mr president, the single market is europe's greatest achievement, a true multiplier of freedom and possibilities for us all. however, in times of crisis, the latter is too often the victim of national reflexes and egos. what's the proof? in the face of the energy crisis, instead of pooling our efforts and creating a european sovereign fund which would give us greater strategic autonomy and protect all our citizens, some are arguing only in favour of national aid. but national-only responses risk exacerbating divisions and fragmentation of the market. it is a complete illusion to think that each for himself will be able to alleviate the gigantic crises that await us. in 2022, the cost of national barriers in our market was 300 billion, a loss of 2% of gdp. in 1988, mr cecchini wrote a report on the cost of non-marketing; i think we should write a new report on the cost of not having a single market. we must also be more efficient in applying market rules by taking a lead from competition policy. this is another good reason to amend the treaties and reform our union.
mr president, madam minister, welcome, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the single market is and remains an achievement to be defended. but now we must put the real economy and small and mediumsized enterprises back at the centre and not speculative finance and large multinationals. after brexit, covid and ukraine, it is becoming increasingly clear that we need to shorten value chains; bring strategic production back to europe; protect the quality of our goods; demand from third countries, starting with china, the same standards as ours; standardise customs procedures; reduce taxes; reduce bureaucracy and hyper-regulation and invest in skills. and in the face of anti-inflation plans such as the american one, we must imagine common instruments and not responses that benefit only a few, destroying the internal market. only then can it still be an added value and not lead to new inequalities and unfair competition.
mr president we celebrate, but we know very well that the single market is still not working perfectly. the benefits are unevenly distributed, with some member states and their companies benefiting more than others. one study estimates that the current relaxation of state aid rules will benefit french and german companies by 80 percent. the commission should guarantee that everyone has a fair chance in the single market. this principle has been violated by the mobility package and the regulation of posted workers, and now with regard to subsidies. furthermore, by withholding eu funds from hungary and poland, the commission is putting those countries at a disadvantage in the single market, and by blocking erasmus, it is also putting young people at a disadvantage. it is doing all this at a time when war and sanctions have sent energy prices soaring, inflation soaring at an inhumane rate and the machinations of our competitors - see the us green protectionist policy - are already weakening europe's competitiveness. i believe that this is contrary to the commission's mandate. please, madam commissioner, do what you can to put an end to this illegal situation and to allow hungarians and poles to compete on equal terms in the single market.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am a child of the 1990s, raised with the single market as we know it today: the european union is a global economy with almost 500 million consumers, immense mobility between european member states and no more border controls. my region, west flanders in belgium, has grown thanks to the european single market. suddenly, it became possible to trade goods in the neighbouring countries and elsewhere in the eu without many obstacles. the trade in agri-food products in particular has not been a winning strategy for us. it is not for nothing that we are today called the vegetable garden of europe. that is thanks to the single market. we are immensely proud of that. many people know the single market best from the food on our plates. colleagues, we cannot rest on our laurels now. it is our duty to keep the single market as healthy as possible in the future. i am convinced that it is and will remain the glue of our cooperation as europeans. and that's what our approach to every crisis is. for example, with the rise of big tech, we're deepening our digital single market, since the pandemic, our health union, and now our energy and our defense union are top of mind. so let us, on this 30th anniversary, be more aware than ever that the internal market is the foundation of our peaceful european cooperation, but above all it is also a boost to the creation of wealth and a lever to strengthen the union's position in the world.
mr president, madam minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the internal market - everyone has said this here - is the heart of the european union, it is the platform. you called her all sorts of things. yeah, it's like a house: the base, the foundation. but it's not just the foundation that's important. it's how we build. that is why i think it is good to think 30 years from now: how to modernise the internal market, how to make it strong in global competition, how can we make those rights, enshrined in the treaty: the free movement of workers and the free movement of goods, exist? i'm not going to use the term single market that you used because, from my point of view, as a romanian, it's not a single market, it's a domestic market, but it's not a single market. so i hope that sweden has the ambition to merge the two now fragmented segments: the schengen and non-schengen market. and i also think, commissioner, that it is very important how we defend, how we protect the internal market. i therefore believe that the commission should present a report on the implementation of the unfair practices directive, because we know very well that we still have problems with imports from third countries which create unfair competition for producers. and then, and a safety for consumer protection. i believe that we all have an obligation: the member states, the commission, the council, parliament and, ultimately, the citizens, to protect the internal market, because it is good for everyone.
mr president, madam executive vice-president, madam minister, the european single market is undoubtedly one of the greatest projects and successes of the european union. a market of some 450 million consumers applying harmonised rules in almost all areas is the greatest asset of us european citizens. free movement makes the exchange of goods much easier, but we must move on to finalising this great project, which is not complete: without free movement of people, for the trains that carry these goods, which are at the internal borders. the waves of immigrants, then the covid-19 pandemic, have caused many states to reinstate controls, and even after the real danger has passed, free movement has been much harder to return to normal. even so, the fact that not all eu countries are included in the schengen area, as is the case in my country, romania, creates great difficulties for the economy and producers of the countries which, although they are members of the union, are still held at the border of the european union, but also for those who transport goods in these countries. a free movement of goods cannot exist without the same freedom of citizens. for the european single market to be a real success, we need all member states to be a real part of the european union. if we want a single market, we must remove these last obstacles.
mr. president, pope francis said that we live in a throwaway culture, and he meant the sick, the elderly, and the unwanted in society. we also face a culture - or not - of excessive waste generation and accumulation that pollutes and burdens our planet. we even trade in waste, so we are talking about the internal market for waste shipments. often, there is a great deal of money involved in waste, especially if it is disposed of improperly and illegally. i therefore believe that this area of trade and shipment of waste out of the place of origin should be regulated in depth and that its implementation should be monitored correctly and effectively. but we can no longer allow waste to be a source of quick profit and wealth at the expense of polluting our planet.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the waste shipment regulation is important legislation to protect both the environment and human health, but at the same time it has enormous potential to accelerate the union's transition to the circular economy. the transport of waste is an activity which requires clear rules and adequate controls. unfortunately, even today, between 15 and 30% of shipments are made illegally. this is a completely unacceptable situation which this regulation seeks to remedy. we remember well how china's decision to no longer accept plastic waste has had a strong impact on our ability to manage it properly. the text adopted by the envi committee, which provides for a gradual limitation of their export, wants this not to happen again. instead, the aim is to create a steering wheel both for designing more sustainable products and for further developing our recycling capacity. the export of our waste to the third world can no longer be the solution, and it must not be, but we must move towards the circular economy without delay and this regulation is a decisive step forward.
mr president, commissioner, as you are well aware, illegal shipments of waste have reached alarming levels within the european union and are having serious and long-term consequences for public health and the environment. this situation needs to be corrected urgently and i hereby express my firm support for the ambitious agreement reached in the envi committee on the revision of the legislation on waste shipments, which includes clear and strict rules to combat illegal waste traffic. i also support the central role that the european anti-fraud office should play in transnational investigations. strengthening cooperation between member states, tightening the sanctions regime to deter criminal activities in this area and finally draw attention to the urgent need to create the european action plan to combat illegal shipments of waste, in order to ensure our success in the fight against this phenomenon.
mr president, the 30th anniversary of the single market is a time of celebration for some and a time of sad remembrance for others. because three decades later, in this market, theoretically unique, offering, we are told, equal opportunities and responsibilities, there are member states that are still victims of the double standard. take my country, for example. although romania has been playing by the rules for 16 years, respecting the single market and european companies present on its territory, our economy does not benefit from all the development opportunities, because another member state is allowed to play dirty political games and to illegally oppose our entry into schengen. or romanian farmers, although hit today by the same crises as the rest of the union, plus the border war that brought them bankruptcy at the gate of the farm, they have to cope and be competitive, with subsidies that remain well below the european average. again for political reasons. on this anniversary day, therefore, i remind the council and the european commission that the double standard creates two distinct markets insofar as all have responsibilities but only some have opportunities.
mr president, we are celebrating 30 years of the single market. but what defines the single market? these are the four fundamental freedoms of the european union: freedom of movement, freedom of goods, freedom of capital and services. however, we see how two of these fundamental rights of romanians are being denied, because although since june 2010 the european commission has been asking the council to accept romania into the schengen area, through political games extremely alien to the european spirit, twenty million romanian citizens are being kept away from the free movement of the european union. it is unacceptable that a chancellor like neihammer, an anti-european, blackmails a country of 20 million romanian citizens. i have here a document published on december 19th, the last day of the european union council, which calls on austria to respect the schengen area. but here we are already discussing other matters which have nothing in common with the european spirit and i ask the swedish presidency to put the enlargement of the schengen area on the agenda.
mr president, commissioner, it is almost a year since the war between ukraine and russia led to the loss of human lives. and it's not just ukrainians and minorities who are dying there. my country helped, received millions of ukrainians and helped ukraine. what 's the reward ? president zelenskyy promulgates a law, although he was warned, and i took these steps, not to promulgate the law that prohibits minorities, romanians, over 400,000, from speaking and learning in the romanian language. yesterday, romania celebrated the day of culture and the day of its greatest poet, mihai eminescu, an internationally known poet, born in cernauti, which is now ukrainian land, once romanian. the romanians there couldn't organize anything, they can't talk. the romanian priests are getting their churches closed. i ask the european commission to verify the accession agreement. i voted for ukraine's accession agreement. there's a point there that calls for respect for minority rights. no longer does mr. president zelenskyy respect this. and let's not confuse war with minority rights. i dressed in white as a sign of peace, but i fight for my romanians there to have their rights respected.
mr president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, considering the severe increase in adverse effects after the covid-19 vaccines, including many debts, i urge the european parliament and the european commission to create a big pharma victim reparation fund. similar funds were created for those who suffer from pollution of different companies under the principle that polluters pay. on 28 april 2021, in this plenary commissioner didier reynders said when he referred to the digital green certificate, and i quote, ‘we do not yet have full scientific evidence about the effects of the vaccines, but we cannot wait for all these questions to be answered to start taking action’. we see now the adverse effects of these vaccines, which without any doubt are creating many problems for many people, incapacitated many of them, and nevertheless killing some of them. i urge you, therefore, to support the creation of such a fund so the innocent people who were vaccinated can be compensated.
mr president, the 16th congress of the polisario front, the legitimate representative of the sarawi people, is currently being held in the dakhla refugee camp. for 50 years this people have waged a heroic struggle against the illegal occupation of their territory by the kingdom of morocco, which is imposing on western sahara the last colonization in africa, through violent repression and the imprisonment of activists who are fighting to end the illegal occupation of their homeland. we must put an end to this occupation by enforcing international law, the principles of the united nations charter, the relevant un resolutions and the agreements signed. the connivance of those who, like the european union and the united states, are in agreement with the disregard for the national rights of the sarawi people and the illegal exploitation of their wealth by the moroccan authorities must be stopped. we hereby express our full solidarity with the sarawi people and their cause, for the right to self-determination, liberation of the occupied territories and the guarantee of a free, independent and sovereign western sahara. certain that sooner or later the sarawi people will win.
mr president, i would like to raise a question which is a major problem for the internal market. it's the spread of livestock diseases and the conditions under which they are kept. last week, the czech republic confirmed its sixth outbreak of avian influenza this year. the incidence of avian influenza is the highest in its history in the european union. this outbreak in one of the large hive nurseries in the czech republic caused the loss of 750,000 nurseries. these hens laid up to 600,000 eggs a day, or 18.5 million eggs a month. it's not a big farm anymore, but it's just manufacturing. this example shows how risky animal meat farming is. in the big cities, of course, the flu will spread immediately. these chickens have lower immunity, higher resistance to antibiotics. i don't need to remind you that the conditions in cage-raised hens are unacceptable, where supposedly more should be done to prevent the spread of disease, but this is where these chickens were killed. so we're looking to the european commission to come up with new pan-european legislation to ban cage-breeding.
mr president, electricity is one of the essential products that cannot be missing from our lives at the present time, whether we are talking about our private or professional lives. the price of this energy is felt in all the products and services we need. the current russian-induced crisis has led to far too high energy prices, and hard-working people have become unable to afford a decent life. but we have to recognize that the energy market, as it is regulated at the moment, allows a very large margin for speculation. the increase is not entirely due to the gas crisis or the war russia has started in ukraine, and we should not accept the speculation that creates so many problems in society. market regulation needs to be reviewed and measures to keep the price of energy affordable for all citizens must be binding on all eu countries. because we are here, my dear colleagues, to protect all european citizens, regardless of the country or region in which they live.
madam president, mr prime minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the new swedish centre-right government is called upon to lead the council at a time when the tragic consequences of the war in ukraine are still being felt. together we must increase our ability to defend ourselves against external threats. we must find concrete solutions to tackle illegal immigration, starting with the next extraordinary council on 9 and 10 february, focusing on the external dimension, secure borders and returns. in the face of the american anti-inflation measures, we must support the competitiveness of our firms with innovative instruments and not with old recipes harmful to the internal market. we must secure the supply of energy and raw materials, favouring domestic production and supplies from friendly countries, and make the green transition more economically and socially sustainable. with concreteness and pragmatism it can be done. good work.
madam president, mr prime minister, the right wing is back in power in sweden and the europeans are already the beneficiaries. stockholm made it clear very quickly: its presidency of the european union will not be the one of the distribution of migrants. after decades of openness and unlimited acceptance, to the point that one fifth of the country's population was born abroad, the fact is now clear: the number of robberies, rapes, murders, not to mention grenade attacks on police stations, has exploded. the experience of multiculturalism and mass immigration, even in one of the most generous countries in the world, has been a bitter failure that has turned some cities from a scandinavian paradise into authentic afghan suburbs. to put his country in order, he must first prevent the additional arrival of migrants. mr prime minister, here are some ideas to develop during your presidency of the european union. instead of welcoming illegal immigrants, we should expel them. instead of disarming frontex, give it a real mission and real means to protect our borders. instead of applauding ngos that are complicit in human trafficking, we should point the finger at them and punish them. sweden is finally coming to its senses. let us hope that brussels will one day follow suit.
the swedish presidency is taking over at a crucial historical moment. we must continue to work, for example, for a greener europe, which confirms its global leadership in the ecological transition, climate neutrality by 2050 and a net emission reduction of at least 55% by 2030. we're not stopping, we're not going backwards. the european union must also take action to combat the spread of the disease. you cannot ignore this need. you cannot postpone the work on the migration pact beyond 2024. this approach is unacceptable. europe cannot remain hostage to right-wing vetoes, harming its own citizens and blocking common solutions. finally, as rapporteur for the regulation on artificial intelligence, i look forward to negotiating with you, together with my colleague tudorache, but know that parliament will stand firm in defending the rights of individuals against all forms of mass biometric surveillance and will not accept any downward trade-offs. good work to all of us for a europe that is more united, stronger and closer to its citizens.
madam president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, the swedish presidency will be a decisive half-year in completing some of the key issues of this legislature which is entering its final phase. i am thinking in particular of the directives on energy efficiency and renewable energy, which are essential instruments for getting rid of russian gas and lowering energy prices and on which the presidency will have to maintain a high level of ambition. the renewed focus on trade, a strategic issue in the light of the historical moment we are living through, is certainly a positive one. only by diversifying our sources of supply and resisting the temptation to close ourselves off from the world can we combine freedom with sovereignty and cope with the shortages that have plagued us in recent months. but here, let me tell you, the good news ends. the european parliament has been very active in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be very active in this area. a common management of flows is the only solution to a challenge which is at stake for the very future of our union.
madam president, dear vice-president, dear prime minister, obviously your presidency must continue to develop policies relating to the priorities of our societies, such as the fight against inflation or climate change. but i would like to focus today on an outstanding issue which, if we do not resolve it, will have negative consequences in the medium and long term: migration policy and, in particular, ways of encouraging legal migration. all the studies show that europe needs additional manpower. with political will, we have moved towards the health union and the energy union. let us do the same with the common immigration policy. it is therefore necessary to approve the migration and asylum pact now, but above all to develop legal migration channels and, in particular, the directives on the single permit and the status of longterm residents. we in parliament are working fast to achieve this and we count on the swedish presidency's drive to start political negotiations with the council and the commission as soon as possible. dear president, dear vice president, dear prime minister, have a safe, healthy and sustainable year.
madam president, dear prime minister, many priorities: ukraine, energy, migration, economy. many important debates and decisions to come. i’m confident you will fulfil your objectives and, together with many of my colleagues, you have our support for doing that. but i wish to put on your political radar, just like my colleague did a few minutes ago, the issue of schengen for romania and bulgaria. because whatever happened at the jha council in december erodes the very logic of how the council works, we had over the years many examples of member states abusing unanimity, playing their vetoes for political gain. but, at the end of the day, there was always a trade-off that allowed the majority to prevail, that allowed reason to prevail. in december we didn’t have that. we had a member state that simply said ‘no’, that accepted no evidence, no facts, no arguments, that ignored all efforts by the presidency, by the commission, by fellow member states to find solutions. in fact, it wanted no solution. and such a willingness to compromise the precedent erodes the council’s cohesion and pushes european citizens to lose faith in how europe serves them. you must now work to reverse this precedent, and the sooner you do this, the better. this parliament has been a consistent advocate for completing schengen integration. you can count on our support in the months to come.
i have to say, madam president, digitalisation and artificial intelligence: driving more innovation and opportunities in europe. but respect for digital fundamental rights must be a part of this from the outset. but after reading the swedish presidency's work programme, i have to say again that the digital agenda is not particularly prominent. the e-privacy regulation is only mentioned in the margins, almost in a stepmotherly way. and it's high time that e-privacy becomes a real priority. because we need an agreement so we can rely on the confidentiality of our communications. we need legal certainty for businesses in europe and for people who want to communicate without fear of their messages being intercepted and browsing the internet without being profiled. and so my urgent appeal is: let's take the commitment to protect digital fundamental rights seriously and finally finalize the eprivacy regulation.
madam president, prime minister, thank you for coming, vice-president šefčovič, i would like to congratulate you, mr prime minister, that anti-money laundering is also one of your priorities under your presidency. it is definitely also a priority for this house, much more so after qatargate and the realisation that this parliament is not immune to corruption. the eu’s hands—off approach towards dirty money has only yielded scandals. the time has come to crack down on it. the eu must be bolder than ever if it wants to put an end to its complicity towards illicit finance. it needs a new anti-money—laundering authority to put an end to economic nationalism, to make sure russian oligarchs pay for their complicity in the crimes that are being committed in ukraine. this new authority will be a game—changer. an eu—wide supervisor able to utilise financial intelligence too. thanks to it, the eu will no longer be a laundromat for tax evaders and other criminals. i look very much forward to working with you, with the swedish presidency, to make this vision a reality. let’s get it done.
madam president, presidency, commission, security, effective management, operational and strategic cooperation. do not be misguided. these words are not about enhanced cooperation on defence. these come from the swedish presidency intentions on the asylum and migration pact. and i’m aware of the political background of the swedish government and i did not expect many nice words. nevertheless, i think it is important to emphasise that we are always talking about people, people like all of us here. dehumanising them leads to crowded refugee camps, pushbacks, even shooting at our borders. dehumanising them leads to unfounded fears in our society instead of the solidarity we need. and only by including humanity and solidarity in our european asylum and migration policy, we can come out better and stronger together. and i notice that the rule of law and fundamental rights are priorities of the presidency, and i applaud that. but i will ask you: be consistent and make these values also central in all your work, not only when electorally convenient. having said this, i wish you all the best and look forward to a fruitful cooperation.
madam president, mr prime minister, i come from romania and it will not surprise you that i will be talking about schengen. for me and for millions of romanians and bulgarians, the blocking of legitimate access to schengen at the end of last year was a huge disappointment, which may have incalculable consequences if the issue is not actively addressed and concluded in the coming months. i expect the new presidency to correct this injustice with tact, through proactive mediation, with realistic solutions to the blockages that still persist, especially from austria and the netherlands. otherwise, any discussion about european solidarity will be treated with mistrust and will have the exact opposite effect on romanian citizens who have shown not only solidarity but also deep attachment to the values of the european union. the negotiations on an agreement on asylum and migration policy should not block the access and the legitimate and legal right of romanian and bulgarian citizens to be part of the schengen area. and i think that with political will there are all the prerequisites for accession to be decided in the coming months, by the end of this presidency.
in writing. madam president, mr prime minister, mr vice president congratulations to the swedish government. the programme for the swedish presidency of the european union for the first half of 2023 is ambitious, well thought out, timely and reasonable. it is ambitious because, in response to and beyond the war in our immediate neighbourhood, it is boldly talking about longer-term vision, such as the need to invest in innovation, climate policy, and strengthening the european economy and competitiveness. the conservative government has thought carefully about what europe and the people of europe need today. this is why security, which is both internal and external, including food and energy security, and the eu's 30-year internal market, where we can freely do business, shop and travel, need to be renewed. i am confident that we will find common ground on many issues to make eu policies, the legal framework for businesses, institutions and citizens, better as soon as possible. this includes the draft directive on asset recovery and confiscation, on which we have already started negotiations, and as rapporteur for parliament i thank the swedish presidency for its high priority on this subject. finally, i ask the swedish presidency to do everything possible to ensure that the common protection of the external borders is fully achieved by the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area, in view of the security priority.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, commissioner, and members of the council! the coronavirus pandemic has actually been with us for three years. we as the european union have been able to avert the worst of the initial difficulties, and the measures taken to combat the coronavirus pandemic have also led to a decline in other seasonal diseases, such as rs, which is particularly dangerous for infants, and other viruses, including influenza viruses. it is therefore not surprising that with the relaxation of the corona measures, infectious diseases are now re-emerging and finding their way into society, especially in the winter months. but what we've seen in the last few weeks and months, alongside other corona infections, alongside the flu wave -- particularly the dramatic rise in rs infections -- is actually worrying. we are reaching the limit of preventive and therapeutic treatment, both in the pediatric clinics and in adults. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health and safety of workers is not compromised. and there are, as i just mentioned, dramatic drug shortages. i can therefore only repeat the demands we have made here in this house, also on the proposal of my group: the european production of key products in the pharmaceutical industry must be strengthened, it must take place here. we need a resilient healthcare industry. we need supplies for hospitals, for doctors' offices, here from europe - not least in view of the fact that china, as my colleague before me has already mentioned, is holding back medicines in particular and is no longer exporting them. so we have to stop saying we need action to bring manufacturing back here and do it here. we must finally act, and that requires the european commission's proposal for a strategy on medicines. this would be the key to our being able to stand together as europe, as we did during the coronavirus pandemic. we are united in diversity, and together we are always stronger. we are looking forward to your proposal, commissioner.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the current situation is alarming and i understand the anger of the citizens. on the one hand, the increase in respiratory viruses puts european emergency services in an extremely precarious situation and, on the other hand, citizens are facing shortages of medicines, a direct consequence of the laissez-faire policy applied for years to the pharmaceutical industry. what was the result? massive relocation of drug production, shortages, patients not receiving the necessary care and a frightening lack of information for public authorities to act. by leaving the private sector in charge, public authorities, both national and european, have given way to the systematic commercialisation of public health. the result is the situation we have today, where the health of citizens is at risk. i would therefore like the commission and the council to comment on the measures they are planning, first in the short term, to support public health services immediately and to stock up on essential medicines, but also in the longer term to ensure more transparency in the drug production chains, so that public authorities can act upstream of shortages and not just in reaction. and finally, the possibility of creating a european public entity responsible for producing a minimum of essential medicines so that there is always a safety net.
for the group the left. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is the system itself and all the changes we are making to it are purely cosmetic and do not solve it. the current legislative state allows for a number of measures that can at least mitigate drug shortages. let me remind you that the commission already came up with a new pharmaceutical strategy for europe years ago, in which it stressed the need to bring some of the pharmaceutical production back into the eu. however, neither it nor the member states have indicated who is to pay. and so for years nothing happens. there is also a need to discuss the general incorporation of medicines into european union law. today, medicines are treated as ordinary commodities, like sugar, salt and flour, and are therefore subject to the rules of the common market and the principle of supply and demand. and that just has to change! we need to eliminate drugs from the free movement of goods and regulate more movement. after all, i proposed it back in 2018. in some member states, they have now discovered to their horror that there are no central registers to allow a person to see in which particular pharmacies the medicine is available and in which it is not. a system to enable this has been proposed by myself and my colleagues - some of whom are sitting here - in the new ema mandate. again, this was rejected on the grounds that such a register would create an excessive administrative burden. then there is the absolutely unsatisfactory, even tragic, regulation of european union patent law, which is set up to produce only what is the highest margin. the right doesn't want to talk about it. so we just keep falling over, and we have and we will have drug shortages until we change the system. it's up to us, colleagues, the proposals here, it's up to us to have the courage to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, italy is experiencing a temporary shortage of over 3 000 medicines and other member states are facing similar problems. the causes are not just increased demand for covid-19 waves, influenza viruses and respiratory infections, but also production bottlenecks related to higher energy costs, more expensive raw materials and supply chain difficulties. several european countries continue to have a problem of dependence on foreign countries for access to pharmaceuticals and medical devices. there is a concentration of production in third countries, with china and india at the forefront. it is therefore a priority to accelerate the achievement of the objectives of the european pharmaceutical strategy to help the sector increase production and autonomy in the union. immediate action should be taken with coordinated measures at union level to obtain, exchange and distribute medicines needed by each member state, to ensure strategic stocks and to combat any speculation in order to secure certain pharmaceutical treatments. don't leave anyone behind. we need a united and european response.
mr. president, mrs. kyriakides, it's 2023 and it's like we're back where we started. cases of influenza and respiratory viruses have exploded all over europe. pharmacies and hospitals are running out of basic medicines. have we learned nothing from the hard months of the pandemic? in romania, in the middle of the cold season, there is a shortage of medicines such as antibiotics, antivirals, anti-inflammatories. and that's as the number of cases is increasing, not just of influenza, but of influenza along with covid. hospitals are almost full, full. in constanta, the pediatric section of the infectious diseases hospital has no more beds available at this time. how do we manage to be always unprepared when it's respiratory infection season? we can't joke about people's health anymore. this is about the integrity and good name of the european union. in my country the situation is clear. people are demanding decent medicine and hospitals. we want reserves. we want europe to be united. europe must help us now.
mr president, dear colleagues. is the european commission part of the solution or part of the problem when it comes to shortage of medication in europe? this is the question that we must that we must ask now when the european commission is asking for more power on handling medical crisis. handling the covid pandemic, prove that the european commission is not the solution, but the cause of many problems on dealing with health crisis. while the focus of the commission was to purchase astronomical quantities of alleged anti-covid vaccines, people could not find antivirals or antibiotics in the european pharmacies. now we have a flu season and we debate again about shortage of different medicines, most notably antibiotics. this debate is the proof that the european commission is not the solution, but the cause of many problems all across europe. the best thing the european commission can do is to prevent the formation of medical monopolies and cartels and let the national states act in the best interests of their citizens.
mr president, we see all these statistics coming from the european commission, from international organisations and from the governments of the member states, and they are worrying, as are the consequences. romania, for example, ended 2022 with a 22 percent increase in food prices, which translated into the gradual disappearance of some food products from stores and even the blocking of the european program for the distribution of fruits, vegetables, milk and dairy products in schools in almost half of the country. farmers simply could not keep up with prices and some of them stopped producing milk. the problem is that over 40% of romanian children are at risk of poverty and social exclusion, and the school lunch has cut off many from perhaps the only source of protein or even the daily food they had. and the forecast for 2023 shows us a 15% increase in the number of romanians living in absolute poverty. and i ask you, commissioner, do you see any real solution in solving this crisis that deprives children of the food they need?
madam president, the reports are a manual for the escalation of imperialist wars, which the peoples pay for with their blood. the european union, nato and the united states are stepping up coordination in their competition with russia and china. the division between democratic and authoritarian forces is a distinctive feature of the system, all of them capitalist. the area of conflict between monopolies is not only ukraine but also taiwan, the south-eastern mediterranean, the balkans and other regions. the lifting of the veto and the announced european security and defence councils are instruments for conducting military operations, for sending arms and troops to the front, and for imposing new sanctions. the greek government is involved in these dangerous projects together with the other bourgeois parties. the european union, which is an ally, considers the turkish bourgeoisie a strategic partner and in practice encourages unacceptable challenges to borders and sovereign rights in its competition with the greek bourgeoisie. the people in a state of alert must oppose imperialist plans and wars, co-operation in the aegean and the seizure of energy resources by monopolies.
madam president, high commissioner, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs for the cfsp and csdp reports, mr mcallister and mr vandenkendelaere, for their excellent work. they managed to cover a very challenging year from a foreign and security perspective. our security has been directly challenged. a new war has emerged in our neighbourhood. china continues to play an assertive role in the pacific. as the report rightly states, we need stronger eu-nato cooperation and updated european peace facility and a boost for our relations with international partners. regarding the western balkans, the eu stepped up its engagement on the enlargement agenda and i very warmly welcome the decision to grant candidate status to bosnia and herzegovina. it is a peace and security decision as well. however, this candidate status is not the end of the ride, but should stimulate the domestic leaders to speed up the reform process. because even after the welcome change of the electoral law last october, croats still don’t have their elected representative with the presidency – and that affects the voting. don’t forget the voting in the un when they abstained on a crucial european security issue and the vote against iran, damaging policy. as mentioned in the csfp report, it is time to show the principles of equality and non-discrimination for all citizens and constituent people as enshrined in the country’s constitution. that is a major security issue, mr high representative.
madam president, this report reflects the annual evaluation by the european parliament of the implementation of the eu common security and defence policy, and is the first after the russian invasion of ukraine and the adoption of the eu strategic compass. in an era of threats and aggression, the future of the eu depends on our commitment to defend our common values through an eu defence union, by taking those specific concrete steps forward, including joint actions and capacity, and always having international law as the core of our common rules and our common implementation mechanisms. a last word, the defence of the union is a necessary condition to achieve our social, environmental and economic goals. and also this, we send a strong message to put in that we do not accept the violation of international law and also the violation of ukraine’s sovereign rights. and this applies to everyone. that’s why we also condemn erdogan’s aggressive and illegal actions against eu and in particular against cyprus and greece in the eastern mediterranean.
madam president, the cruel attack of russia against ukraine has shown that our member states can make prompt decisions on our common security policy. europe is not weak. we have to have a unified front in critical issues. this is what our citizens want. in a recent polling, over 80% of the eu citizens are in favour of common eu security and defence policy and think that cooperation should be increased. today, ukraine is fighting for peace and democracy for all of us. we have to help them by sending leopard 2 battle tanks, on which we greens have made a proposal to this report. we need a european coalition to deliver these tanks to ukraine swiftly, and german leadership in this shared action. and we have to think even further ahead in security policy as, for example, even with the swift decision, the delivery of these tanks will take some time. the eu has to take strong leadership in decisions vital to ukraine and to the eu’s own security. our member states have to be ready and able to respond to this war that threatens our values and global peace. we cannot rely on the united states. the eu needs to take a stronger and more determined role in its own security. this report matters, but the support that we can give to ukraine immediately matters even more. thank you, colleagues, for working together on this.
president, the eu and nato have aggressively expanded eastwards. in this enlargement they have not taken russia on board as a possible partner. moreover, they have not taken into account russia's security interests. a truly independent europe is a europe that includes russia. the eu is now facing a strong alliance of countries such as china, russia, india, iran, turkey and saudi arabia, which are abandoning the dollar. the eu is a great power that is being destroyed by sanctions against russia and military aid to ukraine. the member states give away money and arms, but without gas they destroy their industry. the eu is becoming a dwarf in a multipolar world and the citizens are paying the bill. the commission must turn the tide. take turkey, which is now mediating in this conflict, for example. stop stirring up trouble and start a war. an eu for citizens is an eu that seeks peace.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their reports. we are, of course, facing a very complex geopolitical scenario. russia's aggression against ukraine has brought the war back to european soil. we should continue our aid to ukraine and do more to ensure that most countries in the international community not only contain the aggression but also join the sanctions against russia, especially those close to us. i think of the balkans, latin america or north africa. the war has also highlighted the need for transatlantic cooperation. the rapporteur, mr mcallister, is quite right when he says that there should be regular annual summits with the united states. the last was in june 2021, with the declaration 'towards a renewed transatlantic partnership' and the launch, for example, of the trade and technology council. we need another summit this year to deepen relations, to solve problems - for example, the so-called law against inflation - and to achieve greater coordination in foreign policy through the creation of the transatlantic political council that this parliament is calling for. in the field of defence policy, we also have the strategic compass, but the scenario has changed radically with the war in russia and we should update it.
mr president, dear high representative, dear colleagues, i would like to take this opportunity to thank mr mcallister for his comprehensive approach on this report on the eu’s foreign, security and defence policy. it is of paramount importance and it is of paramount importance in preserving peace and reinforcing international security. it is clear that eu has learned from its previous geostrategic mistakes and this is evident in the way it has responded to the russian war of aggression against ukraine. the eu’s unified and sustained response is testament to the effectiveness of the eu’s foreign, security and defence policy, which is guided by our shared values. but it is not time to stop. the world is watching us and in order to be a credible actor and maintain the respect of autocracies around the world, the eu and its member states need to increase their military, political and humanitarian assistance to ukraine and strengthen their defence in countering russian threats to ukraine’s security.
mr president the european union is facing unprecedented times of war and instability, which require strategic thinking. unfortunately, this is not reflected in the reports we are discussing, which in many cases seem more like activist ngos than considered. they can be harmful both to the ep and to the union's foreign policy as a whole. just one example of this is the unprecedented and undignified criticism of the enlargement commissioner in the foreign affairs report. he is a key figure in the eu's renewed drive for enlargement. strengthening cooperation between member states in the field of common policies is a key issue. proposals to abolish the unanimity rule are contrary not only to the treaties but also to the fundamental interests of the union. the introduction of majority voting is in fact in the interest of only a few larger member states, while it would seriously undermine the sovereignty interests of smaller states and mutual solidarity. preserving unity is really about preserving the principle of unity in diversity, of cooperation based on good faith. i have to stand up for him.
mr president, mr high representative, first of all, congratulations to the colleagues who worked on these documents. the brutal war in ukraine marked the past year and exposed several of our shortcomings that we need to address and in many ways we reacted in a positive, unprecedented way. despite many challenges and some countries regressing, i am particularly content that the enlargement policy is being mainstreamed again. in the past year, three countries became candidate countries. one was given a european perspective. one applied for the membership and two more finally began their negotiations. this is a good example of recognising political realities and necessities and moving things forward. we should apply this approach further. so my main conclusion would be that in the ever-challenging global environment, including a war on our continent, our answer should be ‘more europe’. it’s time to reform our common foreign security and defence policies so that they are no longer the weakest link of our integration.
mr president, we can take pride in these reports and i congratulate the rapporteurs and the shadows for their work on them. they capture the complexities of our posture in foreign affairs as well as in building a stronger architecture for security and defence. if i am to think about all the pressing issues that lie ahead and select only one long-term goal to solve them, i would make a pledge for a true and credible defence union accompanied by a rejuvenated defence industry. we keep speaking about the role of the eu in the world, our partners, our liabilities and dependencies about strategic autonomy and, of course, about the war on our borders. a defence union would give a sense to all that it would strengthen eu’s position in foreign affairs, its capacity to act quickly, decisively, to be taken seriously both by the actors we want to partner with and by those challenging us. a defence union is not built in a day, but we must set it as a goal along with the milestones that can render us step by step more resilient.
mr. chairman, mr. vice president, a year ago, on february 15th, i should say, we were in this room debating the annual foreign policy report for 2021. 9 days later, mr. borrell, russia is attacking ukraine. the whole fate of europe has changed after this diabolical conflict started by putin, i felt it on my own skin. in my house, three ukrainian women and six children lived for almost four months, because we felt that we had to be in solidarity with these innocent people, affected by the victims of this murderous war. we must stand together and administer a lesson to this putin who must be brought to justice and account for every innocent victim of this diabolical conflict.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we need this special tribunal to be able to judge the crime of aggressive war. i am confident that if our governments and the commission have the political will, our legal experts will find a suitable framework for this. on the way there, we need to help ukraine secure the evidence. this must be done on a large scale and on a large scale, and it must also be ensured that this is dealt with and worked out in a manner that respects the rule of law. i think perhaps you can also borrow from an institution that we had in germany during the gdr period. this was a so-called central recording office, which was in the city of salzgitter. it has recorded all the crimes of the gdr, where people were detained, tortured or unjustly sentenced. these people, when they came to the west, could have names, places, facts registered, and after reunification, the people who were the perpetrators, if possible, were also sentenced. we should also move in this direction: register all the names, including those on the russian side, of those involved in this war of aggression, and in this way, in due course, help the rule of law to be vindicated.
madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, i wish to start by giving my full support to establishing a tribunal of crime of aggression in ukraine. in this house, i have been calling for it since may. last week’s attacks on civilians in dnipro are the most brutal reminder of why we need to establish this court without delay. the ongoing investigation by the prosecutor of the icc into the situation in ukraine based on war crimes and crimes against humanity is by no means important. but we are also aware of its limitations. it will be crucial that this court has the explicit backing of the united nations and its establishment is closely coordinated with ukraine. as the eu, we have to work towards increasing consensus among international partners and organisations to make this possible. it must be imperative that all those responsible for war crimes are held accountable for their actions. only complete justice can enable the true recovery of ukraine.
madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, accountability is the basis of a society, a mark of its evolution through centuries of civilisation and a fundamental brick in how international relations work. with his invasion of ukraine, putin broke all norms set by law or common sense and, as a result, the people of ukraine have suffered beyond imagination. of course, all crimes committed in this war must be punished and, of course, we must work with and within the un framework to prosecute these crimes. but putin’s russia must also be held to account for its crime of aggression, and for that we must work swiftly to set up a special tribunal and coordinate as much as feasible with the icc. setting up an interim prosecutor’s office in the hague can be a good first step. once again, if we let russia and putin get away with aggression without consequences, it means that we, as a society, have failed. we, as an international body, have failed. we, as citizens demanding respect for basic fundamental rights, have failed. we, as human beings understanding suffering, have failed. so let us do the right thing.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european objectives to achieve the green and digital transitions are well on track. technologically, renewable energy sources are more competitive than fossil fuels and co-legislators have taken the necessary steps to ensure that we reach the targets of 55% by 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050. until now, we may have lacked a thorough reflection on the industrial side of this transition, because this energy and climate transition will only be successful if it translates into a strong, competitive and job-creating european industry. we must jointly address the major risk of deindustrialisation we face, both by addressing the issue of energy costs, which is a driver, and by responding to the important support package that several of our partners have recently put in place, which is acting as a driver. i should like to say that my colleague thierry breton, who has had to leave us, has been warning us of this risk since september. the president of the commission set a very clear course yesterday on a law for a zero-emission industry, to support the emergence of a european clean technology industry. it also clearly called for a pragmatic approach to financing issues around an analysis of needs and european financing to address the risk of fragmentation of the internal market that state aid can generate. this funding could be divided into two phases: first, a bridge funding to act quickly and provide an immediate solution, and then a medium-term sovereignty fund, for a more structural solution in the context of the review of the financial perspective. the commission can count on the european parliament and the member states to strengthen the competitiveness of european industry and protect the integrity of the single market. today's debate confirmed the need to act quickly; we will now work on implementing these different elements, starting at the beginning of february, as part of the commission's contribution to the february european council, because there is no more time to lose for a strong, joint, united response, for the benefit of all europeans and for a clean technology industry made in europe.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you very much for this very interesting debate and for the various points of view on the future of europe’s industry. this debate has confirmed that we face complex challenges, in particular on the issues of high energy prices. i think that we can all agree that eu industry needs affordable, safe and sustainable energy in order to remain globally competitive. at the same time, this debate has shown that europe needs to boost public and private investment, to accelerate the energy transition and to promote clean-tech industry in europe. thirdly, the eu has to diversify its access to technologies and resources, notably the raw material needed for the green transition and transformation of our industry. the discovery of rare earth metals in kiruna in sweden – which was announced last week – is for this purpose very good news. furthermore, we need to build sufficient european production capacity for these technologies. trade policy and further development of a network of strategic partnerships are important instruments in securing a supply at reasonable costs. last but not least, besides the inflation reduction act response, the eu needs a long-term strategy to boost competitiveness and productivity, not least for the smes who are the backbone of the european economy. the single market’s 30th anniversary provides an excellent occasion to launch this work. so again, thank you very much for the debate and for your attention.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the february i, 2023 part-session. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. we are now in a period of historic geopolitical change that should affect the way europe views the further development of european industry and supply chains. this is particularly important in the context of the need to make europe independent of energy supplies such as coal and gas from russia as soon as possible, but also to prevent new dependencies from being created with other parts of the world. in this respect, mention should be made of the import of components necessary for the production of, inter alia, photovoltaic panels or parts needed for the development of wind energy. the further development of european industry and the improvement of its competitiveness will require the production of large quantities of readily available energy and raw materials. at present, one of the main objectives of the union's energy policy is to become independent from russian gas, oil and coal supplies. for this reason, the union should diversify its sources of supply, but also focus on extracting and producing energy from the sources it has at its disposal, including nuclear energy, which guarantees affordable and stable electricity supplies. the role of coal and gas and the own resources of the member states will also be crucial during the transition period and the energy crisis.
in writing. – european policy to boost industrial competitiveness needs to be asserted more forcefully. practices built up over the years need to be overhauled. firstly, industrial manufacturing should be given first or equal priority with other sectors. secondly, all efforts must be unleashed to promote innovation and protect it when of european origin, without preventing the quick adoption of innovation developed outside the single market. thirdly, when industrial areas and projects of european importance have been identified, it should be ensured that they are really launched and not subjected to unnecessary delays. fourthly, better account should be taken of the demands of the green deal on industry in order to assist the latter satisfy such demands without losing competitiveness. as background to all this there must be some revision of state aid rules. our major partners have clear, strong and focused state aid programmes aimed at boosting their prioritised industrial sectors. while the integrity of the single market remains crucial, state aid rules should not be allowed to act as a drag on industrial investment and innovation. this is actually happening, as for semiconductors which supposedly is a priority area for the eu. unfortunately, from the perspective of industrial competitiveness, state aid might have become the tail that wags the dog.
in writing. in a shock of reality, eu forums are turning their attention from the chimera of the 'green transition' to the major challenges of european competitiveness, in a global environment marked by a multitude of crises, but also by protectionist measures by the us and china. it's a shame that it took the u.s. to take action for europe to realize that it was chasing green butterflies instead of stopping its deindustrialization. and what's worse is that instead of taking action, at least for now, the european commission is clinging to baseless blame on washington. the u.s. is doing what it needs to do to secure its industrial production base in the new geopolitical, technological and environmental context. brussels, on the other hand, is flying grandiose plans about 'zero pollution', with no response to our near-total dependence on imports of critical raw materials and a lack of factories for the industries of the future or a highly skilled workforce. the eu should be supporting its businesses in a concrete way, not debating the transformation of the unrealistic 'green deal' into a belated 'green deal industrial plan'. and if a negotiated solution with the us is really wanted, then it must be discussed at a high-level eu-us summit, not left to commission officials.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs sabrina pignedoli, on her excellent report. although i do not want to list all the contents, which she has prepared and elaborated very carefully, the report is really excellent. i would like to make three points: firstly, the issue that concerns us in the katargate area, which is the role of ngos, which is being discussed. i'm someone who's very nuanced. we have ngos that are doing great work and are important to our social order. unfortunately, we are also somewhat off track, commissioner, there is no proper definition of what makes ngos different. we have small regional, we have large corporations that are striving for power, money and political influence. we have underground organizations, and we even have aid organizations like the red cross, which also fall under the heading of ngos, and universities fall under that heading. that covers pretty much everything. so i'm not one to speak in general about ngos, but i am one to say that we need transparency of the money flows in ngos and, which you ultimately also support a little bit, we need transparency in these processes to avoid that shell companies exert undue influence of a political kind or even a criminal kind in the context of corruption or other activities. secondly, the arf. in the area of the arf, i see the difficulty in the fact that the controls are not adequate for the european parliament, but even for the audit authorities in this form. if the commission's internal auditors have no access to the arf and cannot carry out controls, if the court of auditors has limited possibilities of inspecting it and if parliament has no traceability, then the whole operation becomes quite difficult. the arf must not become such an action, because when a lot of money is spent - almost 600 and almost 700 billion euros - there must be proper accountability for efficiency, accuracy and success. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the separation of powers is a fundamental value in the european legal order. so an ethics authority cannot investigate, sanction and also make judgments at the same time. that is outside our legal system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
madam president, the 2021 pif report revealed that the number of cases of fraud and irregularities reported by the competent eu and national authorities remained stable in 2021 compared to 2020. but the value involved rose significantly – from eur 1.46 billion in 2020 to eur 3.24 billion in 2021 – and this is really worrying. detection of fraud and irregularities simply takes too long, averaging from two and a half to three years until they are reported to the commission. we need to work together in order to change this. the eppo and olaf are doing a very good job, but member states also have to improve their detection methods in order to decrease this significant delay. on 1 june 2021, the eppo finally started its operational activities and proved its capabilities and cost-effectiveness, despite the minimal resources and extreme time pressure. although the eppo’s budget for 2021 was less than eur 45 million, they managed to order the seizure of more than eur 250 million in their first year of operations. this means that we – in this house and at home – need to ensure full support and full speed to this institution. it is one of the best performing projects of europe so far. they need money, human resources and trust. let us give them the means and we will all succeed to better counter fraud in the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. historically, right-wing extremism has shown its ugly face and caused much suffering throughout europe, and in parts of europe, left-wing extremism has also caused much suffering. next week we will be celebrating in the european parliament, as is customary and right and especially important year after year, the international holocaust remembrance day, the day of remembrance of the shoah. this shows the historical right-wing extremism, and it also shows that right-wing extremism must alert us, shake us up when such tendencies emerge somewhere in our societies. but it also shows, looking at the present, that we need to examine: is anti-semitism, today, always right-wing extremism? is that sometimes left-wing extremism? yes, it is. is it the misuse of religion, of islam in the form of islamism, of political islam? yes, it is. and it's a field, an important field, perhaps the most important field, that for all fields, it's always extremism, no matter what adjective we put to it, that destroys. it is also a question of the need to ensure that the european union is not the only one to be confronted with the problem of the middle east. we live in a time when this is also being encouraged from outside by disinformation, by attempts to divide our societies. the most recent examples were the migration crisis since 2015, the pandemic, now putin-russia's war against all of us, not just with military means against ukraine, but with means of hybrid warfare against all. we face this threat together. we as the european union are clearly better able to manage the pandemic than other parts of the world. but we have to deal with the migration crisis and many other crises.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in our nation states, in europe and worldwide, the growth of far-right networks and movements and the normalisation and presence of their ideology is more than worrying. i am also very concerned about the trivialization and denial which i have heard in many of the speeches which we have all heard here. extreme right-wingers in brazil are storming the democratic institutions. in germany, right-wing extremists, called reich citizens, planned a coup. we all remember the shocking images from the us storming the capitol. the right-wing extremist movements are a threat to all of us, to the fundamental values of the european union. they propagate and defend ideologies that are incompatible with democracy, with human rights. the european parliament has the responsibility, the duty, to combat political right-wing extremism and all forms of xenophobia, racism, anti-semitism and migration at all levels. we must oppose this rightward shift with all our means, both nationally and internationally. because one thing is clear: right-wing extremist movements have no place in our society, they are not part of our political spectrum. let's make sure they're a cautionary tale in the history books.
madam president, madam minister, commissioner johansson, extremism on any side of the political spectrum is and has been dangerous to society. and now, in these times, all the more so as extremist propaganda has access to modern, globalized media. last year, using communication channels and online social networks, right-wing extremists terrorized the world by attacking the united states capitol -- the symbol of what we thought was the most stable democracy in the world. this year, the same techniques were used by the far right to attack government institutions in brazil. we are dealing with the same pattern of attempts to destabilize democracy, and we need to look not only at the means of communication, but also at the messages that are similar and the way that people are misinformed and manipulated. we are already seeing these messages spread more and more in our countries, in the european union, and we must act as soon as possible to counter the manipulation and transformation of thousands of people into mere tools for the abuse of power.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think this is a very topical issue, because we are seeing that with the technological advancement, those who make a living by promoting hate speech, those who deny evidence, those who disinformation are using these tools extremely effectively. that is why, commissioner johansson, i think it is essential that the european commission comes up with a set of new regulations, because we have a new generation of children and young people exposed to this extremely aggressive wave that threatens european democracy. with the war in ukraine, we saw how much solidarity there is between the gangs who promote conspiracy theories, who question the effort made by european states to fight putin and stand in solidarity with ukraine. so all of these phenomena are extremely dangerous and they must be fought firmly. we cannot remain indifferent to disinformation, to these extremist groups that feed only on hate speech and try to mislead the population and citizens of the european union. it is essential that we create mechanisms through which, through education, we can protect children and the younger generation from this wave, which is increasingly dangerous and represents a real threat to european democracy. i think we need much stronger, much clearer, much better equipped tools to deal with all the challenges that, unfortunately, technological advancement also presents to those who hate democracy and value it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think this is a very topical issue, because when we hear about clandestine meetings with politicians, incitement to violence, destruction of evidence, anti-competitive acts and many other things, which we have observed and have been able to discover with astonishment in thousands of documents published in the uber files, it shows how vulnerable our society is and how important it is that the 1937 directive on the protection of persons reporting breaches of union law works, is implemented exactly as it is in spirit, because people can bring to question, bring to light the illegality that only happens when they feel protected, and i think that this is what european citizens are waiting for: a response from the national institutions, from the governments of european countries, to avoid these laws that we are beside. i'm a believer in dialogue with the business community. i think it's essential for a democratic society, for a society where competition and capital are the key to development, but it's important that the law is respected by all the actors involved. or, these practices that encourage the breaking of the law are downright dangerous for european society. that's why we need very high standards of transparency and enforcement. otherwise, the european union will be faced with a very dangerous enemy, one that adapts itself to break the law.
madam president, the traditional fishery in the black sea is also threatened with extinction. on the romanian coast, as in the danube delta, only a few fishermen still use the ancient techniques, trying to keep this activity alive and to ensure the livelihood of their families and communities. but this way of surviving in perfect harmony with the environment is becoming increasingly complicated. it is a victim of coastal development, the fierce and unfair competition of fishing fleets from neighbouring countries and, more recently, the war in ukraine, which has forced small-scale fishermen to stop fishing. in the black sea, the danger is deadly because of the floating mines and the enormous russian arsenal in the vicinity of romania. our fishermen need help. today's report has solutions to this crisis such as easy access to european and national funding, the creation of local supply chains, better promotion of fishery products, attracting young people and women to the sector and improving working conditions for fishermen. but these measures really need to be implemented and they need to be implemented quickly if we want to be able to talk about traditional fishing in the black sea in the near future.
madam president, commissioner, i think this is an important moment, an important achievement for the european union, and i start from the four freedoms that define the single market - the free movement of persons, the free movement of goods, services and capital. and, of course, these are objectives that put the union on a very solid footing for future generations, but they draw attention to the fact that the two freedoms provided for in the treaty, such as the free movement of persons and goods, are seriously violated by states which, in the council of the european union, reject the enlargement of the schengen area, as happened at the jha council on 8 december last year, when romania and bulgaria were unjustifiably denied this right. the union will be strong when the single market is fully integrated.
madam president, i follow with great interest each year the report on human rights and democracy in the world. as a member of the subcommittee on human rights, i have the responsibility to closely monitor violations of the fundamental rights of individuals. and here i want to bring to your attention a situation that we know very little about, namely the situation of the citizens of the republic of moldova in the area occupied by the russian federation for more than 30 years. in the transnistrian region, every day, thousands of children face a regime that denies them the right to education. i am deeply grateful to them, to the teachers and principals of these schools who are trying to study in the state language of the republic of moldova, and the russian federation does not allow them to do so, because they are a serious case of human rights violation here in europe. more proof that russia has always defied and restricted fundamental freedoms.
mr president, with €300 billion of expected investment, the new european global gateway programme is looking to compete with china, africa's largest trading partner since 2009. but such ambition requires a certain naivety. naivety, first of all, because it is not enough to do, it is necessary to let people know: 59% of africans had, in 2019-2020, a positive opinion of china's influence, this figure dropping to 46% for europeans. a disconcerting result considering our financial and human investment. i am thinking in particular of the french army in the sahel. it was also naive when, for example, a public tender in senegal, co-financed by the european investment bank to the tune of eur 80 million, was won by a chinese company. on this point, we are unfortunately the useful idiots of the rest of the world. the west is also called to the rescue in the case of an african debt that is at least 21% owned by beijing. and while its lending practices are criticized, china seems to be shying away from a possible collective relief effort. in short, europeans must first of all stop working for the king of prussia or, if i may say so, the emperor of china.
the president, commissioner, colleagues. the operational priorities of the global gateway initiative for this year have been defined. the necessary budget is in place and the institutional framework and management have become operational. let's face it, it took a while to roll out the strategy, but it seems to have gone off the rails in terms of execution. we welcome that, but we want to see that this strategy is also given wide attention, in word and in deed. i mean that the political support is there, but what is needed now is to keep all the shareholders informed and mobilised, to keep all the institutions involved connected at european level and to keep the member states actively involved in the private sector. this union's connectivity and investment strategy is a very ambitious and very important undertaking, with a strong geopolitical dimension. we are rightly concerned about being a strong player on a global scale. well, then we need the right tools for that, too. which is why we need to invest in this strategy with every means at our disposal. just as we want to become more strategically independent from third countries, we also strengthen ourselves by working more and better with partners and allies. the paradox is interesting, but above all it teaches us that the global gateway initiative is an essential part of our common foreign policy in the end, including the security aspects. i therefore expressly hope that the strategy will take account of the challenges associated with systemic rivalries on a global scale in general and, of course, with the russian war against ukraine in particular. i am thinking in particular of the countries of the western balkans and our partners in the eastern and southern border regions.
mr president, madam commissioner, dear colleagues, for far too long we have been shy and at times naive about how we deployed our soft power as a union. we have funded projects all over the world, deployed often more development aid than any other foreign donor, and yet achieved little visibility for our investment and not enough political clout. and while we were doing all that, russia was pushing its narratives around the developing world and china was buying true influence and leverage with the belt and road. so yes, it was high time to become pragmatic in our use of money and truly strategic in how and where we spend it. but the global gateway’s success is in the way we implement it. we must map out our interests around the world, coherent to the new geopolitical realities. we must also do better in understanding the real needs of those that we put on this map, reading well the political context of each partner and the realistic space of negotiation and mutual benefit that can be achieved in the relationship. if a bridge is what the country needs, then let’s build a bridge. if it is a railway, then let’s build a railway. but at the same time we must also be agile enough to avoid that we build a bridge where china is buying a strategic harbour. what this means is that the global gateway cannot be implemented as a business—as—usual instrument with bureaucratic spreadsheets and formula. it requires constant political analysis and guidance, clever use of the member states’ historical knowledge and leverage in different countries and regions, and dynamic decision—making on where we spend and how we capitalise on investment. without that, it will just be more of the same.
madam president, commissioner, the war of aggression launched by russia violates every rule of international law, destroying the hard-won peace on the european continent, and those who destroy peace must be severely punished. if the instruments of the international criminal court are not sufficient to ensure that justice is done, having no jurisdiction over the crime of aggression, then we need a new instrument, a special court for ukraine. the message delivered by the european parliament in its vote today is extremely clear and strong. the kremlin leaders, along with the murderous putin, must pay for the destruction of a country and for the thousands of lives killed in this cruel and senseless war. we have a duty to do justice not just for ukrainian citizens, but for all citizens of the world who must live in peace.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. special summit on migration and asylum: the european union is committed to democracy and fundamental rights, the fundamental right to asylum and respect for human rights. and this is also the basis of all the decisions of all the member states whose practice, however, is all too often different. and now conservative elements in this house are crawling with old-fashioned ideas from the mothball of immigration policy. mr weber thinks that fences must be conceivable. but our german history shows that fences and walls are not the answer. and the eu, based on shared values as a peace project, cannot finance walls. and is it not a sign of poverty for a strong european union to talk about relocating asylum procedures to third countries? ladies and gentlemen, we must find a solution that strengthens our common values, that respects and protects european and international law. that's our job, and i'm ready to do it.
mr president, commissioner, minister, i have to ask you to stop this. ladies and gentlemen! you have to ask yourself what kind of immigration policy the left-liberal majority wants. is it a policy that does not respect the eu regulations, which say that the external borders of the european union must be guarded, that the relevant rules regulate the crossing of the external borders of the schengen area? this question needs to be answered clearly, because i have the impression that the left-liberal majority would like everyone to join the european union when they want and how they want. i think that asylum policy should be dedicated to asylum seekers and that's the kind of refugees we are dealing with in poland. in the first weeks of the russian-led war in ukraine, after february 24 last year, more than nine million war refugees entered poland. how has the european union supported the polish state in ensuring the basic needs of war refugees? yes, in such a way that poland's access to the necessary, necessary funds under the cfp was blocked. it shows your deep hypocrisy and lack of understanding of the real issues.
mr president, your excellency, romania wants the european union to become a safer place for its citizens, but romanians are european citizens too. romanians are key to curbing illegal migration and yet they have been terribly offended. the romanians were denied access to the schengen area on december 8th, and this was because of the political meanness of austrian chancellor nehammer, who, lo and behold, paid for it in the elections: his party scored the worst result in sunday's elections since world war ii. ladies and gentlemen, the european union must not become a place where the larger day disposes arbitrarily of the fate of millions of citizens. what did the romanians do to deserve such a shitty treatment? they invested a billion euros in border security, they helped millions of refugees -- 3.5 million ukrainians -- fed them, took them home, bought them medicine and powdered milk, and they didn't complain, because romanians are christians, not just say they're christians. the romanians are taking a major risk in the vicinity of ukraine, having 650 km of border, but they are taking it on themselves. and i'll tell you something, and you take note: romanians are not the suckers of the european union! i hope that sweden, which is a country with a consolidated democracy, will put the extension of the schengen area to romania and bulgaria back on the european union agenda in one of the two jha councils in march or june under its presidency.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the key thing in managing illegal migration is the message we send to potential illegal migrants and the consistency in the implementation of that message. illegal migration will increase if we send a message: just come, but someone like ngos will help you, even if you cross the border illegally. if we send a message that we respect the laws of the borders and there is no chance of you entering the european union illegally, then illegal migration will decrease. and as for legal migration, we need to think about the consequences. immigrants have a very strong identity, and the european mainstream has been systematically working for years to destroy national, religious, and even gender identity. and in the encounter of strong and weak identity, the strong one simply wins. so it's quite unrealistic to expect the assimilation of this strong identity of these immigrants into the european identity, and this is confirmed by the reality that shows the no-go zone and the further endangerment of identity and all the values that come from the traditional christian culture.
mr president, the european union may be confronted soon with a new migration crisis. many eu countries have difficulties in fighting traffickers and organised crimes. we also did not provide all the proper support to the countries of origin, and we have neighbouring countries that transform migration into a business. moreover, according to the commission reports, we also have too many member states that do not respect what we have already decided together. interestingly enough, some of the leaders that do not respect the current provisions are exactly those that blame the eu on this issue. for example, the right—wing austrian chancellor, mr nehammer, contradicts the european commission and is opposing the accession of romania into schengen by presenting false data on migration while ignoring his capacity to manage the situation. in romania, after being crossed by more than two million refugees with thousands remaining in our countries, we do not complain like the populist leaders. we act, we help people, we also support the country of origin. we are also investing a lot in border protection, but also in offering proper support to refugees. but we cannot ignore that help provided is too little. we have to do more. we have to act very precisely on this issue while at the same time caring about people.
mr president, madam minister, a few years ago, in 2016, i represented my country in the european council with the same subject on the agenda, asylum and migration policy, and i have the impression that since then the speech, unfortunately, has not advanced much, neither the problems we have on the agenda, nor the solutions. i expect that this time the leaders, the heads of state and government, will make decisions. it is a matter of responsibility to the european citizens. and it is also a matter of responsibility to the romanian and bulgarian citizens that they are not taken hostage in these talks on asylum and migration policy and i expect the swedish presidency to play a proactive role in finding a solution for romania and bulgaria to join schengen, to which both countries are entitled by treaty and we all know that they have fulfilled the conditions.
in writing. both the s&d group and the esd have placed great emphasis on the need to reach tangible agreements on migration management before the end of the legislature. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of specialised agencies for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the european union's own specialised agencies for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. we therefore stress the importance of focusing the efforts of the negotiations not on return but on improving the pathways for regular migration and on strengthening humanitarian channels for asylum seekers. in this way, not only will the humanitarian crisis be alleviated, but solutions will also be found to the demographic challenge and the shortage of labour in some sectors of the union's economy.
in writing. – on three major fronts, european policy on asylum and migration is either stagnant or deadlocked. what should be a common policy for regular migration to europe remains an undeveloped framework that if properly mounted could serve as a reasonable and effective way to counter illegal migration. ironically, europe needs migrants to refresh its demographic base and replenish labour markets. then, real tough action against people smuggling has been prioritised in verbal terms but ineffectually implemented. to be honest, the new initiatives that are being touted do not inspire confidence that there will be progress soon in dismantling the criminal networks involved. finally, solidarity between member states in sharing the burdens of incoming migration flows remains in limbo, caught in a stalemate which makes the commission’s attempts to achieve a compromise sound like diplomatic fudge. to be sure, eu action over the ukrainian refugee emergency has been admirable. but that very success has served to cloud the issues that need to be resolved over asylum and migration from africa and asia. additionally, it is fuelling perceptions outside the eu that europe applies discriminatory standards according to who arrivals are and where they come from. that hardly provides a good basis on which to deal with relevant third parties.
in writing. the open public consultation shows that a majority of citizens believe that publishers of political advertising should pay attention to transparency and fairness of reporting. political advertising services are expanding in the european union. the significant growth of such online services, in the face of uneven and fragmented regulation, has raised concerns that the internal market is not currently equipped to provide political advertising services that meet high standards of transparency in order to ensure a fair and open democratic process in all member states. such concerns about gaps and lack of transparency have already prompted some member states to take appropriate action. the national regulations on political advertising activities lay down obligations for political advertising service providers, which determine the accessibility of political advertising and indicate the elements of its content in order to ensure a high degree of transparency. such national rules help, inter alia, to ensure accountability and the overall organisation of a fair and open political process, including by helping to monitor the performance of political actors in their respective roles. rapid technological developments, increasing fragmentation of regulation and an increasingly problematic regulatory context, together with the increasing amounts of money spent on political advertising activities, indicate the need to take action to ensure the free movement of political advertising services across the union, while ensuring high standards of transparency, in order to make the electoral processes in the eu more open and fair.
the february european council must maintain the capacity for articulation and collaborative action which has enabled the european union to give a consistent response to major global challenges, and in particular to the invasion of ukraine and its impacts. the combination of policies in energy, economic support and monetary policy is beginning to show signs of being able to contain the inflationary peak and to crush growth prospects less. in this context, it is essential that the union move rapidly forward with the modernization and investment measures envisaged to maintain economic competitiveness in the face of the stimulus applied by the major competing powers and, in particular, by the united states of america. collaborative action must also have a strong social focus, protecting the most vulnerable european citizens and supporting the middle classes, in a logic of dignity, justice and prevention of populist advances. in the field of migration, it is essential to take clear measures, making asylum procedures more operational, cooperating with the countries of origin and opting for immigration corridors that are linked not only to the humanitarian dimension but also to the integration of migrants into the socioeconomic fabric of the union, where this is the will of both parties.
the rapporteur. madam president, madam minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is clear: there is too much manipulation and abuse in our elections and in our democracies. foreign interference has become a plague. cambridge analytica, qatargate, and i could go on the context in which we find ourselves speaks for itself. as policy-makers, we must take all our responsibilities, provide appropriate solutions and responses to combat more effectively all forms of disinformation and interference in our democracies while preserving the openness that must always characterize the european public debate. this regulation was a first response to the increased demand for political transparency, a question which is obviously linked to the actions against interference that our assembly has been taking for several months in the special commission of inquiry of inge on disinformation and fake news. we are at a moment in our history when we must send a very strong message to our fellow citizens. we want more transparency, we want better protection against disinformation and foreign interference, we want to build a genuine single market for political advertising services - especially for our european smes - we want more legal certainty and fewer barriers, obstacles and bureaucracy for political advertising service providers. european political parties will no longer be blocked by 27 different regimes, but will have the opportunity to campaign more easily across borders. more market liberalisation, therefore, and more protection for our freedoms. we've all spoken out about the attacks on our democracies, the manipulation of social media, the dangers of fake news. we must ask ourselves whether we are serious about these intentions or whether we are just pretending. we have worked really well with all the groups in this parliament in the committee on the internal market. everyone has shown a sense of responsibility and cooperation, and i really hope that this work will be rewarded and supported by a very broad consensus in the plenary tomorrow. as regards the use of personal data for the targeting of political advertising and the lively debate surrounding it, i refer, of course, to article 12 and i will quote mark twain: "the rumours about the death of political advertising are greatly exaggerated. sorry, i should say: are widely amplified by some large platforms, very active, with their propaganda, recently, against our initiative. we will always fight for free speech for all, but not necessarily for the unregulated and unconsented amplification power of the big digital platforms. this is the aim, i believe, of the compromise on which my colleague anna donáth worked in the committee on civil liberties. in the cambridge analytica case, 87 million personal data was used without consent. the rules we want to introduce will ensure that no other cambridge analytica can happen. at the same time, these rules neither block nor interfere with personal political speech or the freedom of each of us. they only regulate content related to paid political advertising services. i would like to thank all my colleagues who have contributed greatly to the fact that this text is on the table today. thank you for your cooperation and thank you for your political will to work together. ladies and gentlemen, we have a unique opportunity to work towards a better democracy and a better european market. let's take her.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. the commission has already made a number of proposals. disinformation campaigns and attempts to influence elections have also increased in europe. they are now a serious threat to our democracy. the regulation on the transparency of political advertising is not an easy one, but it is the right one and it is an important one. i believe that we in parliament have been able to find a balanced approach. while we have had many times in the offline world, more stringent measures through media regulation, through regulations and laws that have been raised at the national level to separate content and advertising cleanly, the online world has now been adapted accordingly. unpaid content is not covered, and free and critical journalism and political reporting and information are not advertising and therefore are not covered by this regulation. they are an essential part of our democracy, and this was particularly important to us in the committee on culture and education. we also take into account the special conditions of traditional media, because even though our lives are often digital nowadays, traditional media still enjoy great popularity and fulfil an important social role. they remain a reliable source of information and should not be overwhelmed by excessive bureaucracy. in a time when we are looking more closely, this regulation can give us all legal certainty and greater transparency and, above all, play an important role in protecting our democracy.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – madam president, dear colleagues, i’m actually speaking today on behalf of my colleague anna donáth, who is the rapporteur on this file on behalf of libe and worked alongside the shadows to arrive to the result today. online targeting and ad delivery techniques have grown to be the business model for the big tech industry. it capitalises on our personal data, including very sensitive one, and not only the data that we consciously provide, but also the one that is inferred from our daily online activities. the use of such data creates specific audiences, fosters polarisation, causes deep divisions in our societies, risking the integrity of public debate, of electoral processes and ultimately of our democracies. as libe rapporteur, my colleague, anna donáth, is proud of the broad agreement and the solid text found in this house to counter these unhealthy practices and to protect our democracies and fundamental rights by restricting the use of those data. instead, we propose a system based only on consent on personal data provided by the users. additionally, this house worked hard to achieve an effective european enforcement mechanism with the european data protection board in the lead. our ep report gives protection to our citizens from the misuse of personal data and preserves european democracies from interference, manipulations and disinformation from malicious political actors.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for the debate. i have noted your support, as well as concerns, and i will definitely convey them to the vice-president jourová. the commission really appreciates the fact that the parliament and the council share the main objective of the proposals. it remains the commission view that this regulation will enable an unprecedented high standard of transparency in the provision of the political advertising. it will also prevent the use of potentially problematic targeting methods. we have a chance to set global standards of transparency of the political advertising process and shouldn’t miss this opportunity. the commission supports your rapporteurs’ aims to present a negotiation mandate to the parliament to open the way for trilogues to begin fast. there is still time to get this done ahead of the european parliament elections next year, and we definitely stand ready to support you to ensure we do it well. thank you very much for this discussion.
the rapporteur. madam president, i cannot stress enough the relevance and importance of this dossier in the current political context. with tomorrow's vote, we must have a very strong position, a very large majority in the european parliament, to start the trilogues properly, and we have no time to lose if we want these new rules to be implemented before the next european elections. i am convinced that once this text is in force, elections in the european union will be more transparent and more resilient, as all my colleagues in the renew group have said. of course there is no risk to independent media and journalism that, mrs verheyen also explained very well. ladies and gentlemen, the balance sheet is clear: you know very well that the platforms simply have to check the existence of political sponsors and whether the information they provide about them is complete. we will not introduce any general monitoring obligation, let alone any form of censorship. but as paul tang said, in the end, it's the voters who have to decide, not the digital platforms. daniel freund and alexandra geese have rightly pointed out that greater transparency is essential to protect our democracies and maria-manuel leitão-marques is right on this point: the european database we are going to introduce with our proposal will undoubtedly help in this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. it is unlikely that our candidates or elected representatives will be made to suffer more in local elections; i do not see any danger in that, given the proportionality of the obligations we are going to introduce. so we are giving a very important and long-awaited answer. let us go on, ladies and gentlemen: what we are doing is common sense.
in writing. i support the aim of the regulation to establish harmonised rules on political advertising in the eu internal market. in political advertising, it's important to know who paid for the ad. i am opposed to the interference of third countries in our political systems and to any malicious attempts to manipulate people. transparency requirements for political advertising need to be strengthened. i disagree with article 12 of the bill, which deals with the targeting of political advertising and the prohibition of it. after the facebook/cambridge analytica scandal, it's clear to everyone that there is an inconsistency in democracy where some interest groups have the ability to manipulate even the subconscious mind of a person and others don't have access to those tools. in a democratic election, all candidates should have equal opportunities. i don't think we should go back to pre-internet times when it comes to targeting political advertising, but there should be a level playing field for all to target political advertising, and the scope of the targeting should be clearly defined.
written. the objective of this regulation is to harmonise transparency obligations for political advertising service providers and to introduce harmonised rules on political advertising. it is important to emphasise that the new regulation will apply to all types of elections: elections to the european parliament, as well as all elections or referendums organised at national, regional and local level in the member states and elections to determine the leadership of political parties. our group has been at the forefront of advocating for stricter rules on transparency of political advertising to help citizens recognise political ads and exercise their democratic rights in an informed way, strengthening their trust in democracy and elections in the eu. the implementation of this regulation will help us to combat disinformation and prevent the illegal interference of other states in our electoral processes. by enforcing this regulation, we protect our democracy.
in writing. i support the ambitious agreement reached at committee level to increase transparency rules on paid political advertising in eu countries. paid political advertising must be clearly marked/labeled and provide a number of key information, including the name of the sponsor, the amount spent, the provenance of the funds used, the link between the advertising and the relevant elections or referendums, and the period for which the publication and dissemination are intended. citizens need to know why they are seeing an advertisement, who paid for it and how much, and which population groups were targeted. governments or national parliaments will have to adopt transparency regulations on the spending of party money. i draw attention to the fact that public money should be used to present the projects and public policies of the parties and not to attack political opponents.
in writing. disinformation campaigns and attempts to influence elections have increased in europe and have become a serious threat to our democracies. that is why i welcome the regulation of political advertising which will help strengthen the democratic process. we have insisted on clearer rules for political advertising, and through our efforts, the european registry for online political advertising will be implemented, which will significantly contribute to increasing transparency. we don't want the regulation to restrict the fundamental right of freedom of expression, we don't equate political opinions with political advertising. we want to protect citizens from techniques used online, especially in the electoral context, which often threaten citizens' personal data. these amendments also aim to limit the power of actors outside the union to influence the democratic process and we will have an important tool to combat disinformation. it will allow us to avoid foreign intervention, through clearly defined rules. in this context, i have also proposed to strengthen european political parties by promoting their logos in national advertising. we must respect freedom of expression but at the same time we must protect our citizens from manipulation techniques.
in writing. the grey areas of political advertising that permeate the heart of democratic processes, including elections and referendums, are too numerous to ignore. that's why i'm in favor of stricter rules on political advertising. that is why i supported the amendments concerning the rules on political advertising in the eu. these aim to increase the transparency and traceability of political advertising, make more information available to the public about the advertising clients, ban so-called micro-targeting, advertising and advertising financing in the eu for non-eu entities and impose stricter sanctions on infringers. i support the amendments also in the light of the memory of the bad practices in slovenia. before each election, we have unfortunately witnessed many bad practices in political advertising, which avoid transparency or ignore it altogether. actions like this are starting to make people trust politicians. there is a widespread belief that politics is driven by some backgrounds whose interests are more than benevolent. the revised rules on political advertising will provide clear legal provisions on the transparency, traceability and openness of political advertising. the changes adopted will severely restrict marginalisation practices and protect democratic processes in the eu.
in writing. political advertising services in the eu are constantly evolving, especially in the online space, and such services are often also provided across borders. the digital transformation and technological changes have enabled the proliferation of various new media and methods of financing, preparing, placing, promoting, publishing and disseminating political advertising. this development, in the context of fragmented and unevenly enforced national regulation, clearly demonstrates that internal market rules should be adapted to ensure an adequate level of transparency of political advertising, which is necessary for a fair and open electoral process in all member states. therefore, at a time when new digital technologies are becoming more widespread and social networks are being used to disseminate political advertising, it is essential to lay down harmonised transparency obligations for political advertising service providers and to introduce harmonised rules on the use of targeting and leveraging techniques for political advertising where personal data are used.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you for inviting me, the presidency, to join this debate. the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing is a key task for our presidency and connects to one of our four priorities: security. this is also an area where the council is firmly engaged. last december, the council reached an agreement on the negotiation mandates for the anti-money laundering regulation and the anti-money laundering directive. in addition to that, we have a mandate for negotiating the substance of the anti-money laundering authority. moreover, on the transfer of funds regulation, we have, together with you, reached an agreement, which is now in the final stage before adoption. i look forward to engaging with the european parliament on the remaining negotiations as soon as you are ready. but let me come to the issue on hand – the commission delegated act on the eu list of high-risk third-countries for anti-money laundering and terrorist financing purposes. as is always the case, the council stands ready to examine any list put forward by the commission. the commission adopted this delegated act on 19 december. after this, we initiated without delay an internal process to assess member states’ intentions regarding the act. however, given the date of adoption, the period for this assessment largely overlapped the holiday period in our member states. this is especially relevant because the scrutiny period for this delegated act is one month as opposed to the normal three months for financial market regulations. because of this, the objection period was extended. this was later confirmed by the council on 17 january, and therefore the deadline to object is now 20 february and we are currently assessing member states’ intentions regarding the delegated act. our current understanding is that the council is not interested in objecting to the delegated act. for the council’s examination, we are taking into consideration the lessons learned from the 2019 update of the list. we believe that, since then, the commission has worked hard to improve the method and has engaged closely with member states, which was appreciated by the council. i would like to conclude by reaffirming the presidency’s full commitment to maintaining close cooperation between the institutions and the money laundering area. i look forward to hearing your views. thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i am pleased to speak to you today on this important issue on behalf of my colleague, commissioner mcguinness. for this commission, as for this house, the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism is a top priority. we need to keep strengthening our defences against money laundering and terrorist financing. this means we must also address risks that come from outside the eu. the anti—money laundering directive requires the commission to list high—risk third country jurisdictions. these jurisdictions have strategic deficiencies in their national frameworks on anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism. under the directive, any third—country jurisdiction publicly identified as a risk to the international financial system by the financial action task force is also presumed to be a risk to the eu internal market. this is justified because the international financial system is highly interconnected. market operators are closely connected. our market is very open, and there is a high volume of cross—border transactions to or from the union. against this background, the eu list of jurisdictions must be aligned with the list published by the task force. this is a legal requirement that was decided by the co—legislators when they agreed the anti—money laundering directive. the commission therefore adopted the delegated act after a full analysis of the situation, and according to all the information at our disposal. we respect the position of the council that they need more time to scrutinise the act – and this is the right, of course, of the co—legislator. let me underline that this updated list is essential for the integrity of our financial system and for the eu’s commitment to combat money laundering globally. we remain confident that it will enter into force as soon as possible. finally – and this is very important for me – let me add that the commission, together with the european external action service and the eu delegations concerned, work closely with jurisdictions that are already listed or soon will be. we help them address shortcomings in their national anti—money laundering and countering terrorism financing frameworks. we provide them with technical assistance to help them fully implement their action plans agreed in the task force, because listing is not the end but the start of a process. the aim is to help jurisdictions improve their anti—money laundering frameworks. we regularly de—list jurisdictions who make improvements, as indeed we are doing in this same act. the commission will continue to work closely with this house and keep you fully informed of future developments. i look forward to hearing your views.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union has had a money laundering problem for years. estimates put the volume of suspicious transactions within europe in the triple-digit billions. this is partly an imported problem. what is clear is that our defence against money laundering and terrorist financing is only as strong as the weakest link in the chain. it is therefore right that we look very closely at third countries with obvious deficits. that is why we, as the european parliament, have co-initiated the list of high-risk third countries, and it must of course be kept up to date, there is no doubt about that. but it is also true that we have a great task ahead of us in the area of money laundering, also within the european union. in the member state i know best, we have a special money laundering unit based at customs, which is moving a huge mountain of unresolved suspicions. we're talking about over 50,000 suspected cases that haven't been processed. if only one in a hundred of the suspected cases is really a money laundering or terrorist financing problem, then it is obvious that a lot of things go wrong if they are not properly dealt with. so before we make a scandal here because the council sometimes needs a month longer - we sometimes need that too - let us concentrate on ensuring that the council does not remove a country from the list. then we're on the right track.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, in july 2022, following the revision of the fatf list, which included the uae in the list of jurisdictions subject to closer money laundering monitoring, i sent a written question to the commission regarding the inclusion of the uae in the european list of high risk third countries on anti-money laundering. in december, the commission proposed to revise this list and include the uae along with other countries, but the council did not consider this a priority and postponed discussion of this issue. on the other hand, today, after so many scandals with corrupt dictators and money laundering that have affected the union, we have not clearly and firmly banned passports and golden visas in the union. i would like to believe that we are not turning a blind eye to anti-money laundering issues at home or in third jurisdictions, especially as we know very well that russia is circumventing eu sanctions with the help of some of these jurisdictions. i ask the council why we are still reflecting today? why do we have no courage, only interests? if not now, when?
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank you for this very timely exchange on the crisis in afghanistan. in february, the foreign affairs council will return for a discussion on afghanistan with the objective to define the way ahead and on concrete actions to hold the taliban accountable for their actions and the violations of basic human rights. for now, i want to underline that all options are on the table, both with regard to humanitarian assistance and support for basic needs. the european union will continue to stand firmly to protect the human rights of afghan women and girls and is ready to coordinate the common way forward with our international partners. we need to ensure international coherence, including a division of labour. your support in the process will continue to be fundamental, so thank you for the discussion.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the deterioration of the humanitarian situation in afghanistan is staggering. however, on humanitarian aid - a subject of particular interest to me in my committee on development - the european union cannot bow to the dictates of the taliban. let's talk about the inexorable decline in women's status. in late december, the taliban banned female ngo staff from working in afghanistan. this decision is not surprising. it does, however, mean that many afghans will not have access to western aid, for example in the medical field. it is easy to understand that the european union, which in 2021 promised to almost quadruple its humanitarian aid to the country, may, in doing so, condone such practices. moreover, the debate over whether to classify the taliban as a terrorist organization continues to shake canada, demonstrating that fears about potential aid diversion remain acute. in short, the european union must clarify its position on a regime that europeans reject and which is decidedly at odds with their values. thank you.
the s&d group has sent the president decisions on changes to appointments to committees and delegations. these decisions are entered in the minutes of today's meeting and will come into force on the day of this announcement.
on a proposal from the committee on legal affairs, parliament shall examine the validity of the mandates of mr bergur løkke rasmussen, mr erik poulsen and mr anders vistisen with effect from 22 november 2022 and of ms beatrice covassi with effect from 6 december 2022.
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute statement on important political questions (rule 172 of the rules of procedure).
mr. president, i want to be very clear: europe has to wake up! we are in a situation that is becoming increasingly difficult, and we can get out of it by acting. we need european solutions that lead to a better life for citizens, because we have seen that inflation has raised prices and it is hard to bear, we have seen that many people do not have access to health services or to services in the area of quality education. we have seen that social dumping from outside the union directly affects european companies and also that european funds are insufficient. we talk about big things, but we forget about the simple things that are important for the daily lives of the citizens. we make decisions, but we ignore the fact that many states don't follow the regulations in place. we claim equality, but we have citizens who are discriminated against and states treated as second-class. however, europe is the most successful project globally, but it is not finished. right-wing populism has used our fears to divide us, to convince us to stop defending our values. today in britain, we see the clear failure of euroscepticism, and we must not hesitate to expose it. the founders of europe wanted more, we must offer better for citizens to follow. each of us is europe and we must act to restore its strength.
mr president, who is lying: the austrian chancellor or the european commission? romania is being walked from gate to gate with a rail file for schengen entry. i can't sit back and listen to all the political statements, i can't listen to nehammer campaigning in austria for something that is rightfully ours. we are in the european parliament. we cannot pretend that we do not see an injustice brought to 20 million people in romania, a european state that is part of the european union. commissioner johansson, chancellor nehammer says that romania is the migration route. i know that's not the case. we have all this data. frontex says that's not the case at all. we need to clarify this, or we lose our credibility. who's lying, nehammer or frontex?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in its judgment of 19 january last, the court of justice of the european union banned the use of neonicotinoids in the coating of beet seeds. this decision puts french beet growers in a very worrying situation. one in four beet growers have already indicated their willingness to throw in the towel and move to other crops. in the short term, therefore, french sugar production is likely to collapse. the french minister for agriculture has just undertaken to compensate 100% for any losses in beet production due to the lack of treatment. in reply to my question, the commissioner for agriculture said that he would accept this exceptional national aid. i therefore hope that these commitments will be respected in order to encourage french beet growers to continue their production.
mr. chairman, on january 19th of this year a young man, christian pendikov, was attacked by a group of armed men in ohrid and beaten up for his bulgarian national identity. a classic hate crime, recorded and established by the prosecutor in ohrid, who describes and says that the young man was attacked because of his self-identification as a bulgarian. this hate crime was preceded by several attacks on bulgarian cultural clubs in macedonia, including in bitola, including in ohrid, by the adoption of a xenophobic and essentially nazi legislation that prohibits the formation of non-governmental organizations of people with bulgarian national self-consciousness and forgets their names. all these crimes are hate crimes and are directed against an ethnic group in the republic of north macedonia that self-identifies as bulgarian. all these crimes are promoted in another way, openly or secretly, or more or less visibly by various persons in positions of power in the republic of north macedonia, including the presidency and the council of ministers. this must be strongly condemned by this house and the european commission, and the republic of north macedonia must be forced to respect absolutely all norms for the protection of human rights and the right to self-determination.
mr president, last week the irish government failed to support a sinn féin motion demanding the end to a deal between coillte, the irish state—owned forestry service and the british investment fund gresham house. irish public farmers and environmentalists alike are united in their indignation. the use of our natural assets in a deal with foreign investment funds adds insult to injury. again, another example of an irish government standing idly by as cuckoo vulture and investment funds profit off the backs of irish workers and families. this deal won’t benefit the environment. it won’t help ireland reach our climate goals. the deal only lines the pockets of corporations with no regard for our resources or citizens. as shareholders on behalf of the irish people, i am calling on the irish government to abandon this deal, which flies in the face of real and meaningful climate action. if the irish government fails on this, they fail rural ireland, they fail forestry and will fail biodiversity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the right to freedom of opinion and expression is one of the most important democratic rights in the european union. but the right to an opinion is not the right to be misinformed, nor is it the right to present one's own opinions as absolute truths. it's not the right of extremists to promote hatred, to lie to people. online communication has made it much easier and faster for misinformation to spread to people who don't know or can't verify the information. what's even worse is that this misinformation is also being spread through the mainstream media, where there are news channels in all the member countries of the european union that seem to follow no rules anymore except for financial interest. disinformation is extremely dangerous for democracy, because it exploits people's good faith and changes behavior in social relationships, leading to a high degree of polarization, to hatred. we must take this matter very seriously, colleagues, and as soon as possible.
mr president, fellow citizens of the european union, we have for some time been witnessing the most insidious, prolonged and dangerous attack on our fundamental individual rights and the sovereignty of our countries, aimed at enslaving us as individuals and nations. this attack is not carried out by force of arms, but by the european institutions, by all kinds of administrative and judicial mechanisms which have as their means the undermining of the supremacy of our constitutions and the taking of decisions from the elected representatives of the people, by a european bureaucracy or bureaucracy that is elected by no one and is accountable to no one. we are witnessing today the greatest attack thus on the sovereignty and independence of our states. we have thus arrived in the eu, where the supremacy of constitutions voted by citizens in referendums is undermined by the acts of unknown, unelected bureaucrats who answer to no one. this is not democracy, but tyranny, a tyranny of bureaucrats and officials that must be stopped now, before it's too late.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to address today a subject concerning serbia, a country which aspires to join the european union, but when romania took this step it made compliance with this status conditional on the granting of rights to national minorities. the romanian minority is extremely numerous in this country, but fundamental rights are still restricted. and here i want to pay tribute to the vicar of the romanian orthodox church in serbia, who was extremely strongly persecuted by the authorities throughout his 20 years of activity, of the protopopate "dacia ripensis" of the timok valley, in eastern serbia. i respect him and i think serbia should join the european union, but it has an obligation to respect all its citizens, including the romanian minorities.
madam president, it’s a pity that mr schirdewan is no longer in the room. after everything what he said he should go to kramatorsk, maybe, where yesterday, again, an apartment block was brutally attacked and destroyed by russia. the only way to end this war is a victory of ukraine. that’s the way to end the war the fastest as possible. and for that – i hope mr hahn that you are in direct contact with ms von der leyen, i suppose, on what she will do in kyiv – my impression is that it is a weak proposal what you are bringing to kyiv. on weapons, for example, i see no long—range missiles in the package. on sanctions, mr séjourné has said it, it’s already a year that we are asking to put the full backbone of the russian putin regime on the sanctions regime. and the commission is not moving on that. the same on the assets, the frozen assets of the russian central bank. it’s possible to seize them, to freeze them and to transfer them to ukraine. that’s possible. there is the legal service of the council, mr hahn, that’s something that cannot be disputed. and they have said that it is possible. and finally, a fast—track membership to 2026. if i see what is happening on corruption in hungary, i think, and i see the actions that are happening in ukraine, ukraine deserves a place in europe.
madam president, dear colleagues, we have all seen this year that we can only live in safety and stability within the borders of the european union if we are surrounded in our eastern neighbourhood by countries which are safe, stable, at peace. this is why i am telling to you today that the fight that the people of ukraine are fighting is also our fight. this is why it is right to support ukraine and it is also in the fundamental interest of the european union to support ukraine. we did a lot this year and i think we can be proud of what we did in terms of sanctions, in terms of financial support. the eur 18 billion put forward by the european commission will allow the ukrainian state to function this year, to pay salaries, to pay pensions, to keep hospitals, to keep schools going. and commissioner hahn, thank you for your personal engagement also for making this possible. we did a lot, but more has to be done and we do not need excuses for what cannot be done but we need arguments and solutions on what can be done. more on sanctions, support financially as much as is needed, and make sure that even before eu accession becomes possible, we bring ukraine closer to european projects. integration into the single market will help ukraine, will help ourselves and the principle: whatever we do for ukraine we do for moldova as well.
madam president, i welcome this initiative to gather in kyiv to witness the extraordinary courage and resilience of ukrainians and show our support. yes, this is the first european union summit to be held in the country where war is raging, so its historical significance must meet tangible results with clear guidelines and plans for immediate future. the key message of the summit must be that we stand with ukraine and count on its european union perspective. furthermore, i think it’s essential for our citizens to clarify some doubts, fears and even propaganda that ukraine is rejecting diplomatic solutions. since the 90s, there have been many diplomatic initiatives, minsk 1 and 2, the normandy format, let alone the budapest memorandum, and they were all bluntly disrespected by russia when it started its aggression. yes, peace should remain the ultimate goal, but as they pay the highest possible price in this war, true peace for ukrainians only means their victory over invaders.
madam president, dear commissioner, dear council representatives, dear colleagues, it is said that time and resources are everything in wartime. i would add hope and morale. i hear more and more arguing that giving hope to ukraine and moldova last year when accepting their candidate status was wrong because it created false expectations. well yes, that historic decision did create expectations, legitimate expectations that once we went down the path of thinking and acting strategically, geopolitically, that we would stay on that path. working hard to start the process of accession negotiations, like our resolution says, is the minimum that we must do to be consistent with ourselves and with the commitment that we made to the ukrainian cause and people. we cannot afford fatigue or commodity, just like the ukrainians on the front cannot. let us be courageous in maintaining hope for a ukraine that wants to be in the european family. slava ukraini!
madam president, ukraine's critical civilian and military infrastructure is being hit daily by missiles launched from aircraft, ships, from ground sites, severely affecting the population and the capability of the ukrainian army. in order to give ukraine a chance to defend its national territory, it is necessary to provide the ukrainian army with the necessary means to neutralize military logistics, air bases, ships and missile sites located on the territory of the russian federation. in relation to ukraine's european aspirations, from this point of view, ukraine needs to understand that the new minority law needs to be brought to the form recommended by the venice commission in order to guarantee the rights of minorities.
mr president, dear colleagues, your vote today is not about whether you think platform workers should be employees or not. what we are voting on today is whether the european parliament should effectively use its democratic procedures to debate this crucial piece of legislation. you are also not being asked to delay the legislation, because in fact the council is not yet ready to start a trilogue. therefore, the european parliament should take the time to consider and debate this crucial piece of legislation, which will fundamentally affect 28 million platform workers in europe. many of us have requested, from the beginning, that this text has to ensure legal certainty. instead, the proposed text is being interpreted differently by various stakeholders. that alone is a sign that it needs the further consideration of this house. i accept that not everyone in this house agrees on how to best regulate this sector, but we should be able to agree that when we write the legislation we ensure that it is legally sound and that it is implementable. colleagues, i ask you today to allow this house to have a meaningful vote on the subject. today, we each have the opportunity to improve the text and to achieve the goal of this directive, which is the improvement of the working conditions of platform workers, including social protection. for this reason, i call on you to vote against the committee’s decision to enter into interinstitutional negotiations.
rapporteur. – mr president, in accordance with rule 59(4), i would like to request that the matter be referred back to committee, for interinstitutional negotiations.
mr president, dear colleagues, as the epp group we support the amendment to criticise the international olympic committee for its intention to allow russia and belarus back to the games. we propose placing this call more prominently, as a separate paragraph of the resolution. the reason is that this will also allow us to take the split votes requested by the renew and epp groups on paragraph 26. i ask for your support for the following text in a new paragraph after 25 which reads ‘condemns the recent decision of the international olympic committee to allow russian and belarusian athletes to compete in qualifications for the paris 2024 olympic games under a neutral flag, which runs counter to the countries’ multifaceted isolation and will be used by both regimes for their propaganda purposes;’.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate. (the sitting was suspended for a short time)
the next item is explanations of vote.
mr president, we are talking about transparency and targeting of political advertising, and this is a very important subject because it has consequences for the democratic process and for the future of the european union. this file imposes a series of restrictions on political parties, especially with regard to electoral processes, in order to reduce the 'popularisation' of society to which the online environment has contributed significantly. but our response should not be a series of restrictions and bans that ignore modern communication. our attention should be focused on educating citizens, so that they are able to recognize fake news and attempts at manipulation. i think that it is not the democratic processes that will lead to polarization and that the subject is not sufficiently debated.
mr. president, i don't think we need to convince anyone of the importance of the regulation we voted on today. transparency in politics is essential, even more so in political advertising. transparency in politics and the relationship with citizens must be one of deep respect, and i think that from this point of view it is essential that we do everything we can to combat foreign interference of manipulation and disinformation. we have seen, especially in recent years, the dramatic consequences that these can produce. and that's why, because technological advances are allowing foreign state actors and others to interfere in our political affairs, in our political actions, it's essential that we prepare as well as possible, especially as the european elections are coming up next year.
mr president, in the european single market we are dealing with many large companies, with thousands of employees in different countries, with different laws, with different pay levels and with a variety of tools for consultation and protection of employees. however, regardless of the state in which they work, these employees are subject to the same decisions of the parent companies. european works councils thus play a key role in respecting workers' rights, in particular their right to be informed and consulted on decisions affecting them. that is why we need to ensure that we have a rigorous legal framework at european level and that the european works councils directive is updated to meet new realities. we must, however, protect the employees of community-scale undertakings by ensuring that the works councils actually function and by imposing strict sanctions on companies which do not comply with their obligations to consult them. that is why i voted to revise this directive.
the president shall draw up a report in respect of the implementation of this decision and shall request that a review be carried out of the directive on the laws of the european works council. the review is what we're looking forward to. it is important that laws and regulations are transposed into national law and that all european companies operate from the czech republic to the czech republic. we welcome the report which has been taken by the european works council to adapt the directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs to the requirements of the directive. this law, this balance between the former and the present. that week, there was a sea-change in the uk, which had not happened in years. i therefore hope that the european union will not be the first to review these laws without a vote, nor will it be the last to do so, as mr wallace and mr daly said, but we will be the last to do so.
mr president, i also supported this report. i think it balances the position of employees in the desired direction with respect to the largest companies where the position of employees has not been very strong. we have also had a recent experience in the czech republic where a korean company blocked collective bargaining and even refused to let protesting employees into the factory. i think these are examples where it is clear that the existing directive needs to be deepened. i therefore supported it also because it contains a number of interesting proposals, procedures, as well as case law and the approach of this european works council to the courts, to allow the blockage to be removed and the negotiations to be moved forward. so, from my point of view, it is a request for a deepening of the existing directive.
mr president, i voted against this report because of its wishful and populist nature. i understand the desire of the left to present itself as a defender of the rights of wage-earners, but firstly, this report will not achieve that, and secondly, it fulfils the wishes of the best of times when people in central and eastern europe lived for many years under communist propaganda and bolshevik occupation. this report will not solve any of the problems of the collective rights of wage-earners, it will be used, as the previous one, for some form of propaganda and so that the parties on the left in this european parliament can present themselves as defenders of rights, raising slogans of socialism, not knowing socialism and not knowing the effect of this system on the lives of millions of people in central and eastern europe.
mr president, we voted, colleagues, this resolution because ukraine needs our help. the tragic situation in which millions of ukrainians find themselves can be felt in any of our countries, in the countries of eastern europe. the ukrainians need to know that we, the european union and this parliament, stand with them and will help them in any way we can. russia's expansionist tendencies are of the past centuries. the cooperation and prosperity of citizens must now be the sole concern of all governments, not the restoration of some borders of the last century. millions of refugees, thousands of dead soldiers on both sides, families torn apart by grief, entire families deported, ukrainian children uprooted and sent far from their homes. all of this misery can be stopped by russia. the kremlin authorities are responsible for the consequences of their nationalist decisions, both for the ukrainian people and for their own people.
mr. president, the russian invasion of ukraine has brought to the surface a world we thought we'd forgotten. europe is at war again, and it is essential that the european union remains firmly committed to the position it took at the outset, that of helping the ukrainians to cope with this brutal invasion. the eu has also provided support to the ukrainian authorities in the fight against terrorism and the repression of civil society. in the soviet period, in addition to the majority of the ukrainian population, a diabolical process of denationalization was also subjected to the almost one million romanians who live today in ukraine and ukraine must create tools to protect all minorities, especially those who today are side by side, in the front line, with the majority of the population and fight against russia, as do the romanians, ukrainian citizens of this state. i believe that the minority issue must not remain an abandoned issue even in these complicated times.
madam president, the devastating earthquakes in turkey and syria, combined with the policy of leaving people defenceless for the profits of the business groups, have led to an unspeakable tragedy with thousands of dead, wounded and homeless. we welcome the wave of genuine solidarity of the peoples in which the greek people and the communist party of greece are participating. we now demand that all unacceptable sanctions by the european union, the united states and nato against syria be lifted so that humanitarian aid can reach the syrian people who have suffered under the imperialist intervention for many years. we would like to stress that in earthquake-prone countries such as greece or italy, governments, on the basis of the european union's harmful green strategy, are giving priority to energy-efficient buildings because it is profitable for the construction and other groups, rather than ensuring the static adequacy of buildings with the necessary seismic shielding. only the people save the people by solidarity and demanding comprehensive earthquake planning focused on preventing conflicts of interest.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. today is the hour of humanity. it's time for the human touch. it is time for solidarity. today politics is silent. he bows to human suffering. the turkish people and the syrian people are experiencing a painful ordeal, an unbelievable catastrophe. we are devastated and deeply shocked by the human suffering and the dramatic consequences of this terrible disaster. the european union must do everything possible to provide all the help it can to relieve the people who have been affected. our thoughts, our energies, our actions are today with the suffering peoples of syria and turkey. the europe of solidarity, the europe of social services, must stand firmly and in practice by the side of the syrian and turkish peoples. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union.
the commission is also proposing to extend the european union's support to the syrian regime, which is currently in the process of being dismantled. this is an unimaginable tragedy of immense proportions and unending grief. i wish for the survivors to find the strength to rebuild life from the rubble, not to be overcome by despair, however hard it may be. i call on the european union to provide all possible assistance to alleviate the suffering of the people in turkey and syria. thank you so much to the rescue teams from all over the world! i also take this opportunity to share my experience after the earthquakes in croatia, zagreb and petrinja in 2020. i thank the institutions of the european union for sending a generous package of aid to croatia. thanks to him, the city of zagreb was able to restore a number of public buildings: schools, kindergartens and museums. but we also learned some lessons in a very painful way. it is necessary to consolidate administrative capacities in one institution in order to prevent the european union's assistance from being used in time. unfortunately, the slowness of our administration at the national level has slowed down the renovation of private buildings to such an extent that it is likely to be a missed opportunity to use most of the european union funds allocated.
madam president, the mobilisation of the european union and its member states to support the people of türkiye and syria has been speedy and generous. and thank you, commissioner lenarčič, for what you have done till now. but we need all actors, international and on the ground, to put aside their differences and work together to ensure continuous and speed access so that humanitarian aid reaches all those in need in all affected areas. and this is especially pressing and necessary in northwest syria, where the humanitarian crisis was already worsening before the earthquake. related to syria, considering the disaster caused by the earthquake, i think a serious analysis is needed of the possibility of a general humanitarian exception clause that would allow aid to arrive more quickly without waiting for the various approvals that take time. and i call on the authorities in damascus and all other actors on the ground not to politicise the delivery of humanitarian aid and to engage in good faith with all humanitarian partners and un agencies to help people, because we need to act now beyond any political differences to help people.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i said it at the beginning, i’ll say it again: the european union is determined to assist the affected populations of türkiye and syria following the devastating earthquake. and i thank you for the very strong support that i heard from this house for this effort. you also raised several important issues, and i’ll try to address some of them now. first of all, the access to north-west syria – that’s really a big challenge. it’s a challenge because the united nations security council, on insistence of one permanent member, the russian federation, only authorises one border crossing point as an access point to north-west syria. and it so happened that following the earthquake, this border crossing point was closed for a couple of days because the access road was damaged in the earthquake. the european union has always advocated for opening additional access points, cross border and cross line. the latter, of course, we have noted that only about 2 % of the humanitarian aid to north-west syria was able to go through cross line access, meaning from the government controlled area to non government controlled area. so the access from cross border is not possible to be replaced by cross line. that’s why we believe there should be additional crossing points authorised by the un security council so as to facilitate access to north-west syria, where, as you know, almost 3 million people have been displaced for many, many years. which brings me to the second point: sanctions. sanctions do not prohibit humanitarian aid to syria. sanctions do not prohibit the provision of food, medicines, medical equipment and the like to syria. actually, the european union and its member states have so far provided humanitarian aid for syrian people since 2011 in the amount of over eur 27 billion, and that includes all areas of syria – government controlled and non government controlled. and we are ready, following this terrible earthquake, to step up the support and we are already doing so. however, it is important, as some of you pointed out, to address the danger of diversion of the humanitarian aid and emergency assistance by the assad regime. you know the record of this regime. you know the civilian targets that were bombed: hospitals, schools. how entire cities and towns were erased. how chemical weapons were used against the civilian population of syria by the assad regime. it is the assad regime that was killing syrian people. and that’s why it got sanctions. and sanctions are not killing syrian people. i would like to assure you that through the emergency response coordination centre, we will continue to mobilise substantive assistance for the people of both türkiye and syria. through the union’s civil protection mechanism, we will put sufficient safeguards in place to ensure that this assistance is not diverted and that it reaches the people who need it. in the same vein, we will continue to support our humanitarian partners on the ground in all parts of syria delivering essential aid. and we will deploy additional resources – financial and in-kind – in support of the people affected by the earthquake. in doing all of this, we, of course, do count on your continued support.
thank you very much, commissioner. this debate shows that the european parliament is deeply shocked and in solidarity with all those who have been affected by this appalling tragedy in turkey and syria. we have to do everything we can. this conversation is over. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. to date, over 36,000 people have been killed by the devastating 7.8 magnitude earthquake that hit the gaziantep region of turkey, and also affected neighboring syria, and many of them are children. tens of thousands of buildings destroyed, as well as hundreds of thousands of people homeless. the international solidarity that has been shown since the beginning is commendable, but the affected region is very large, everything is needed and, as unicef has reported, there are thousands of orphaned children. as co-chair of the intergroup on children's rights, i therefore sent a letter to the president of the european commission to welcome the commission's initiative to host a donor conference to mobilise funds from the international community, but above all to stress the priority attention that must be given to the specific needs of the youngest in rescue operations by, for example, speeding up the process of identifying children separated from their families, monitoring to counter possible criminal trafficking or giving priority to their placement in family or family-like communities. children always pay the highest price during crises, the eu must do everything possible to alleviate their suffering: it is a moral duty as well as a political one.
in writing. – the major catastrophe in turkey and syria hit the european space and areas contiguous to it. the humanitarian response to it has been significant and on the whole, timely. however questions will remain as to whether at eu level, a meaningful united response was deployed or could be. such questions are being asked and merit full consideration. should the eu have the instruments by which to deliver a european response to uncontrollable disasters like the earthquakes in turkey/syria? or should relief measures be mounted by national authorities? which would be most effective? effectiveness should be the key measure by which a choice is made. likely, relief action across the board at eu level for such emergencies would be the best way forward, for political as much as for logistical reasons. this was highlighted by the sanctions regime being applied to syria, which aggravated the situation on the ground. quick and concerted eu action to implement a moratorium on the syrian sanctions was needed. even in the face of an immense tragedy, political considerations must be kept in mind. rightly or wrongly, the eu cannot afford to be seen as attaching lower priority to humanitarian interventions in one area of ‘its’ space rather than to another one.
the next item is the report by mr eider gardiazabal rubial, mr siegfried mureșan and mr dragoș pîslar, on behalf of the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation (com (2022) 0231 - c9-0183/2022 - 2022/0164 (cod)) on the repowereu numbers for recovery and reintegration plans (a9-0260/2022).
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, exactly one year ago, russia invaded ukraine and declared war with terrible human, geopolitical and economic consequences. the increase in energy prices has this year led to higher prices for food, supplies and products, with very negative consequences for households and businesses. but, as with the pandemic, we've put in place a contingency plan, in this case to lower energy costs, reduce the economic impact of war and continue to move forward on the green transition. because that is the primary objective of repowereu. to this end, member states will have at their disposal existing appropriations under the recovery and resilience facility, and an additional eur 20 billion to propose measures to combat energy poverty, accelerate the deployment of renewable energy, reduce energy consumption, increase energy efficiency and expand storage capacities. when we negotiated the recovery plan, the context was totally different. this is partly why the aims and needs of the time were also different from those of today. therefore, repowereu is a new and specific chapter of the mechanism, containing special conditions and tailored to the new scenario. for example, and in line with the demands of the member states, we have negotiated a limited derogation from the principle of non-harm. but, as i say, limited. because war cannot divert us from our climate goals. we remain committed to being a climate neutral continent by 2050. and to that end we have introduced five conditions for granting this derogation. it must be really urgent and necessary measures to secure the electricity supply. compensatory measures for extra carbon emissions must be proposed and neither the 2030 nor the 2050 targets can be jeopardised. and we have also set a ceiling on european funding. the negotiations with the council were intense, but we have managed to introduce several changes to the regulation. we introduced a retroactive clause at the start of the invasion. we've agreed to a 20% pre-financing to give the states liquidity. we have introduced the need for more transparency and member states will have to provide a list of the 100 biggest beneficiaries. we have also made cross-border projects a priority, and at least 30% of repowereu has to be invested in this. these crossborder infrastructure needs are also addressed in the latest commission communication on how to improve the competitiveness of industry. in fact, that communication has a lot to do with the recovery plans and the objectives of repowereu. because we are talking about digital transition, green transition, and also structural funds, infrastructure programmes and innovation programmes. and do not misunderstand me: i think it is right to analyse all the existing programmes, because it can help to achieve the objectives of this communication. but we can't fool ourselves. these instruments respond to previous needs. they were already scheduled, and their funding was. i mean, we can't count three times because money only exists once. so the sooner the better, let us all get to work on how to achieve the objectives contained in this industrial strategy. but let us design the right instruments, give them funding and put a real revenue policy in place once and for all, so that those who are most benefiting from the european union contribute their fair share to the success of the european project.
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, we have all seen over the course of the last year, since the illegitimate and illegal invasion by russian armed forces into ukraine, we have all seen how important energy independence is. we have seen that dictatorships, that autocrat leaders are not hesitating to use energy as a tool or political weapon against the people of ukraine and also against the citizens of the european union. and now, with the vote that we are giving this week for repowereu, we show clearly that we have learned from the past. we are going to act together, united as the european union, to reduce our energy dependency on russia, to import no more gas, no more coal, and no more oil from russia. all of this together, as soon as possible and forever. we should also learn from the mistakes of the past. never again in the future should we depend on one single country which supplies energy to us, on one single route of transport or on one single energy source. we should we should diversify our energy consumption. we should import from countries that we can rely on, from countries that are stable, from countries that are democracies, from countries that are partners. and we should produce as much energy as possible within the european union because we have enough wind, we have enough solar, we have enough water for hydro energy. these are the basic principles of repowereu, a new eur 20 billion fund which the european commission proposed last year and which the european parliament has worked on. we have fundamentally improved and amended the proposal of the european commission so that this fund now can enter into force in a way in which it helps the people, enterprises and regions of europe, with eur 20 billion in grants which will help us to improve our infrastructure, connect ourselves better, which means we can move energy from where we have it to where we need it, reduce our dependency on russia and become more energy efficient. because the more energy efficient we are, the less energy we need to consume in order to reach our objectives, and the less energy we consume, the smaller the bill for the citizens and for enterprises. we have set clear european rules, but we have also allowed for flexibility so that member states can use the money where they need it. we as a european parliament have managed to obtain, in the negotiations with the commission and the council, a 20% pre—financing. that means that all governments of member states will receive a 20% pre—financing at the beginning of the implementation of the programme. now, when the situation is difficult, europe will come and support with 20% pre—financing. we as the european parliament have also imposed that countries that have cross—border projects, which would benefit us all, shall be obliged to do them. up to 30% of the money should go into cross—border projects – if, of course, countries have such cross—border projects – because we need to help each other. we have seen countries that wanted to reduce their energy dependency on russia last year, but they could not do it so soon. so we are going to work together. we are going to be together to reduce our energy dependency, and we are going to implement this programme in a way which helps people on the ground, in the regions. we want transparency on eu funds and we want the involvement of local and regional authorities because mayors, local and regional leaders know best what the needs of the communities are. to conclude, i would like to thank my two co-rapporteurs, eider gardiazabal rubial and dragoş pîslaru for an excellent cooperation, but also the rapporteurs of the other sectorial committees, because it was a joint effort: peter liese on behalf of the environment committee; dan nica on behalf of the industry research committee; peter jahr from the agriculture committee and pascal arimont from the regional policy committee. we all worked together to make sure that this money is well spent and reaches people in need very soon.
rapporteur. – madam president, one year has passed since putin decided to illegally invade and punish innocent people in ukraine, and we still cannot recover from the impact his decision had. fear, insecurity, darkness overshadow our borders. so much pressure was put on our economy, on our people; prices increased and inflation reached record peaks. and then so many questions started to emerge: how will we all heat our homes? how are we going to pay our bills? will we have enough energy storage at eu level? will we be able to produce our own energy? but dear citizens, no winter lasts forever. every winter has its spring. and this spring it is called repowereu. together with my colleagues, siegfried mureşan and eider gardiazabal, we team up again and join our forces from different committees. we took each concern one by one and found answers to them. how do we fight fear? with ambition! citizens had a tough year, barely managing to buy food and basic goods with the increased prices, and now they have to struggle with high energy bills. we can’t let our entrepreneurs, our small businesses alone, we need sustainable solutions now, not later. and we can do that thanks to the repowereu, this green instrument that delivers no less than eur 20 billion to member states, in addition to the money received through the rrf. ask your government what energy measures they plan to include in the recovery plans, and make sure you will find how to become more energy efficient, how to diminish your bills. how do we fight insecurity? with secure investments! our industry is not resilient yet; we need more autonomy and less dependency, and we can achieve that through repowereu. the russian gas and fossil fuels were used as a political and economic weapon. we do not need it because we are right now capable of increased storage, of producing our own energy, but not at any cost. we need to keep our green ambition, and the investment must respect the do ‘no significant harm’ principle. we must use the full force of our natural resources: wind, water, sun to diversify our energy system because we need a clean net zero continent for our citizens, especially for our next generations. on this path towards the green transition, no one must be left behind. let’s use repowereu to renovate the buildings in which poor people are now freezing cold. let’s help the street corner shops to reduce their energy bills. let’s support our smes to work in energy efficient offices. let’s invest in reskilling and upskilling to equip our citizens with green and digital skills. and how do we fight darkness? with transparency! how can politicians be credible in the eyes of our citizens, when we cannot show how eu taxpayers’ money is spent. and we explained from the parliament’s side over and over again that all these billions of euros must be spent by governments with responsibility, clarity and transparency. it was in vain in the rrf negotiations, and after two years, we still wonder who benefits from the recovery and resilience plans. and now, repowereu adds more investments in national plans. so we set up a clear requirement: as of now, each government will need to publish the top 100 beneficiaries receiving funding from the recovery plan. in conclusion, ambition, secure investments, transparency – this is, in a nutshell, what repowereu proposes. and now we wait to see how governments will use the money. i hope to find in the updated plans innovative, disruptive and concrete measures for europe’s energy system. as benjamin franklin used to say, energy and persistence conquer all things. thank you very much, and don’t forget: let’s repower europe!
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you very much for this debate. in view of the pressing consequences of the current energy crisis, the repowereu chapters will be a key tool, allowing member states to devise very concrete and much needed reforms and investments. these measures will be vital to ensure the long-term security, sustainability and resilience of the eu energy system. as discussed in detail today, the new regulation on repowereu chapters will enable to do just that – providing additional funding to reach these goals together. in a general climate of growing competition at the global scale, the repowereu can also make an important contribution to our transition towards a net-zero eu industry and support an even faster transition to climate neutrality. a swift adoption and entry into force of this regulation will send a powerful signal in this regard, showcasing the ability of the union to act together in an effective and concerted manner in the face of new challenges. let me thank you once more for your intense work on this file and reassure you about the continuous commitment of the commission to keep parliament duly informed about the progress of the facility. we look forward to tomorrow’s vote as a further demonstration of this parliament’s continued support for the comprehensive economic and social recovery from the covid-19 crisis.
the rapporteur. madam president, thank you very much for this debate. i would like to take this last minute to thank my co-chairs, mr siegfried and mr dragoş, once again for the great work they have done and all those who have collaborated in the repowereu negotiations. a little over a year ago we put forward the recovery plan, which marked a milestone in the european response, in european policy, and in this house we are completing it with repowereu. i think the deal is good. as we have seen, the majority of the political groups support it and i hope that tomorrow that support which we have already seen here will be reflected in a majority vote. but, of course, this is not the end point, because we have many more needs on the table. i mentioned this earlier in my first speech: the european commission has put forward an industrial policy strategy which clearly needs to be financed and unfortunately we will not be able to count on the money from the recovery plan or from repowereu, because the objectives are different and the member states have already decided exactly how they are going to use european funding. so i encourage the commission, but also this parliament, to work on new tools, on new methods of financing, and to be able to put a powerful strategy, at the level of what the european union needs, to take our industry forward on decent terms for everyone.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear colleagues, thank you very much for this positive debate. we have shown tonight that the european parliament is united in applying repowereu. eur 20 billion in fresh money coming from the european union to the people of europe so that people can easier face the difficulties that we all encounter nowadays: high energy bills; energy security. the problems of the past, the problems of the last year should not be the problems of the future. we are going to spend these european funds well, to make sure that we reduce our dependency on russian energy, to make sure that we become more energy efficient, to make sure that we connect ourselves better so that we can use primarily the energy that we have here in the european union. never again, in the future, should we become dependent on one country, one source of energy, one route of transport, particularly when this implies regimes, countries that we cannot trust. thank you very much, colleagues, for the fruitful cooperation. i’m looking forward to the vote which will take place this week. we are confident that a big majority will give a strong message from the european parliament to the people of europe. i would like to thank also the european commission and also the czech council presidency for having worked with us. money is coming to the people of europe; they will feel it soon. what will be important is for us to also spend these amounts well. repowereu, like the recovery and resilience facility, is a plan for investments, but it is also a plan for reform. we will help those in need, but we should also make sure that we use this opportunity to modernise our economies, our public systems, to make them stronger, more resilient, more digital, to put them in a better position to help the citizens and to face crises in the future. thank you for all your support, we’re looking forward to the implementation of this plan.
the reporter. madam president, commissioner, colleagues, our present will be history for generations to come. we are directly responsible for how we write this chapter of history. together with my colleagues siegfried muresan and eider gardiazabal, we have chosen to respond to citizens' concerns and needs with concrete solutions. people in poor areas of europe need their homes renovated so they don't have to suffer from the cold. vulnerable people across europe need support for energy renovation, new electricity and heat installations to pay lower bills, solar panels, green energy that does not lead to dependence on expensive energy. the bakery on the corner, the small entrepreneurs need panels, heat pumps, to consume less electricity. many entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises are looking for better insulated buildings so that their employees can work in better conditions. large companies want skilled employees with skills in industries of the future. there you might find miners and people who are disadvantaged, who the government could help with these jobs. these are the real needs that must receive european money. repowereu offers all these opportunities, but it comes with a condition: responsibility. dear governors, be responsible! respect the pnrr and its reforms! reforms do not bring votes, but they bring something more valuable: a better life for people, a future for industry, a stronger economy and add new investments in the rdp that can be financed through repowereu. guys, there's no time to waste! romania has at least eur 1,4 billion available to make its households and smes more energy efficient. ask your government what it wants to spend repowereu money on, ask to be consulted on the measures that will be included and make sure that repowereu money gets to those who need it. let's bring green energy into our homes!
madam president, dear commissioner jourová, i would like to thank the rapporteur, damian boeselager, for the very good cooperation in preparing parliament’s position. available data makes it evident that the participation rate in elections among the mobile european citizens is much lower than that of the nationals in a member state. there are many factors influencing the decision to vote or not, and certainly the registration process is the most significant. we need to close this representation gap in which the views of citizens making use of the freedom of movement are less reflected than those of other eu citizens. mobile european citizens need to know about their right to vote and the steps they need to take for the registration in the electoral roll. i am glad that the report of the parliament has improved the language on the possibility of immediate registration as a voter or candidate at a time of requesting a residence permit, has made it clear for voters that they have the choice of expressing their political preference in either the home state or the country of residence, and it has strengthened the references to information provision on the prohibition of double voting. and, in this regard, it is regretful that not all member states have ratified the council’s decision of 2018 amending the 76 electoral rule, which requires effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties in member states in the event of double voting. in its absence, strengthening the information provision through this directive is most useful.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 14 february 2023. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
in writing. the eu's secure communications programme includes the deployment of eu satellites to protect government communications. the first european multi-orbital satellite constellation iris is intended to ensure the security of communications for authorities or emergency services and to increase the eu's autonomy, especially in the context of cyber threats. the €2.4 billion programme is a very important step towards enhancing our security, especially in times of war on the eu's borders, but also in the face of conflicts in other parts of the world, which can have spill-over effects within the eu. we therefore support this initiative and look forward to the swift approval of the text of the agreement by the council.
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute explanations (rule 172) which is the colourful list of items which can be dealt with in one minute. i want to remind everyone to really use this minute, but not to overspend it.
i just repeat it also in english for those not using headphones. stick to one minute, please. i just say that to everybody because, as you see, it's already quite late in the evening and we have really a lot of speakers.
i would like to point out that you can speak for one minute from your seat.
madam president, this week, wednesday the 15th, marks one year since the sinking of the fishing vessel villa de pitanxo. this is one of the worst accidents in european fisheries in the last 40 years. it's a tragedy that continues to affect us all. i would like to reiterate, on behalf of the european parliament, my sincere condolences to the families and friends of the 21 victims. i also pay tribute to your perseverance and commitment in the pursuit of justice. this parliament, through the committee on petitions in the autumn and the committee on fisheries this week, has supported the necessary descent to the wreck of the villa de pitanxo, an operation of vital importance to better understand the reasons for the shipwreck, to try to recover the bodies of the deceased and also to advance the criminal investigation. a few days ago the spanish government finally began the process of inspecting the sunken ship. let's hope he gets off the ship soon. meeting the family's demands is a matter of legality, but also of humanity.
madam president, commissioner, since i have been here in 2014, i have spoken several times about the rights of the child, the rights of romanian children, who live in various states and who have been taken, simply, brutally, from their families, that was in denmark, norway, finland. now we have the case of a terrified little boy in israel, although the court has proven that the father can take care of the child. since he was seven -- and now he's 13, five years old, basically, the father wants his child back. what can we do for the rights of the child? we're starting to lose the trust of the citizens. we have the 2021 social services report, we also have the 2022 medical examiner's report, which recommends the immediate return of baby ben to his father. what can we, the european commission, do? what can we, the european institutions, do? because they are our children, europeans, living in one of the member states or in third countries.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, moldova and ukraine are two bodies attacked by the same disease. the cancer of putin. but moldova and ukraine are also the last shields that separate us from the maniac putin. today, the president of moldova, maia sandu, spoke about the foiled russian plan. by means of a coup d'état, the kremlin was to change the political order in the country. the russians planned to blackmail moldova through energy prices, so that people could not, had to go out on the streets, then to kidnap politicians by mercenaries, to establish a puppet regime in chisinau. do you realize that putin doesn't care about brussels, washington, the entire civilized world? can you imagine that they wanted to put maia sandu in a trunk, just like the red brigades did with aldo moro? can you imagine how maniac this man is? the fight for moldova and ukraine is vital, it is the very battle for our europe.
madam president, i want to join my colleague ştefănuţ in strongly condemning the russian activities that are now directed against moldova. what president maia sandu of this country said today is indeed extremely serious and there is no reason not to believe her. we all know that russia has long-term plans for this country. the idea of a violent coup in the country, the escalation of the conflict situation, the transfer of the conflict to another country, the destabilization of the entire region, undoubtedly the occupation of transnistria, these are simply great risks that we must firmly reject today. moldova has freely embarked on its european path. we must do everything we can to deter russia from any aggression, while at the same time giving moldova the unequivocal assurance that it has our full support and that its future lies with us in the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we have a european strategy to fight cancer, we have plans and programmes to help patients and survivors of this cruel disease, but we still have major differences from one country to another and even from one region to another in the way patients are treated. a patient in romania, in my country, has a much lower chance of survival than a patient in germany or italy. access to the latest medicines and treatments is difficult and often too expensive. information, routine checks and prevention are almost non-existent in poor areas, in areas far from large urban centres. i know that health is the attribute of the member states, but i think it is our duty to find ways of bringing normality to the less developed regions too, because we are talking about a fair, equal opportunity european union and we are proud of our slogan: 'leaving no one behind!'
madam president, commissioner, on 8 december 2022 the jha council took an unfair and discriminatory decision, in fact an abuse of law, with regard to the extension of the schengen area to romania and bulgaria. i think that this abuse of rights should be punished. that is why i have this week taken action by going to the court of justice of the european union to ask that this unjust decision be annulled, because it is in total contradiction with the treaty on european union and the schengen legislation. the european parliament has obtained the right to be a privileged claimant by a decision of the court of justice of the european union and they also want to obtain the privileged claimant status for all members of the european parliament by this action to the court of justice. european law is constantly evolving and is regulated by the decisions of the court of justice of the european union. let us hope that we can achieve this goal.
mr president, i would like to thank you. so by 2035, they want to ban gasoline and diesel. it's totally headless. and it is the same mistake that germany and other countries have made in the energy sector, where they have shut down clean nuclear power and now they are forced to evict people from villages to dig up coal that they need to produce electricity. and electricity is now so expensive that people are forced to leave their homes even though they are freezing inside. how do you think these people are going to buy an electric car and how are they going to be able to charge it at current electricity prices? and we don't have the natural resources to produce the amount of batteries that you electric car fanatics think is the solution to all our problems. lithium, cobalt and so on. the world's known reserves of these minerals are about 10% of the estimated need. what's wrong with you people? what makes you think we're going to be able to switch to electric cars when we don't have the natural resources to do it?
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we face some very difficult environmental challenges. i support the targeted reduction of emissions in the coming years. transport is a major source of environmental pollution and a negative contributor to climate change. the proposal before us is very ambitious, perhaps even too ambitious and difficult to achieve. we can't solve one problem and cause ten more. i have a series of questions about the correctness and the reasonableness of certain solutions. is it really necessary to completely phase out internal combustion engines? the continuous development of these engines and alternative fuels also leads to improved technologies. it is always better to have more options available than to completely shut out existing technologies, which are also constantly improving. today is the time for more sensible decisions for which our citizens will be grateful. that's why we were chosen. or we want them to never be able to afford their own car again. or they'll drive old cars until they're out of the way.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the age of the gasoline car is over. the electric car revolution is here. every car that we sell on the market today will, on average, be rolling for another 20 years into the future. in 20 years, we'll be well into the 2040s. then we'll be close to zero in our emissions. it is therefore wise consumer policy to ensure that we sell fewer petrol cars now and more electric cars so that people who buy a petrol or diesel car in the future do not have to stop using it prematurely. it's also a wise industrial policy. at present, most of the companies that sell electric cars on the market are based outside europe, but with strong policies here in europe, we are ensuring that more electric cars have a strong home market in europe and the industry can grow. the age of the gasoline car is over, the electric car revolution is here.
mr. chairman, this file is scandalous to say the least. totally on it. as rapporteur in the shadow of the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism, i would like to point out that there is hardly a better metaphor than this legislative report for the war against ordinary people that the 'green' lobbyists in this chamber are organising and waging. i don't think any of you can tell me what the carbon footprint is, what the environmental damage is, that it costs to build an electric car? how many hours of child labor, how many hours of slave labor do you think it takes to make the batteries for electric cars? of course, none of you are going to say these things because they don't go, they don't fit in with your idea of green lobbying. the passing of this law will lead to the end of personal mobility. this is a report aimed at the average citizen, the man who wants to own a car, to be able to afford it, to travel, to drive his family. and my question to the socialists is: how can you be socialists, when you oppress so much and wage war against the common people, against the poor people?
mr president, we all recognise that the transformation of our economy to a sustainable form is imperative. we're facing an important vote today. reducing emissions is our self-evident objective, but the european transformation must be carried out with sensitivity, especially in view of the sustainability of our jobs and the development of new technologies. it is good that we set ambitious goals for the protection of our environment. but it is also important that we maintain technological neutrality. we can't predict the future accurately because we don't know what we're going to learn tomorrow, and we don't know what innovations and improvements are going to be coming. it is therefore important to give a chance to all technologies, and in the automotive industry this applies not only to electric, hydrogen or hybrid propulsion, but also to the development of conventional combustion engines and the development of their new fuels that support our climate objectives. we need to have a clear focus on a really effective solution that will also deliver the desired results. i don't see the complete shutdown of the combustion engines as the only option. our aim is to decarbonise, not de-industrialise europe. it's not wise to completely shut down our know-how and decade of development in which we are world leaders. let's give a chance to all the technologies and ideas that can deliver the same, sometimes better, results. let us not lose sight of europe's heritage and trust in the ability of europeans to deliver effective solutions and innovations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the regulation we are about to vote on today is a historic step for sustainable mobility in the eu. the ambition to achieve zero co2 emissions from new cars and light vehicles sold in the eu by 2035 is an unprecedented challenge. a challenge which will find a major impetus in the new battery regulation, which i hope will be adopted by june, where we define sustainability criteria for batteries for electric vehicles which are estimated to be the dominant technology on the market. finally, tomorrow the commission will present the proposal for revising the co2 targets for lorries, which i hope will be adopted by this parliament so that we can reaffirm the union's objective of climate neutrality by 2050. (the speaker agrees to reply to a 'blue card' speech)
the answer is "blue card". look, i come from one of the most polluted areas in the world, which is the po valley, and so anything that will help reduce pollution, especially air pollution, i agree with. of course, nothing is given here, nothing is simple. what you are saying will certainly cause problems, but beware, we are moving towards a circular economy, a recycling economy, a reuse economy, a strong economy that will give jobs different from the current one, and in moments like these we must have the courage to look ahead.
mr president, the automotive industry is still one of the top industries of the european union. the european cars were and still are, something to be proud of. with more than 14 million new workers involved in this industry and more than 2.5 direct employees in the eu, this sector needs all our attention. we need to go green. our planet and our health need to be a priority. there is no doubt about that. but we could have in our auto sector a strong partner to find the best solution so that the european union will keep the lead in this sector and be much less pollutant than it is at this moment. we need more support for innovation, a neutral approach to the technologies. we want to be the leader in the green transition. the world beater. and we have to be. but it is much better and much safer to have partners to support the change of the industry, to make clear legislation and achievable targets to make sure we still have a very strong economy while becoming green.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, the health of european citizens has been, is and will always be a priority for me. i'm a doctor, a physician at the nicolae oblu emergency clinical hospital in iasi, romania, and i treat every day patients affected by pollution, by this disease that is reducing life expectancy and affecting quality of life in all european countries. in my view, any step taken to reduce pollution is extremely important and i will always support any measure that includes stimulating the production and purchase of electric cars in the member states, which are often inaccessible, rethinking, if you will, the clause on hybrid vehicles, rethinking the secondhand market so that our lives are protected. if i were to paraphrase the first man on the moon today, i could say that, from a legislative point of view, today is a small step for the european parliament, a small step for the european commission, but a giant step for the european citizens.
madam president, yesterday ordo iuris contacted me to speak in this debate, so speak i shall. dear ordo iuris, you and the far right here called this convention defective. the only defective thing in all of this is your view on women, the misogyny and sexism with which you drive your policies. the idea that women's sexual and reproductive health and rights should be driven by your disrespectful agenda is what i call defective, as is the way you speak on same sex couples and their children. on valentine's day, ordo iuris and those on the right of this chamber chose to love their women less because they let misogyny drive their principles. such love is defective. this goes beyond the principles we are discussing the protection and safety of women and girls, our mothers, our daughters, autonomous human beings. this convention should be the essence of what our union is able to do for all women. hence, the only defective thing in all the six-year saga is the ideology which encourages anything but this convention.
madam president, in the last eight years, 426 women have been killed in romania by their partners or family members. in 2022, nearly 40,000 women will be victims of domestic violence. the 2022 gender violence barometer, which was published by the filia center, shows us that the biases that encourage violence against women persist. 19% of romanians consider it either not at all or not at all serious that a woman is raped after agreeing to go to a man's house. 12% believe rape is justified if a woman is dressed provocatively. and today we have politicians in romania, parliamentarians who beat their wives, beat their wives without any major political consequences. we have the tools to change things, we need courage. the european union must ratify the istanbul convention and the member states must be resolute and consistent in their application. gender-based violence impedes the exercise of fundamental rights. democracy without ensuring the rights of all people, regardless of gender, is not called democracy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak to you as the father of a wonderful daughter, who, like your daughters, i wish to live in a world where she is respected as a human being, where she is treated equally and where she is never discriminated against because of the gender she was born with and where she is not a victim of violence of any kind. in this spirit and with these thoughts, i say firmly: the commission of the european union must ensure that the istanbul convention is ratified as soon as possible. while our good intentions are limited to the obviously necessary steps we take in the european parliament, victims sometimes suffer with lifelong consequences. that is why i ask you, please, to urgently take these steps, and we in our countries, every day, to speak and fight to be with the victims.
mr president the intersection of political and economic interests, if the european institutions speak of themselves, is called lobbying, not corruption. corruption is only blamed on the member states. the aim is always to further expand the eu's competences and to exert political and economic pressure. the eu institutions will avoid any external control by the member states in order to ensure that this does not inadvertently threaten their powers and objectives. therefore, the creation of a new independent ethics body can be supported under two conditions. if they fully respect our treaties, our common treaties, and give the member states the appropriate powers.
mr. chairman, i too want to make a statement on this subject. i personally welcome the idea that there is finally a concrete proposal for what such an independent ethics body of the european union should look like. because the debate we're having here is important, but it's terribly general. and especially with these organs, what we say in the czech republic is true, the devil is buried in the detail. mrs. jourova understands what that means to me. that means, what's important is what that particular proposal looks like. this means how such a body would function, what powers it would have and what options it would have in establishing, but also enforcing, ethical rules. i welcome the idea, but i warn against the creation of a new body, paid for by european taxpayers, which is virtually toothless and will not work. so i hope what was said is true. and for that, i thank mrs jour very much that we will soon be discussing a specific proposal to find a solution that will be effective, that will really help to reduce the danger of grey lobbying by former officials and politicians of the european union, but also by current ones. on the other hand, we will find a solution that respects the autonomy of the european institutions and does not replace the role of the criminal justice authorities, because cases like qatargate are, quite simply, and rightly, investigated by the police, the public prosecutor's office and the court decides on the guilt. we can establish bodies here that will reduce the risk of such possible illegal actions, until the stage of the case that we are dealing with and debating here. so i very much welcome the idea, but we really need to see how such an organ will actually work, and i look forward to this debate.
mr president, at the beginning of this parliamentary term the commission promised to put forward a proposal for the establishment of an independent european ethics body. but it took a corruption scandal that shook the citizens' confidence to bring the issue back to the table. why should we be afraid to take a clear stand for integrity? why should anti-european populists have something to point their fingers at? we have models in the european union. romania, for example, has a national integrity agency that independently assesses possible conflicts of interest and possible revolving door cases. does anyone have anything to hide behind office doors? then let's open them wide. not for russia's money or qatar's. it's for integrity checks. otherwise, sure, we can work in industry or lobby, but i'm afraid, ladies and gentlemen, we don't have much of a place in a public mandate.
mr president, madam vice-president, the initiative to set up an ethics authority for meps, commissioners and other european officials, which would ensure clear rules for conflicts of interest, is late, but indispensable. it no longer goes by half measures, with different interpretations of facts that citizens perceive as unjustified privileges or conflicts of interest. after the corruption scandal in which our colleagues were caught by prosecutors with money in their sacks, the entire credibility of the european union is at stake. we complain about the lack of credibility in front of the citizens. now we have the opportunity to demonstrate that we will all respect clear rules of transparency and that our actions have only one interest: the collective interest and not the individual one. i am glad that the text of the resolution also refers to the national investigating authorities - we need to involve them too - and to the european public prosecutor, because the more ethical cleaning methods we have in the european institutions, the stronger europe will be.
mr president, madam president, high representative, dear colleagues. one year ago, russia unravelled a plan, which we now know was in the making for many years. putin’s frustration with history went back to the ussr, to the breakdown of yugoslavia, to the bucharest nato summit and, in general, to the moment when he looked himself in the mirror and thought he was not big enough for the rest of the world to fear. therefore, he had to rewrite history at any cost. in order to do so, he lied and he killed, and he will continue to lie and to kill until we give ukraine the arms they need to stop him. in direct contrast, we heard president zelenskyy speak to this house just last week. we all saw his determination and dedication to ukraine’s european hopes. this is the type of leader that is big enough – and not for others to fear, but to follow and feel proud to bring to the eu table. we must continue to support him, match his level of ambition when it comes to eu integration and be bolder in our actions. be bold like ukraine is.
madam president, the use of wiretapping technologies against independent journalists goes against the most basic principles of democracy and is a key feature of a police state regime. journalists must be able to work without fearing for their own safety, and their sources must remain protected under all circumstances. this is something that the greek government should hear and understand if it claims to protect the rule of law. the scandal in greece confirms once more that the eu needs strong and clear legislation giving workers in the media sector the right tools to face the pressure and counter the threats to their independence. this is exactly why we need the european media freedom act. the act responds to the pressing challenges the media are currently facing by banning the use of spyware in journalists’ devices and allowing us to sanction such practices. the european media freedom act can become an essential part of our framework for safeguarding european values. we owe it to the journalists, to those who support the free press, and to all those who fight to defend the rule of law in europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, minister, if we are to achieve a real and sustainable energy transition, we must absolutely strengthen both our internal competitiveness and our independence from other states, including china and the united states. europe currently supplies less than 1% of lithium batteries and only 2% of robotics raw materials. critical raw materials are used in key industrial sectors, including steelmaking, defence, aviation and healthcare. and these essential raw materials are mainly imported from a limited number of third countries, thus making us totally dependent on them. but there 's more . these raw materials are also essential to ensure the achievement of the european green deal. however, the global market is not currently able to meet the demand, which is growing rapidly. the increase in the price of raw materials is not only a problem for businesses, but above all for citizens, who bear the final cost of the product of the service. i thank you, commissioner, because i am sure that you will have great sensitivity and great cooperation on this from all of us.
the commission has already done so. yesterday we voted in this house to end the combustion engine. i was against it and could have lived a lot better with a target of 90%. now we need to make sure that this green and digital transformation is successful. and to do that, we need the critical raw materials like lithium, cobalt, nickel, to name a few. if the greens - who are absent from this house today - supported by the liberals and socialists, continue to waste precious time and money on access to the raw materials they need, then i am absolutely devastated. we need trade agreements now with chile, mexico, australia, mercosur. and we now need the necessary strategic partnerships with countries with which a comprehensive trade agreement is not possible in the short term. those who are now standing up and making excuses to further impede access to critical raw materials are responsible for us missing the train to create the sustainable transition. and yes, it will also be their responsibility if we miss our shared climate goals.
madam president, critical raw materials are essential for the deployment of the technologies that enable green and digital transitions and for building the economy of the future. this is why the upcoming crm act must not only be ambitious, but also in line with our industrial strategy and broader supply chain diversification. today, the totalitarian regime of the chinese communist party controls roughly 60 % of the world's production of rare earth minerals and materials. those resources include lithium, cobalt and other elements crucial for making electric vehicles, batteries or semiconductors. i am glad that the union finally woke up to the need to diversify our supply chains. we need to use global gateway and other opportunities to invest and work with our allies to access critical raw materials. but we need to also ensure that this diversification does not lead to new dependencies and human rights breaches.
madam president, i agree with my colleagues that without resources, the green transition cannot really be managed. it is clear that it is impossible, if not broken. and it's important to say that raw material sovereignty is essential. we should definitely do much more in the field of our diplomacy, because we cannot solve our raw material needs by a circular economy or by securing supplies from friendly countries. we need to ensure that raw materials diplomacy is also applied in this field, as russia unfortunately does. look at all the places foreign minister lavrov drives. i think we can expect our diplomatic service to be more involved in africa and other countries. so i would definitely appeal to that. we must not forget the environmental impact, but let's engage all the policies we have at our disposal.
member of the commission. – madam president, colleagues, this has been a very grounded debate and also a very sobering one. i think that’s no harm because i think we have to get to grips with what faces us, and it is not an easy task because access to strategic, critical raw materials is not guaranteed unless we take action. but i’m going to sober you all up a little bit more, because the truth is that europe is not the only continent looking for access to these critical raw materials. there is a race for access and therefore we have to act fast and effectively. if i give you some examples, the demand for lithium is expected to rise 18 times by 2030. demand for rare earths alone will increase fivefold by 2030. demand for graphite is expected to increase 14 times by 2030. so i really appreciated in this debate a broad approach to what lies ahead. yes, of course, global gateway is really important to build and develop partnerships to diversify our supplies. mining in europe is also an issue we have to talk about, and of course, it has to be done in the correct way. i do want to thank the swedish presidency for inviting the commission to kiruna. the fact that i slept in an ice house is just another story, but it kept me awake. the third point is circularity and recycling is key. i remember when i was in this house, some of the more important debates happened with a few of us in the chamber. in my view, this is the most critical debate for our future, and we need to make it mainstream. i think all of you who have contributed to this debate with many different views are… it’s been really important to get the message out that we have a challenge ahead. we have to move away from harmful fossil fuels, so we will need access to strategic, critical raw materials. that will not happen by accident. we have to work hard, and i expect and i hope that this parliament will work with us and the council to achieve our objectives.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you for this debate on a topic that rightfully deserves our attention. i was glad to hear that we share the same concern regarding the role of critical raw materials in the green and digital transition. the acceleration of the twin transition will speed up the increase in european and global demand for strategic critical raw material. the eu therefore needs to act urgently to ensure that we can secure the critical raw materials it will need in the future. as a representative of the swedish government. i have obviously hope that we can play a part in doing so. thus, we need to work on several levels. we need to increase our own mining to satisfy this demand and reduce our dependencies on china and others. at the same time, we need we have to use these resources in an efficient and sustainable way, including, of course, recycling and sustainable trade links. speeding up our road towards electrification and climate neutrality requires both, not either or. the council looks forward to receiving the proposal from the commission very soon and will examine it without delay. i would like to say thank you for the debate and i assure you, commissioner, this is a critical debate and i'm very glad to have had all of your attention.
in writing. securing the supply of critical raw materials is undoubtedly of particular importance, not only for their importance to the european economy, but also for security and geopolitics. demand for critical raw materials is projected to grow steadily in the coming years: for example, the european commission estimates that europe will need 60 times more lithium and 15 times more cobalt by 2050. meanwhile, during the covid-19 pandemic and the russian brutal invasion of ukraine, we have seen firsthand how painful disruptions to the supply of critical natural resources can be. it is therefore necessary to develop resilient and diversified sources of supply of these raw materials. in the long term, however, it is necessary to ensure the union's autonomy in this area by focusing on its own extraction and processing capacities, investments in new technology and the recycling of raw materials. in this context, i am very pleased to announce the european commission's proposal for a critical raw materials act, which i hope will be the answer to the challenges we face.
in writing. for the socialists, it is a central and geo-strategic issue, as these materials are key to the digital and energy transitions and to industries in those sectors, such as renewable energy technology, electronics, aerospace and defence. in addition, both production and processing are now highly concentrated, and the european union is heavily dependent on imports, creating dependencies that threaten to undermine strategic autonomy. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the concept of 'commodity'. we must also continue to build strategic alliances with like-minded countries to ensure secure and sustainable access to critical raw materials that enable climate neutrality. in short, we must prevent the eu from replacing its dependence on fossil fuels with a dependence on raw materials.
in writing. critical raw materials - such as lithium and graphite - and rare earths are considered crucial for the green and digital transition, as new technologies rely on their use. according to the world bank and a recent study published by the international energy agency, global demand for critical raw materials will increase by 500% by 2050, which will bring exponential costs of these raw materials' prices and increased risks to supply chains. very few of these materials are found in europe, and unfortunately, for most of them we depend on china, russia, brazil, australia, congo. these are countries that are not very willing to give us those materials at a reasonable price, and so we wonder if the green deal can be supported in implementation. in the new geo-political context, the situation is even more pressing. i hope that the swedish presidency, in cooperation with the ec, will provide us with the legislative proposal on critical raw materials. this proposal should be a combination of industrial and social policies, preserving jobs in industrial areas. moreover, there should also be a cross-cutting component related to ecology, sustainable development and compliance with international commitments on mitigating the impact of climate change.
in writing. for the socialists, it is a central and geo-strategic issue, as these materials are key to the digital and energy transitions and to industries in those sectors, such as renewable energy technology, electronics, aerospace and defence. in addition, both production and processing are now highly concentrated, and the european union is heavily dependent on imports, creating dependencies that threaten to undermine strategic autonomy. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the concept of 'commodity'. we must also continue to build strategic alliances with like-minded countries to ensure secure and sustainable access to critical raw materials that enable climate neutrality. in short, we must prevent the eu from replacing its dependence on fossil fuels with a dependence on raw materials.
in writing. we have been looking forward to the presentation of the guidelines for the future european critical raw materials act. the eu's massive dependence and short-circuiting of supply chains, in the pandemic and now in war, is forcing us to take measures to encourage extraction in the eu and diversify our sources of supply. internally, we need simplified procedures for authorisation of extraction and processing, aid for this type of investment, but also improved recycling. externally, i understand that there is a desire to create a club between the eu and other states and organizations for access to raw materials. i believe that the priority must be to establish direct partnerships that are as effective and beneficial as possible for the eu. i hope that on 8 march, when the european commission is due to make a communication on this legislative act, we will have more concrete elements of the eu's response, not only to the current degree of near-total dependence on imports, but also to the prospect of accelerated growth in demand for critical raw materials. the commission estimates that the digital and green transition will increase demand by 500% by 2030 in the eu. in this context i ask: is the pace of change to which the commission is committing the european union sustainable?
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, what does this putin who is a coward and a man who has earned his place in history alongside stalin and other criminals who haunted europe really want? he wants one simple thing: to turn russia into a gulag. but as long as there are people like navalny, willing to sacrifice for the dignity of his people, we must not confuse the current murderous regime in the kremlin with the russian people. and it's essential that we convey these messages of solidarity with political prisoners in russia. little is and will remain a murderer. he must be stopped from this delusion that he has now created. he wants only one thing: to turn russia into a gulag and, of course, to terrorize europe every day. but he will not succeed, just as he failed to occupy ukraine in just a few weeks, as he had intended.
mr. president, we have come to the point of balance and we realize that we have made a mistake, creating a dangerous dependence on just a few fertilizer manufacturers. today, we have very few options to get out of the crisis quickly, because we have sanctioned the producers that we exclusively rely on, russia and belarus, and we are at the mercy of others who have deliberately reduced their exports: china. and we never worried about the european fertilizer producers, letting them die, in a non-competitive market, and then giving them the final blow in an energy crisis that we were unable to stop in time. so we hit a vital sector, the food security sector. the commission's proposal for an immediate response to the fertiliser crisis is necessary but not sufficient. our food security can only be guaranteed on two conditions: if europe finds long-term solutions to ensure its autonomy in fertilisers and soil nutrients and if it solves the problem of double standards, which discourages and even annihilates a large part of the agricultural sector, that of eastern europe and the baltic states. i thank the rapporteurs that my amendment on completing the external convergence process is part of the resolution we are voting on today, but it also requires the intervention of the commission to convince at political level those states which are staunchly opposed to the equalization of subsidies from the east and the west. this desire, long promised and never fulfilled, has become a kind of schengen for agriculture and i believe that the discrimination against reliable partners must be stopped once and for all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all let me thank mr lins for his work and for having been able to draw attention to a very serious emergency which may involve risks which we must remedy. a global fertilizer crisis like the one we're experiencing hasn't been seen since the 1970s. the first pandemic and the war and energy crisis that followed not only reduced fertilisers but also increased them, in some cases by as much as 150%, thus causing serious difficulties for the entire agri-food chain and a loss of competitiveness vis-à-vis farmers in third countries. imports from russia and belarus, which supply over 60% of the eu's fertilisers, have fallen sharply and the rising production costs of synthetic fertilisers have forced many european producers to reduce their activities or even to suspend production. in addition to all this, we in this house are even insisting on further reductions in fertilisers, in order to achieve environmental sustainability objectives, which are acceptable, but in the meantime we are not finding an alternative solution and we are not worried that today's shortage of fertilisers will affect tomorrow's production, with a growing world population and with repercussions on food availability and our food security, unless someone is convinced that the solution is synthetic production or the consumption of insects. our farmers are in the midst of an economic crisis and a remedy must be found, which is something that the cap will probably not be able to support, given that there is inflation which is reducing its impact. the commission has already announced that it will be presenting a report on the situation in the community in the light of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the situation in the community.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, just yesterday this house adopted our position on the chips act, with the aim of establishing europe as a key player in the global semiconductor arena, strategic in the digital and green transition. this is the europe we want, the europe we want for our citizens, capable of identifying its own shortcomings and of resolving them, in order to achieve genuine strategic autonomy. on the contrary, we are still holding on to a commission communication on fertilisers, which seems to ignore that 50% of our food, and consequently the food security of european citizens, is based on the use of quality fertilisers. i would like to thank our president, mr linz, and all the rapporteurs who have worked on the text we are about to vote on, calling for an ambitious and concrete response to stop the run on fertiliser prices and ensure that fertiliser is available to meet the needs of our farms. the union can put in place solutions immediately and quickly, such as investing in all the available alternatives that can guarantee the competitiveness and production capacity of european agri-foodstuffs, by eliminating those constraints, such as the 170 kg nitrogen per hectare threshold, which still limits the use of organic fertilisers, and the development of real circular economy systems based on the exploitation of digestate. in the face of this emergency, which affects european countries, businesses and households unequally, we need a european response capable of supporting our production system and guiding it towards ever greater sustainability and independence in the most critical productions.
mr president, commissioner, the war in ukraine has a major impact on european farmers, and especially those in eastern europe, who are directly affected by the consequences of the war. the current crisis has once again demonstrated the need for a european response to this crisis in the first place, but also the need for a long-term vision for key agricultural production sectors. the commission's communication comes with some immediate solutions that farmers need, but european farmers still need long-term measures, a long-term strategic vision on soil fertility, on nutrients in the soil. we need to develop fertiliser production capacity in europe and especially to integrate the expectations we have from farmers, because the commission will come up with a legislative proposal on soil health, on reducing pesticides, reducing chemicals in the soil. all of this requires an integrated vision and that is what farmers expect from the european commission. we can't just put constraints on farmers without also offering them alternatives, and long-term alternatives that we can invest in, because we give predictability.
madam president, commissioner, in september 2022 the price of fertilisers increased by 149% and a large number of european producers had to reduce or even stop production. this, combined with the influx of grain from ukraine to the single market at low prices and inflation, is putting increasing pressure on our farmers, especially those who receive lower subsidies. i would point out that in the countries of the union in the vicinity of ukraine, including romania, in many cases the selling price of cereals already does not cover production costs. we are therefore in a very delicate situation and the measures set out by the commission in its communication at the end of last year were only a good start, but it is absolutely wrong to think that they were sufficient. that is why i want to reiterate the call i made to the european commission last week, together with 48 fellow meps, to provide farmers with additional short-term financial support using the cap 2023 emergency reserve and other funds you need to identify as soon as possible, and to address this issue when the eu budget is revised from 2021 to 2027. in the medium and long term, however, we need to establish a clear plan to reduce our dependence on imports and develop fertiliser production in the european union, both by developing projects in countries with natural gas reserves such as romania and by stimulating the production of alternative fertilisers, such as organic, natural and those obtained from renewable energy.
madam president, commissioner, i am a doctor, an emergency doctor in iasi, romania, nicolae oblu emergency clinical hospital, and in my view we have two extremely important problems today: one that concerns public health and one that concerns european security. so we have to ensure affordable food for all european citizens. and this, mind you, at affordable prices! so, commissioner, i want you to know that i am inviting you to iasi, iasi, romania, because i want you to hear directly the grievances of romanian farmers about the subsidy different from other european countries, about the fact that energy prices have risen exponentially, about the fact that the price of fertilisers has taken off like a rocket from the ground. and yes, we are talking about simple, concrete, easy to implement solutions, and from my point of view you know that the revival of european production is extremely important and think about the romanian infrastructure in this area. on the other hand, i think it's time to rethink these subsidy policies and provide that emergency support for farmers, especially those on this eastern border of the european union, who are trying hard at this time, and i hope that once and for all what i proposed by renegotiating that national recovery and resilience program, will come into practice, because there are so many solutions that need to be reconsidered. a great romanian writer - and i want you to give me 10 seconds - marin preda, he said that if there is no love, there is nothing! i, as a doctor, can tell you that if there is no food, there is no health, and if there is no health, there is nothing!
mr president, the european union has always been a central player on the world stage in terms of industry and innovation, and the european single market is one of the most successful political achievements of the last century. but i voted with reservations precisely because the direction we have taken in recent years is one that makes us increasingly irrelevant, and because protectionist measures, subsidies and excessive state aid have made it impossible for the union's engine, namely competitiveness, to operate at its full potential. the union's environmental and social objectives are necessary, but they need to become much more realistic in relation to the global situation. if we do not focus more on strengthening industrial resilience, europe's attractiveness to investors and the union's competitiveness, it is not the citizens of the union who will benefit from our policies, but other major powers.
mr president, ten minutes ago a new government was sworn in in chisinau, republic of moldova, the recean government. also today, a new russian missile fell on the territory of the republic of moldova, which is being used in the unjust and brutal war against ukraine. it is essential that we stand with ukraine and the republic of moldova, which is increasingly threatened by moscow. and yesterday, lavrov, this molotov successor, took the liberty of threatening the chisinau administration again, accusing it of being too pro-european. i think russia doesn't understand that our unity is unshakable and it's essential that we stand with the republic of moldova, with ukraine, in this absolutely absurd war that the most odious tyrant of our times has unleashed in his name, putin.
mr president, with inflation averaging 8.4% in 2022 for the euro area, the european central bank has a very difficult task: to ensure financial equilibrium and price stability. after four rate hikes and with more in the pipeline, the cost of credit to citizens and smes has reached deeply worrying levels. obviously, this issue affects the states outside the euro area very much, and they feel and know this, because both romania and its citizens, whom i represent, are strongly affected by this whole situation related to inflation at european level. all eu countries also need a monetary policy that ensures stability and that ensures that our citizens and industry are the main actors to be protected by the actions of central banks.
madam president, commissioner simson, dear colleagues, we are here today to make another step towards a more sustainable and energy efficient way for living. what we aim to do today is to provide to citizens in the member states a complete toolbox to achieve a zero emission and fully decarbonised building stock by 2050. how this is going to be a realistic framework? first, by the facilitation of more targeted financing of investments in the building sector and second, by complementing other eu instruments, supporting, in that sense, vulnerable consumers and fighting energy poverty. this piece of legislation is at the nexus of the ‘fit for 55’ package. we have to admit that coming to a consensus was not an easy task for this proposal and i would like to congratulate all colleagues involved in this file, since we are very much aware about the fact that this is about an exercise which requires a framework for building renovation, where cost effectiveness, local circumstances and also the diversity of our buildings need to be considered. however, allow me to mention that by defining net—zero buildings, phasing out fossil fuel heating system in buildings by 2035 and if not feasible by 2040 at the latest, by ensuring also access to finance at favourable conditions, facilitating the deployment of financial instruments and innovative schemes, such as the european renovation loan or a european guarantee fund for building renovation, by finding a common ground on minimum energy performance standards, and by enhancing infrastructure for sustainable mobility, we finally achieved a compromise. commissioner simson, dear colleagues, we have set a solid basis for the accelerating efforts under the renovation wave to at least double the annual renovation rate by 2030, while shifting towards decarbonised buildings in the next few decades.
madam president, fight for the climate and defend the citizens. parliament is again setting an example of social ambition with this directive. buildings are responsible for 40% of energy consumption and it is essential to reduce this figure to save the planet. but i take particular pride in focusing our efforts on those who need it most. i am proud that energy-poor areas and vulnerable neighbourhoods are being taken into account in the focusing of european funds on investment. the reform of this directive on energy efficiency in buildings is also in line with the new european bauhaus: more energy savings in monthly bills, less pollution, better quality of life and climate comfort in buildings and homes, all of this by focusing efforts on what the poorest have. the adoption of this directive will contribute to a more climate-friendly and socially fair europe.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, when we talk about energy efficiency in new buildings, we can say that we are moving in a positive direction, we are changing design standards and we can have good energy efficiency. more than that, we can actually think about a design of what energy independence means for these buildings. when we talk about energy efficiency in old buildings, i can tell you, from my experience, from my 15 years as mayor in local government, making our buildings energy efficient, we've had positive results, positive results in what it means to reduce bills, positive results in what it means to make the product, which is gigacalories. and i think this positive theme can lead us in the direction of doing good energy efficiency. it's just that we have to be honest, and say that solidarity is needed. solidarity with what today means vulnerable people, solidarity with rural people, because to convince these people to invest in their buildings, we need european support. that is why energy efficiency linked to solidarity is needed.
in writing. i support the objectives of the new legislation proposed by the european commission, but i do not agree with the timelines for the imposition of minimum energy performance standards. aid against energy poverty, support for building renovation campaigns and the introduction of energy performance standards are all essential in the european union, with buildings consuming 40% of the eu's energy and almost 75% of the european building stock currently being energy inefficient. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. once again, the european commission is setting unsustainable deadlines, just like the switch to electric motors or the switch to natural gas. i note with regret, once again, both the european commission's tendency to over-regulate and its dogmatism that is out of step with the citizens' agenda. i hope that the negotiations with the council will lead to the adjustment of this legislative reform, which should actually be aimed at supporting citizens and not burdening them further, in an already tense social and energy context.
the rapporteur. for many years, young people and scientists have warned that time is running out and that it is time to act before it is too late, to avoid major climate-related tragedies worldwide. that time is now. we are at the forefront of the fight against climate change. we see disasters all around us all the time, caused by climate extremes and the point of no return is too close. this is the moment, and we pledge to be at the forefront, as leaders, to do everything we can to save the only planet that human life can live on. we all take care that the homes in which we live and raise our children are safe; and this is the attitude we want to have towards our world. and not just like that: it is a priority for us to remain so despite everything that is happening around us. we cannot fall for the populist narrative of conservatives who, in times of crisis, immediately turn against the environmental transition. let's be clear: this parliament cannot fall for that trap. there is no pause button in the climate emergency. time is running out and climate disasters are getting worse: record high summer temperatures, fires burning our forests, record rainfall floods in the shortest of times. this is the reality not only of the world, but also of our europe. that was for conservatives, we stop acting against climate change to focus on other crises, and we want to succeed, not fail. we are not prepared to fail in this greatest challenge facing man. we know what the repercussions are and we know who is most affected. who had the courage to take responsibility and make the decisions? we were and we want to remain responsible. the citizens' call is clear: looking the other way is certainly not an option. and we are ready. willing, yes, to shoulder that responsibility and ready to make decisions, even the toughest ones. this is what will determine whether our children will have any future to enjoy. and the european union was born to tackle global challenges together. that is the europe we believe in, and that is the europe we socialists in this parliament are working for. but at the same time, we must listen to the cries of european citizens about the price increases in europe after the pandemic and because of the war, which are leading to exorbitant energy bills almost all over europe, and as socialists we will stay close to european citizens, because no one should have to choose between a basic need and another basic need. and we are taking action to address these difficulties also through tools that help with financial aid. we will be using the social climate fund to help those who don't have it to heat their homes, help renovate more efficient homes, and help people buy clean vehicles. we are addressing today's challenges and preparing for tomorrow's challenges. and that is what we are doing through the 'fit for 55' package, which was a privilege for me to be entrusted with the market stability reserve law by this parliament - an important addition to the package of measures. through this law we sought stability. the stability that european families and businesses want. and so let's keep the rate of double intake at which quotas are put into reserve until 2030. this is a natural and necessary step for the mechanism to achieve the climate targets we have agreed to achieve by 2030. this will give us a stronger system for trading emissions allowances that is robust and resilient. if we did nothing, we would weaken the ets system, with the consequence of remaining dependent on fossil fuels and, consequently, on russia. our direction is one of energy independence, through renewable energy, and this will remain our priority. a strong europe, an independent europe, an environmental europe and a competitive europe.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on agriculture and rural development. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think it was an important sign in november that we had reached an agreement before or during cop 27 with lulucf and the esr, and that we had sent a signal to sharm al-sheikh. i want to emphasize again that agriculture and forestry are the only sectors that not only generate emissions but are also able to capture carbon. it is happening in the forest, it is happening in the green area, it is happening in agriculture in many ways in the european union. in the field of forestry, i would particularly stress that active, sustainable forest management is the one that ensures carbon storage, ensures sustainable wood products and can thus provide climate protection in the long term. the agreement at 310 million tonnes is very ambitious. the member states will have to make a great effort to achieve these objectives. i would also like to emphasize once again that for me forestry, agriculture and arable farming are one and the same. i think it is right that the commission wanted to think it through together. i also think it's important that there's a review clause in there for afolu until 2035. so i think the merger of agriculture and forestry is important, even if it has not now won a majority in either the council or the european parliament. i think our lesson has to be that we have to listen more to farmers, to foresters -- the very ones who can actively make sure that we achieve carbon sequestration. but it is also important to me that we achieve this better, particularly in the process now under way on carbon farming, on the certification that the commission has proposed, and that we work with the farmers there to create incentives to move forward on carbon sequestration. but natural sinks have a limit. we need a framework for ccu and ccs as well. technical methods will therefore continue to be important.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you to the three rapporteurs for their work and making an agreement possible on these key pieces of legislation. my appeal to this parliament, from left to right, is to please acknowledge that the climate crisis should transcend political differences; that the climate crisis is not a crisis you can sort of forget for a bit because there are other crises. we should unite in our common efforts to fight this crisis because the climate crisis has the propensity to make all the other crises worse if it is not tackled. increasingly, we are aware of a geopolitical dimension of the climate crisis – how it can engender conflict, how it can engender huge migration flows, how it can engender a race for water and food, which would, by definition, create violent conflict. so please, please acknowledge this and let’s not draw the climate crisis into a left-right controversy or a political controversy between political parties. and i have to say, parliament has shown great responsibility in finding compromises on these issues. and i have to also say: we still have a lot of work to do. so if we remain committed towards more ambitious climate action to reach climate neutrality by 2050, as set out in the climate law, then we have to act. the climate laws are a compass to 2050. it sets an irreversible path towards climate neutrality and guides all sectors of the economy in their efforts to decarbonise. we all collectively have a responsibility to make sure we prepare europe for the transition. with the choices we’ve all agreed on the effort sharing and lulucf regulations as well as on the msr, we make the most ambitious, consistent and socially fair choices to drive the decarbonisation of our economy. the effort sharing regulation will ensure that member states cut their emissions by 40% by 2030 in sectors currently responsible for 60% of the eu’s emissions. the lulucf regulation will ensure that we make full use of the emissions removal potential of our land and forests. due to the changes in the effort sharing and lulucf regulations – and the ets obviously – agreed by the co-legislators, we are on track to achieve 57% reductions rather than 55%, which is an outstanding achievement. so, as parliament always wished that we would say ‘at least 55’, it is now being proven by the facts. the compromises you will vote tomorrow are therefore key to deliver on our objective to become climate neutral by 2050. now we must make sure that the agreed package is adopted and implemented as soon as possible. let me briefly stress some key aspects of the three compromises. the lulucf deal is a milestone for european carbon sinks in the land sector. we’ve set an overall eu-level objective of 310 metric tonnes of net removals, and the honourable representative, mr lins, is right when he says that this is a tall order, but it can be done. i would like to highlight another element: better and more accurate data lead to more effective policy decisions. improved monitoring and tracking of changes in carbon stock are specifically required for areas under the spotlight – such as biodiversity protection and restoration goals – and thereby contribute to protecting and enhancing nature-based carbon removal. so the commission is grateful for the support of parliament on the improved monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions and removals by using digital technologies along the lines of our proposal. on esr, let me first stress the remarkable support that this house has shown to translate the fit for 55 ambition in the new effort sharing emission reduction targets for the union and the member states. both co-legislators contributed to this excellent result and i am very happy that the general architecture of the commission’s proposal is maintained. the text negotiated by parliament requires member states to achieve more reductions earlier on with balanced flexibilities. the compromise also reflects parliament’s striving for transparency and accountability, with a reinforced compliance framework ensuring a fair and just transition. we don’t have the luxury to leave anyone behind. the text negotiated with the council strikes the right balance between ambition and feasibility. 2030 is around the corner and the energy crisis only shows the need to accelerate the transition. the revised effort sharing regulation sets a clear path for member states to now plan and implement climate policies and actions in relevant sectors – road transport, buildings, agriculture and waste. so this house did an impressive job, and i would like to thank and congratulate the negotiating team for having worked well. and let’s not forget – extremely fast – for both lulucf and effort sharing, the commission has issued a statement during negotiations in relation to the assessment in its upcoming report on the review of the governance regulation of aspects related to access to justice in member states. access to justice remains an important support measure to help deliver the european green deal and a way to strengthen the role which civil society can play as a watchdog in the democratic space. finally, very briefly, on the market stability reserve: it’s a small but important element of the fit for 55 package. it’s been a very successful instrument to absorb the structural surplus of allowances in the carbon market. and for it to act faster, the percentage of allowances in circulation to be placed in the msr has been temporarily doubled from 12% to 24% until 2023. without the proposal under discussion today, it would revert back to 12%. to continue reducing the surplus, ensuring market resilience, we proposed to maintain the doubled intake rate of 24%, as now agreed by the co-legislators. this provides predictability and maintains a well-functioning carbon market, which is a carbon market that step by step has to become a global carbon market for all the world to reduce their emissions.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal. mr president, mr president of the commission, as negotiator for the committee on industry, i would like to thank all those who took part in the negotiations. this lulucf result is very much in line with the line taken by the itre committee on industry in its own opinion. the main objective of the law is to increase european carbon stocks by 15% by 2030. it is a very challenging goal and an ambitious goal, but it is achievable. it is true that this requires active sustainable forestry and indeed the consideration of the cultivation of charcoal forests throughout europe. while the importance of carbon sinks in combating climate change cannot be overstated, the most important thing is to get rid of all fossil fuels very quickly. it's the long-term solution. at the same time, we must take action to increase carbon stocks, develop measures to reduce carbon emissions, invest in research and develop technological solutions. it is good that in this reform the calculation method has now also been renewed and clarified and we can use more recent statistical data as a basis for this.
rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. mrs mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed legislative package is and can only be described as a deliberate and ritualistic economic suicide of europe. the green transition under this form is some kind of mirage. the transport sector will be particularly hard hit. personal mobility will be further restricted, while at the same time the transport industry will collapse because of rising fuel prices and impossible environmental standards. private cars, cheap and affordable airline tickets are history and can only be afforded by either the very rich or those paid for by the european commission. this is the utopian, wonderful new world that the european commission and part of this extreme group here in the european parliament are offering us. obviously, colleagues, you and i live in different worlds. you obviously don't care how your ordinary citizens live, who just want a car so they can get around. and obviously you didn't understand that the earth is round, and if what happens is what happens -- you give business to china and you give jobs to china, and the earth is round, and if china pollutes, it pollutes the whole earth. and you're losing jobs here. i can't explain it logically. there is no logic, no explanation. there are two words that come to mind. one is lobbying, the other is deliberate economic de-industrialisation of europe. choose one of the two.
rapporteur for the opinion, committee on regional development. madam president, commissioner, this legislative package must offer the possibility of adaptation for each country, for each region in particular, because only by taking into account the regional specifics will we be able to have the desired effects. of course we want a european economy that is as low-polluting as possible, and we voted for the green deal in 2019, but we still want a strong economy. our ambitions for prosperity, social standards and even environmental ambitions will not be achieved without adequate funding, and this cannot be achieved without the significant input of industry and the support of people. the last few years have shown us that we need industrial autonomy, and the way the global geopolitical map is now transforming must lead to even greater attention to an economic and ecological balance. the rules, prohibitions and limits we impose will not be able to be respected unless we build a real dialogue that results in realistic and achievable goals. i hope we can find the kind of rapid adaptation that is needed in these troubled times.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the european union's road map for implementing the objectives of the paris agreement on climate change, the european parliament must give its opinion on the results of the interinstitutional negotiations on certain legislative proposals. the objective of drastically reducing greenhouse gas emissions is the right one. but again, the tools offered do not always match the stated ambitions. while the development of carbon sinks to better maintain and protect our forests against over-harvesting and concrete is a great step forward, i am much more critical about strengthening the tools that make market logic, again, not planning, our ecological bifurcation. since its inception, the carbon market has had marginal effects on reducing emissions. worse still, some industrialists have hijacked the money and sold off their pollution rights for a profit. we have achieved the feat of going from polluter-pays to polluter-pays. this is not serious. it was the same logic that went into the so-called border carbon tax, which is not a border carbon tax. it held out great hopes for protecting our strategic sectors, for producing more in europe with better social and environmental standards. but in the end, the cbam has just once again expanded the carbon market to the rest of the world, which is not the solution. in conclusion, reducing our emissions is crucial, but to do that, we need to change the software. we can no longer wait for the market to decide for us, but plan and regulate for ourselves in the public interest.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is a global emergency affecting countries on all continents through economic shocks, extreme weather and rising sea levels. the greatest policy project of our time is to try to limit these effects through ambitious reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, while still ensuring a just transition and the competitiveness of our economies. the following national objectives are important: the agricultural land, the pastures, the wetlands must become a source of net removal. food must be more climate-friendly. more sustainable forest management systems need to be introduced. we must restore degraded land. enough with the land consumption, but enough with the recessionary policies. public revenues must be channelled to support individual farmers who practice practices that respect biodiversity.
madam president, dear mr timmermans, dear colleagues, we should remain strongly committed to green deal and fit for 55 strategic goals, but we need to find the best solutions to implement these objectives in the new economic and geopolitical context. we need to take care of our industries, our companies. they should remain competitive worldwide, and the cost of energy for our citizens should remain decent. the overall compromise on ets and other associated files is better than the original proposal, and i would like to thank, once again, mr liese for that. on msr in particular, the file that i followed, 12% was good at the beginning, but assessments showed it was not enough and that 24% worked better. therefore, when negotiating the file with my colleagues in envi this time, we reached the agreement that msr should be maintained at 24% as to avoid shocks and to ensure complementarity, coherence and effectiveness in achieving the 2030 and 2050 climate ambition. that’s why i would like to thank also mr engerer, the rapporteur, for his work on keeping the mandate of the parliament clear during negotiations and assuring that the intake of 24% is maintained and not increased beyond 2023 and until the end of phase iv. this will ensure market predictability and serve as a bridge in the next years and also will contribute to achieve our goals without putting in danger the competitiveness of our industries and our companies.
i have to say, madam president, it's not often, but today, as a swede and a liberal, i want to speak to you in german. i never thought i'd have to explain to germany the value of climate action. germany! but if the entire future of the fit for 55 package is at stake, then that requires extreme measures. i look at you and i address you, the german government. fit for 55 is our roadmap for the future. but it is a fragile house, in a delicate balance. if you take out a very important part, it collapses. and when i say house, i mean our climate action, our future. it is absolutely irresponsible to block critical elements of the laws that have already been agreed. i am speaking to you as a swede, as a member of parliament, as a young european, as a liberal. please stand up for the "fit for 55" package and stop blocking the central element of our climate package, the end of the burner.
thank you for the speech in excellent german.
madam president, mr timmermans, this is the first time that a romanian member of parliament has spoken as a european green, but it is not the first time that a romanian member of parliament has spoken about climate change, which he believes in and which we must address. the climate crisis is here, but every crisis can also be an opportunity, an opportunity for progress. we just need to give people clarity and we need to speak humanly, in romanian, as we say at home. i'll give you an example: the green house program in romania. on tv we are told that people do not want a green transition. but the reality is that tens of thousands of families have already applied to green house and want to put solar panels on their homes and save on their bills. but the government and the companies don't let people become producers, those prosumers, as they say in this brussels language, that is in the year when the energy companies made record profits, they don't let others produce for them. they're the problem. that's the problem. europe is not the problem, climate change is not the problem, the problem is those who resist a very clear reality and direction of the world we live in.
mr president, mr first vice-president timmermans, on 8 december last year the council of the european union committed an unprecedented abuse of rights in the european union, because the jha council was invaded by the commission proposal, voted here in parliament, for croatia, romania and bulgaria to be accepted into the schengen area. unfortunately, the council decided that only croatia deserves to be accepted, and 27 million europeans in romania and bulgaria continue to be discriminated against. i call on the european commission to be more firm in defending the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union, because it is unacceptable that a single state blocks our natural right to enjoy freedom of movement, as 420 million europeans do. this approach is unacceptable. we are complicit in this by our silence, and i think it is time to step up, to force governments to stop blocking the free movement of 27 million europeans.
mr president, commissioner timmermans, under the leadership of ursula von der leyen, the eu will turn, through the european digital identity wallet, from an area of freedom into an open-air prison camp. in a prison camp, the detainees are stripped of their personal identity and become numbers. they have no privacy nor intimacy, and they are free to choose only from the options decided for them. they are also constantly monitored to make sure that they behave accordingly. this is the digital prison developed in the eu through the digital identity wallet. this wallet can be applied to all areas of life and the potential of tracking user behaviour is a severe threat to the privacy of all eu citizens. from a command centre, a eurocrat will know all the health and financial data, as well as the daily interactions, of any eu citizen. this is not an area of freedom anymore, but a real tyranny that is using technology to mechanically customise all the citizens, transforming them into simple numbers towards total control. the eu citizens deserve better, which is why i urge the european parliament to reject the implementation of the european digital identity wallet.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. our citizens are suffering the most in the current economic and energy crisis. the commission has committed itself to presenting a proposal by the end of the year to ban caging and to provide a way forward for its phasing out. i don't think it's right for us to deal with this right now. we have rising prices of staple foods, we have shortages of vegetables, of protein, and that's when massive inflation is taking all the prices into the stratosphere. while i may sympathize with the thinking of the citizens who signed the citizens' initiative to end cage farming, we must think first of people and their welfare and not of the psychological survival of chickens or pigs. three times as many chickens die in the shed, and up to five times as many animals die in the free-range, and that's a really high number. but our people need to eat, they need to have access to healthy food and have enough of it. that's why this is no time for such inventions. but if we were to finally go for a ban, we need to have a long enough transition period, enough funds to help the farmer, and above all to think that we also need enough people to carry out these far more demanding farms, because there are already very few of them.
mr president, today in the european parliament we have paid tribute to the 57 people who died in the tempi train accident. the chances of this tragedy would have been reduced if the governments in greece had not reduced investments in the railway network after 2003, with more miserable years in 2014 and 2020. the tragedy could have been avoided, probably, if there had been proper coordination of investments. electric mobility has come, faster trains have come, but we're left with an outdated traffic control and safety system. the chances of the accident would also have been reduced if the greek government had implemented the european railway directive and avoided the referral of greece to the european court of justice by the european commission. the european commission has been institutionally correct, but it must exert more pressure by using european subsidies and funding on member states to adapt more quickly to european rules and best european practices that limit the chances of an accident.
mr president, the identity and democracy group takes note of the decision of the negotiators in the council to reposition their vote on legislation to end thermal vehicles by 2035. we are all the more aware of this decision because it is a decision of common sense. i would like to say that this is in every respect the position expressed by the identity and democracy group. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. is it imperative to reduce co2 emissions from transport? i know. is the all-electric policy a solution? i certainly don't. this is environmental nonsense, it will create a social catastrophe and the destruction of an industry in which europe is still a world leader. ladies and gentlemen, let us seize this flash of clarity from the council to finally adopt legislation that makes sense. invest in synthetic fuels and hydrogen produced from decarbonised, reliable and abundant sources. in short, let us regain our sovereignty so that all our fellow citizens do not pay the price of our decisions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the ecb's insistence on consecutive increases in interest rates has a brutal but uneven impact on workers, households, businesses and the economy of several member states. a particularly serious problem for households who have taken on debt to buy a house and in countries such as portugal where the variable rate of interest on housing loans is prevalent. the brutal increases in house prices and in a wide range of essential goods and services, the stagnating and low wages and pensions, the loss of purchasing power, exploitation, speculation and cartelism are increasing the profits of the large economic and financial groups in banking, energy, telecommunications and large retail, among others. the european commission and the council cannot continue to ignore the ecb's policies which, they acknowledge, have brutal impacts on households. we are calling for an oral question with debate to the commission and the council on the necessary and immediate measures to be taken in the face of ecb decisions, in particular by reflecting them on the profits of banks and not on workers. a debate that lacks a consensus between political groups. we therefore call for the timetable for such a relevant debate to be expedited.
mr president, to my regret, i have continued to speak about political prisoners in my country, latvia, since the wheel of repressions is not stopping. now, one month ago, it has captured the young student girl, tatjana andreyevs. her guilt is just activities to defend minority schools and to oppose the destruction of the monuments for the liberators of latvia from nazi occupiers. our state security service has an intention to show its necessity, especially before accepting the new state budget. they managed to receive a doubled budget for their activities with respect to the previous year. i think money has to be spent just for young, talented students like tatjana to integrate them into society, to give them social lifts, not to repress them.
mr. president, i had a speech prepared on a completely different topic, but i witnessed tonight what we see in this house happening far too often: the far right shaking hands with the far left and witnessing the help given to putin's russia. mr. terhes, europe is not a prison, where navalny is staying is a prison. mr. wallace said that putin is not the aggressor, but ukraine. how is it possible to hear something like that ? mrs. ždanoka, who just left, said that, you see, god, the russian minority is going to jail in estonia. we cannot tolerate these lies. there's no way to help the attacker. we have to help the aggressors. i was in romania and a citizen said to me: why don't we help romanians more? why do we care so much about the ukrainians? and i asked him the question: if it was a moldovan, would we have fought more for them? but, mick wallace, if it was about the global south, would we fight for the global south? likewise, we have every nation that we love. we can also imagine that it will be our brother who is being attacked. let's have more churchill and less chamberlain in this house.
mr president, mr first vice-president timmermans, we promote democratic values here in the european parliament and in the other european institutions. we promote fairness and equality among eu citizens. and that's exactly what we need to do. but we cannot talk about fairness and equality if all citizens of the union do not have equal rights, and we romanians and bulgarians do not have equal rights. romania's entry into the schengen area is emerging as an imperative necessity, especially against the backdrop of nationalist populism, increasingly vocal in recent times, strongly supported by disinformation and manipulation and even by putin. it is unacceptable that, after more than 16 years of membership of the european union, there are still states that question the application of the treaties with regard to the free movement of romanians. it's really revolting. we want equality, we want democracy! well, we must do everything in our power, each of us, to ensure that equal rights apply to romanians. it's not just about romania here, it's about the principles on which the european union itself was built, this peace project!
madam president, the european data act regulation, contrary to the declared numerous benefits it brings for citizens, is yet another brick in the construction of the digital tyranny in the eu under the leadership of ursula von der leyen, where people are stripped of their fundamental rights like privacy, anonymity, intimacy and transformed into serialised objects that are surveilled by the government every step of the way. when this draft legislation was published, the european commission claimed that it is benefiting the people. what benefits can people have from being mass tracked or profiled by the government or the eu institutions? the so-called benefits of this proposal, like providing personalised medicine, new mobility solutions and contributions to the european green deal, are just honey traps to implement mass monitoring and, later, control with this regulation. while this regulation is very keen to protect the interests of businesses like trade secrets, it is granting prerogative not only to governmental institutions but to eu institutions to request and receive data from any company that is generated by the users, which is unacceptable. the eu was established as an area of freedom and democracy, not an open air prison camp, which is why we need to reject the european data act regulation. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
blue-card reply. – thank you so much for this question, and thank you so much for offering me the opportunity to clarify the fact. i worked – before i was elected here – as a programmer, so i know exactly how this data is stored, so when you are claiming right now that you are providing access or control of the citizens over the data, that is false – because that data is not stored on their device and they do not have physical control over the data. the data is stored on a server or on a cloud. what this regulation does is allowing or granting access to any governmental agency or even eu institutions to access that data directly. that’s what the report says.
madam president, commissioner, i believe that after the health crisis, the economic crisis, the energy crisis, the security crisis, we are facing great challenges and i believe that it is essential to focus our attention on solving the problems facing our societies so that the recommendations of the european semester are applied exactly as they are intended to create a much more effective coordination to overcome all the vulnerabilities that the member states of the european union are going through. because the inflation, the social crises, the economic crises, the financial crises that europe is going through now can only be overcome through better coordination, and it is essential that member states, together with the commission, implement the necessary reforms so that our societies stop wasting money, focus on the vulnerabilities that citizens face when they want stability, better-paying jobs, and this can only be achieved through smart investment. europe has to face all the challenges it is facing now, and obviously we can only do this with smart investment and, of course, better coordination, so that competitiveness is the key word and we can defend our investments and, of course, plan for a future based on economic growth.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, council, the social pact between the institutions and the citizens is broken. the rules at european level are incapable of responding to the social crisis and, in fact, in their rigidity, they are frustrating the efforts made in recent years to achieve a genuine economic, territorial and social recovery. the european semester, like the stability and growth pact, is an outdated instrument that is an obstacle to social convergence. the principles of the european pillar of social rights have remained a dead letter. that is why we greens are calling for a reform of the economic governance framework, mandatory targets for the eradication of poverty and social exclusion and an assessment of the social impact of the plans of the various member states and of the money allocated by national governments. without the necessary fiscal space to get back to investing in education, health and inclusion measures, such as the minimum income, there can never be a just transition. the only chance we have is to start from social justice and we greens have clear ideas: it needs reform.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, in this crisis situation, people and only people may be at the forefront. the employment report calls on the member states to rapidly implement the provisions established in the minimum wage directive, saying that decent wages are an essential tool in helping households keep up with rising energy prices. let's take some examples of how these ideas are implemented. concerning my country, the commission launched the opinion that latvia has made limited progress with regards to the structural part of the fiscal recommendations. how does this limited progress look like? the minimum wage in latvia in 2023 was raised by 24% while remaining the quite low eur 620. meanwhile, the salary of the chairman of parliament has been raised by 75%, minister president by 53%, members of parliament by 34%. the salary of chairmen, therefore, is 13 times bigger than the minimum salary. really decent wages for the few and unworthy for the many. i think that the semester process needs a more thorough look at the elements of dispersion of wages and the just effective fight against poverty in general with a special focus on in-work poverty, direct support of most vulnerable groups. this is the solution which we need.
madam president, dear commissioner, dear minister, i need to observe right now that we have a lot of young people that are watching us right now, and they are visitors and there are much more of them than us as members of parliament or the commission or the council in this room. and this is a pity because they are really interested about this shift that we are talking about. the change of the semester. the semester is the way that people, the young people, everyone, are looking to see how we are shifting towards a sustainable, inclusive and resilient growth model. this debate is crucial. this is not just a technocratic thing that we’re doing here. the future of investment, if we want to do investment, cannot be foreseen without a social component that responds to the fears and expectations of the young generations and all the citizens in europe. we have to fight against all forms of social exclusion and poverty, especially poverty among children. the recovery and resilience plans are essential for supporting smart reforms and investments. and then the review that we are talking about of this semester, it’s a unique opportunity to redesign the architecture of eu economic governance and to create a tool for reinforcing reforms and investment. we look forward to working together to create a stronger and more resilient europe. and we also look forward to working with the young generations that right now are interested in knowing more about europe.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the economic and political choices we make in the coming months will be decisive for future generations. the way forward for the revival of european competitiveness is not through higher interest rates, which have already had a negative impact on consumers, households and businesses, but through a sound industrial and trade policy. the establishment of a european sovereign fund will have to be the pivot on which the new programming will have to be developed. but first of all, it is imperative to review the rules of the budgetary policies of the member states, which are obviously no longer suited to the current socioeconomic context. the commission's communication, although it is a first step in the right direction, is still far from the needs of the states and, above all, presents several knots to be untied. i refer in particular to the scope, the power of the commission and the imposition of a multiannual ceiling on public expenditure. in fact, i agree with prime minister giorgia meloni that the future stability and growth pact should take greater account of the issue of balancing these two values: stability and growth, both necessary. we therefore hope that the commission proposal will not include public investment in innovation, research and infrastructure in the deficit.
madam president, under the guise of economic coordination, the european semester in brussels pursues its ultra-liberal aims and imperial aims. for example, the commission recommends softly euphemistically to france to harmonise another euphemism our pension system. in other words, to abolish our schemes specific to certain occupations which are justified by the burdensome nature of these occupations or by the demographic situation between beneficiaries and contributors, or sometimes even both, and i am thinking in particular of the schemes for our seamen. we definitely don't have the same values. the european union is defending the right of peoples to self-determination on the other side of the world, but it is blatantly trampling on popular sovereignty in brussels. it is true that mrs von der leyen's predecessor said: 'there is no democracy in the face of treaties'. well, in france, there is only one sovereign, and that is the people.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to point out a few issues which, in my view, need to be addressed urgently and which are in line with the dozens of discussions i have had recently with european citizens in romania and other countries. people expect concrete results from the european union to help them live better. but today we have a pandemic that's affected them, we have the russian invasion of ukraine that's affected, we have rising energy prices that's affected, just as unemployment and lack of real opportunity affects us every day. a lot of people don't know how they're going to pay their utilities, they don't know if they're going to have a job, they don't know if they're going to pay their mortgages. that's why we're very interested in having solutions now and not in 2025 or 2050. the small companies that have to lay people off or have to close their doors, what can we say to them at this point? what concrete solutions are we offering them now, beyond good intentions and plans for the next decade? jobs don't just come out of nowhere. they are created by entrepreneurs, by people who need to be supported and in no way burdened by new versions of legislation or by the bureaucracy of the european union. if firms and entrepreneurs disappear or are tempted to go to america or asia, how will we generate quality jobs and from what money will we provide the necessities that european citizens need? that's why it's so important that we invest in people, first of all in programs and entrepreneurs that will create those high-paying jobs for citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that we can say that the political line chosen by the european union in this last mandate has put us in a compromised situation, with foreseeable errors, warned by groups like mine. we see jobs being destroyed, our business fabric losing density and industry not finding the conditions in our environment to develop its activity. environmental demands have led to shortages and rising energy prices, inflation and legal uncertainty. this situation is what is generating poverty and misery, which cannot be solved by social policies alone. because there must be a balance between stability and growth; we must support it while generating prosperity, creating the environment that allows us to be competitive, to encourage entrepreneurship and to revive our economy. it is surprising that, at a time when we must re-examine and re-order our priorities, we should be proposing a leap forward, to the point of calling for the recommendations of the european semester to lose their economic focus and to involve interference in areas where the union has no competence, with an ideological vision which has already had and continues to have devastating effects where it is applied.
madam president, however much they may wish to paint it as social or green, the european semester will remain what it has always been: an instrument of conditionality and interference in the budgetary policy of the states, to the detriment of the peoples, in favour of the great powers and economic groups. it should be recalled that the country-specific recommendations for 2022, in the case of portugal, showed the strengthening of budgetary pressures until 2023 aimed at containing current state expenditure, i.e. pressing towards the containment of real wages and investments in public services. this discussion cannot be separated from the announcement of the end of the escape clause in the stability pact and the re-introduction of the excessive deficit procedures, coupled with the ongoing debate on the revision of the so-called economic governance, aimed at increasing the constraints on public spending and investment by states and their sanctioning framework. the negative developments are anticipated to the detriment of countries such as portugal.
member of the commission. – madam president, members, our growth strategy is based on the four dimensions of competitive sustainability. it remains the compass for coordinating eu economic and social policies both in the short and medium term. and the framework for doing so is the european semester, and i fully agree this should not be a technocratic exercise. this should be an exercise — a political one, a democratic one — based on realities. by integrating next generation eu as well as repowereu in the european semester we have shown that the eu can both be agile and flexible in responding to the important challenges and persistent uncertainty which we all face. the eu has, for the time being, considerable resources which should be used in an efficient and targeted way to precisely respond to these challenges, also those challenges coming from competitors outside the eu. and each new payment reflects steady progress in meeting milestones and targets and implementing key reforms and investments. the next weeks and months will also be crucial to shape the future of our fiscal rules. and, while the commission has proposed a bridging solution for ’24, it is urgent to agree on a revised set of fiscal rules. the commission will present legislative , and we rely on the european parliament to play an active role in reaching a rapid agreement because it is important to guarantee stability, to allow reforms and enhance investments. this is the key for successful and socially fair transitions. effective employment and social policies are key to enable fair transitions and to protect and accompany people. we need to ensure that the eu is at the forefront of the industrial transformation aimed at ending the dependency on fossil fuels, but also improving its competitiveness and creating quality jobs. the effective coordination of economic employment and social policies in the context of a strong european semester remains key to succeed. and this should also be reflected in a reformed economic governance, as asked by many speakers.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, many of you speakers, for example, mr ferber and mr van overtveldt raised the issue of competitiveness and the lack thereof. it was said that we need to mend the roof while the sun is shining. now, when it has begun to rain, this is even more pressing. as was said, the solution is not only more money and more subsidies; the lack of european competitiveness goes deeper. that is why the swedish presidency is prioritising long-term competitiveness. the european semester is an important element of this. to attract investments, stability and predictability is key. the european semester is instrumental to achieve this. allow me also to assure you once more that the council gives great attention to the european semester. you have touched on some important points today, and your ideas will make a valuable contribution to the ministerial debate on this european semester, which continues in the council. as i also said earlier, we must step up our efforts to implement the digital and green transition, and it requires swift, targeted and coordinated policy actions both at the eu and the national levels to carry out structural reforms. i would also like to emphasise the importance of also engaging with our citizens to increase national ownership. i welcome the initiatives taken in this regard, such as dialogues and consultations with stakeholders, civil society and social partners in member states. today’s debate has shown that, despite some differences, there is a lot of common ground between us on which we should build. in a union of highly integrated systems, enhanced economic and social policy coordination can help prevent discrepancies and contribute to ensuring convergence and stability in the eu as a whole and in its member states. i am therefore confident that we will continue to work together to find appropriate solutions to meet the challenges before us.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 15 march 2023. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the oral questions to the council on the adequate minimum income for the active inclusion of dragoş pîslaru, krzysztof hetman, estrella durá ferrandis, lucia ďuriš nicholsonová, sara matthieu, giuseppe milazzo, özlem demirel, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000050/2022 - b9-0008/2023) and to the commission on the adequate minimum income for the active inclusion of dragoş pîslaru, krzysztof hetman, durá ferrandis, lucia ďuriš nicholsonová, matthieu, giuseppe milazzo, özlem demirel, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000050/2022 - b9-0008/2023).
author. – mr president, dear commissioner, dear minister, living in dignity is a human right. in 2021, 95.4 million people in the eu, representing 21.7% of the eu population, were at risk of poverty and social exclusion. just to clarify, that means that one in five people in the eu are in poverty or at risk of social exclusion. the covid-19 pandemic and the rising cost of living further exacerbated the plight of individuals and households in precarious socioeconomic situations. minimum income schemes serve as social safety nets, guaranteeing a minimum standard of living and the right to dignity at all stages of life. for people lacking sufficient resources and decent, stable employment, access to adequate minimum income plays an essential role in reducing poverty, social exclusion and inequalities and such schemes should be combined with incentives and measures enabling labour market activation for people who are able to work. why do we have this debate? we have this debate because the situation in europe is such, that there are many member states that do not have such provisions. i myself, as a minister of labour in 2016 initiated the law on the minimum income for inclusion, it has not been implemented in 2017, and it should, and it has been postponed. it is still not implemented today. that is why we need this debate. representing the committee of employment and social affairs, i would like to ask the council the following questions: how will the council encourage member states to gradually set their minimum income schemes to at least the level of the national at risk of poverty threshold while providing incentives to reintegrate people who can work into the labour market? how will member states ensure that beneficiaries of such schemes are not forced to accept precarious work? how does the council intend to improve the coverage of the existing national scheme? how will member states tackle the non-take-up problem – a very serious problem? what kind of mechanism will they establish to raise the awareness and ensure that those eligible are receiving the support that they can actually benefit from it? how will the member states ensure that that such minimum income schemes do not substitute for social policy measures in other areas such as housing, healthcare, disability support or labour market integration? and how are member states cooperating with social partners, civil society and all the other relevant stakeholders on the design, implementation and monitoring of the minimum income schemes, and where do they see room for improvement? the committee of employment and social affairs would also like to ask the commission a couple of questions. how does the commission intend to ensure that member states gradually increase their minimum income schemes to at least the international arope threshold while providing the incentives that i have referred to before and enabling the measures to reintegrate those who can work in the labour market? then the question is how will the commission monitor the implementation of this recommendation and the contribution to achieving the 2030 targets, in particular, reducing the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion by at least 15 million, including the 5 million children – we are, right now, close to two years after porto. how will it help member states to tackle the non-take-up problem? similar question for the council as well. and what action does it intend to promote non-discrimination in the context of the minimum income schemes? and last but not least, certainly, how will it involve the social partners at european level in implementing and monitoring the council recommendation? these are the questions that stem from the debate that we had in the committee of employment and social affairs. you will hear my colleagues underlining other very important elements in that. but i am really glad that we have this opportunity to discuss about this very, very serious situation. and i will thank you very much for your pertinent answers.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, i think that this debate has demonstrated that we all share the wish to see georgia succeed in its reforms and on its european path. and we all need to help this to be delivered for the people of georgia, because this is the aim of the people of georgia and this is also the key to any eu accession process – to deliver on the 12 priorities because those 12 priorities are setting out the most important tasks in front of the country. and now we need georgia to deliver, to work hard on these reforms, and it is the only way for the country to advance on its chosen european path. to the question of how we support this work and how we help them to deliver, of course, we are standing by financially; we are standing by with experts. but make no mistake: this can only be delivered by the government of georgia and by the parliament of georgia, because again, this is all for the georgian people.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the problems facing the republic of moldova (2023/2595 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, today’s debate is a very timely one as russia and its proxies are actively working to destabilise the pro-reform government of moldova. since the start of russia’s illegal invasion of ukraine, moldova has been facing the consequences of russia’s brutal aggression just tens of kilometres away from its borders. it has been confronted with a growing number of challenges, such as loss of key markets, soaring inflation, violating of its airspace and staged protests. nevertheless, moldova has shown remarkable solidarity with the refugees fleeing ukraine. what is happening now? according to the moldovan authorities, the probability of direct military aggression against moldova is currently low. moreover, the de facto authorities in the transnistria region want to avoid being drawn into russia’s war of aggression. but vigilance is necessary due to the presence of russian troops and ammunition in the transnistria region. over the last months, there have been increasing russian attempts to destabilise moldova with hybrid actions. the president of moldova, maia sandu, has warned about plans to attempt a change of power through violent means. russia’s lies about ukraine massing troops to attack moldova’s pro-russian separatist region of transnistria were swiftly denied by chişinău. at the same time, high energy prices and high inflation have increased the burden on the population, worsening their living conditions. russia has used, again, energy supplies as a political weapon. but the moldovan government, with the eu’s support, has managed to tackle these unprecedented challenges. it is remarkable that despite all the pressures, moldova now is an eu candidate country and it continues working on reforms that aim to bring the country closer to the eu. and in that regard, on 2 february this year, commission services provided further policy guidance on eu acquis-related reforms in our analytical report. this is to complement our opinion of last year on the country’s application for eu membership to be followed by a comprehensive assessment of moldova’s progress in meeting the eu accession criteria later on this year in the autumn. honourable members, let me stress that moldova remains on top of the eu’s political agenda with our unwavering support to the country’s security, territorial integrity and sovereignty. over the last 12 months, the eu has put together a comprehensive support package worth more than eur 1 billion to strengthen moldova’s resilience. moreover, the economic and investment plan for our eastern partners has a significant potential, which needs to be fully tapped to support moldova’s reform agenda. the five flagship initiatives we agreed together aim to unlock eur 1.6 billion of investments for moldova. we are supporting the modernisation of moldova’s defence sector with the support of the european peace facility by providing eur 47 million. we will effectively double moldova’s national defence budget. high representative vice-president borrell has proposed to eu member states to maintain a substantial level of financial assistance to moldova also this year. additionally, eu experts are supporting moldova on cybersecurity, addressing hybrid threats and countering disinformation. the eu also launched a hub to address internal security and border management challenges. and we are looking at further ways to support moldova. high representative vice-president borrell is taking forward the work on preparing a possible eu-civilian csdp mission to further strengthen moldova’s security and resilience. the deployment of such a mission would provide yet another important political signal of eu support in the current difficult circumstances. the commission and the eeas’ services, together with the member states, are also exploring a possible new sanctions regime targeting individuals who seek to destabilise this country. despite all the challenges that moldova is facing, in june, it will host the second summit of the european political community. i want to reassure you that the eu stands in solidarity with the people of moldova, even in these challenging times and the future of moldova and its citizens is within the european union.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, commissioner, colleagues, in order to live in safety and security within the borders of the european union, it is essential that we are surrounded in our immediate neighbourhood by states that are safe and stable. the republic of moldova is a neighbour of the european union and the republic of moldova is a neighbour of ukraine. therefore, a pro-european republic of moldova is good for the citizens of the republic of moldova, but it is also important for the european union, and for ukraine. we know that the citizens of the republic of moldova want european integration, we know that the current authorities in chisinau, the presidency, the government, the parliamentary majority, want european integration, and we know who does not want it: the russian federation and the oligarchs who have been accustomed to controlling the business environment, the political scene and the media in the republic of moldova in recent years. so what do we do? we must continue to help the republic of moldova. first, we need to help the republic of moldova financially so that the authorities can help the citizens of the republic of moldova and the businesses of the republic of moldova to get through this period. we have to tell the republic of moldova, after the implementation of the nine reforms we have requested, what's next? and i say: as soon as these new reforms are implemented, we must start negotiations for accession to the european union this year, we must liberalize trade with the republic of moldova, so that the republic of moldova, like ukraine, can export as much as possible to us, can develop economically and even before accession becomes possible, because accession is a process that will take several years, we must integrate the republic of moldova into the european internal market. this will bring benefits to the people. everything we do for ukraine we must do for the republic of moldova in the next period.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the european parliament will remain a strong supporter of all of the reform processes in moldova. with a change of political context following the russian invasion of ukraine and pro-european orientation of the country, moldovan efforts should be acknowledged in many ways. we should do more. we cannot forget that part of moldovan territory has been under russian occupation for a long time. citizens of moldova have been enduring this kremlin—fuelled separatism which has cost them dearly. it would be irresponsible and naive to think that russia has now focused exclusively on ukraine. on the contrary, we need to be very careful in our immediate neighbourhood. that is why it is highly disturbing to witness these attempts to destabilise political leadership in the country: a well—known scenario set by corrupt pro—kremlin oligarchs and their parties seeks to misuse the dire economic situation to divert the country from its european union path. it’s a hybrid warfare of cynicism developed by the kremlin to destroy our european house, our values and our democracy. the defenders of democracy and our values are nowadays our neighbours, and we should not overlook this, but give them strong support.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, colleagues, president maia sandu and the people of moldova have chosen a path. they chose a model of society built on democratic rules, on individual rights and freedoms, on an open economy. this model is in stark contrast to putin's vision of how a country works. in putin's world, there are the privileged and the subservient, there is brute force as the only source of truth and legitimacy. in putin's world, oligarchs are given access to resources, tolerated stealing and enriching themselves at the expense of the rest of society in exchange for blind loyalty. the success of the model chosen by the republic of moldova and president sandu or the success of the model chosen by ukraine and president zelenskiy only negates the model of putin. that's what the war in ukraine is about and that's what the constant hybrid attack on the republic of moldova and its political leadership is about. putin-affiliated moldovan oligarchs are now leading this attack, paying protest mercenaries, manipulating the opinions of the vulnerable, and all to sabotage democracy and the european path for which moldovans are making so many sacrifices. we, the european parliament, have to make sure that we continue to support moldova and if mr borrell were here, i would ask him to add the moldovan oligarchs, shor, platon, plahotniuc to the eu sanctions list.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, commissioner, despite difficulties, provocations, challenges, the hybrid warfare parts of the toolbox – as mentioned before – are already implemented by the russian federation on the territory of moldova, the country, led by courageous president maia sandu, keeps firm on the european and transatlantic path. we have to stand by moldovan society and also by moldovan authorities, who are our neighbours and who try everything possible to come closer to eu membership. we have to support them and open negotiations as soon as possible, possibly this year. i would like us to implement all financial and technical measures necessary to assist this country, in particular to send a civilian csdp mission there to assist moldova.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, it is clear that the european parliament must give its full support to moldova, which is facing the concrete consequences of the war in ukraine, which are first and foremost humanitarian. the moldovan people have had to take in tens of thousands of refugees. the political consequences too, as has been said, of the unrest, the more or less manipulated demonstrations, the attempts at destabilisation, the events that are multiplying, the threatening words of mr lavrov, who saw in moldova a new ukraine, the declaration of independence of tiraspol. in short, we know these difficulties. and then there is a severe economic crisis, with a very large trade deficit and a purchasing power that is completely overwhelmed by the energy bill. so we must reiterate our support, of course, for the territorial integrity of moldova. we also need to strengthen our macrofinancial assistance. i think that although there are subsidies, i think there are still too many loans. and when we see the situation facing the moldovan people, i think we should not be complacent. we must give full and complete support to a country facing a very serious crisis.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. in recent months, the republic of moldova has increasingly become a target of russian influence. the economic situation is tense, the security environment is fragile. moscow is restricting energy supplies and trying to destabilize the pro-european government through orchestrated protests. the aim is clear and has already been mentioned by many speakers. the reform-oriented anti-corruption and pro-eu course is to be undermined. despite these adverse circumstances, the government of president maia sandu has succeeded in pushing forward an ambitious reform programme. the candidate status granted in june 2022 is our promise to the republic of moldova's long-term european perspective. the european union must and will continue to support the government in chisinau with determination and consistency in this difficult situation. it is a question of stabilizing the structures of the state. it's about improving the economic environment, and it's about building resilience to russian disinformation. in this context, ladies and gentlemen, i expressly support the plans to send a civilian csdp mission to the country as soon as possible to strengthen the moldovan crisis management structures. the next meeting of the european political community will take place in chişinău on 1 june. this will be an important occasion to show the republic of moldova the support of all european partners.
mr. president, the situation in the republic of moldova is worrying. i saw the imprint of evil recently when i was in chisinau, and i see it more and more often on the news. our partner urgently needs substantial support from brussels. the seeds of conflict are being sown in moldova in the well-known pattern: destabilization is intensifying, pro-russian groups are reactivating, the staging in transnistria is becoming more and more subtle. the kremlin is in a hurry. we have to be faster than him. but moldova also needs help to find its internal political balance. respect for european values does not and cannot have a political colour. in crucial moments, when you need all the allies, dividing, unmeritedly blaming and ostracizing a portion of the genuinely pro-european electorate just because it comes from the opposition, from the left of the political spectrum, is counterproductive and can become destructive. only by keeping your friends close can you make your enemies irrelevant. for moldova, the solidarity of the european union, energy, money, reforms and tolerance are vital now. together they will ensure the survival of democracy and the european integration it seeks.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you are politicians, some of you have held government posts in your own state, and you know the challenges that exist even in peacetime and in prosperous countries. now imagine that you're running a small country politically, that has been under russian influence for decades, that has a border with war-torn ukraine and russian soldiers illegally on its territory. that's why i would like to hear vice president borrell today, congratulating with us both president maia sandu and the government of the republic of moldova, for facing this pressure with immense challenges from putin's russia, but also to understand that moldova now needs the support of the european union in deeds, not just in statements. economic support, financial support, to be able to demonstrate to the citizens of the republic of moldova that a democratic government, a government supported by the european union can also cope with the economic situation and crises. for putin's challenges to fail, the european union must help moldova cope with the crises it faces, both in terms of security and in terms of the economy and the livelihoods of moldovan citizens.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the republic of moldova is still a victim of the arbitrary ribbentrop-molotov pact, which led to the division of europe in 1939 between hitler and stalin. following this pact, stalin occupied bessarabia from romania, which he incorporated into the soviet union under the name of the moldavian soviet republic. russia, whether it was tsarist, soviet or post-soviet, did everything possible to keep the territory of the republic of moldova under its own malign sphere of influence. in addition to maintaining the frozen conflict in transnistria, russia is today undermining moldova economically, politically and culturally. the republic of moldova must be helped by all means to get out of the clutches of imperialist russia, which for hundreds of years has been seeking to achieve slavery and poverty. moldova has recently been granted eu candidate status, but this needs to be complemented by effective security support to moldova so that the front in ukraine does not extend to chisinau. it is also imperative that the european union sign a roaming agreement with moldova as a matter of urgency. such a roaming agreement is not a big effort for the eu, but it will mean everything for the citizens of the republic of moldova, who will be able to communicate much easier with their brothers and families in the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a tense situation in the republic of moldova, right on the borders of the european union, commissioner, where attempts are being made to destabilise the country shortly after the moldovans chose a european democratic path and the european union offered moldova the status of a candidate country. modern means, such as the internet and freedom of speech, are being abused by pro-russian forces, who want to bring this state back under the influence of russia and putin, re-establish an authoritarian regime. the republic of moldova needs our support, both declaratively but especially practically, given its limited defense capabilities, limited experience on the democratic path and an already badly tried economy, the pandemic, the war in ukraine, energy dependence, the separatist zone of transnistria. we cannot stand by and watch russia and putin try to destabilize european democracies one by one, spreading disinformation and manipulation. we cannot allow uncertainty to spread across our continent.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, recently at the munich security conference, president maia sandu said that the greatest challenge for the republic of moldova is the propaganda of the russian federation, which it is applying against the republic of moldova. i ask you, commissioner, what is the commission's strategy to support the republic of moldova in the face of these extremely aggressive instruments that the kremlin is using today on the ground, when we see that, with great aggressiveness, through propaganda, manipulation, disinformation, the republic of moldova is trying to be destabilised by those who have joined hands, and here i am referring to corrupt politicians, to pro-russian political forces, to fugitives who are no longer in the republic of moldova, but who are financing entire campaigns to denigrate and destabilise the pro-european government in chisinau. we are waiting for action because solidarity is needed now more than ever.
madam president, of course improving the energy performance of buildings is something we all want to achieve, especially in the face of today's environmental challenges. of course we all want lower bills and more efficient spending, but first of all let's ask ourselves if the targets we are setting are realistic, if they meet the expectations of european citizens, if the transition to zero-emission buildings from 2030 is smooth enough that it does not affect some countries and many end-users. i certainly support the green transition, that it is a necessity, but not before we make sure that it is viable and will not affect vulnerable citizens, who are already heavily affected by all the measures of the last months and years.
madam president, i voted against the energy performance of buildings report because it will lead to a severe increase in home rental prices, which will make the very few rich people richer and the rest of the people poorer. every time a european bureaucrat proposes something and labels it as ‘ambitious’, that means it is actually bad for the people, and this report just proves that. it is absurd to have the so-called ambitions that are converting into more obligations for the people which are costing them even more money. for example, the member states will have to ensure that the use of fossil fuel heating systems will not be authorised in existing buildings undergoing major renovations, deep renovation or renovation of heating systems, as well as in new buildings, starting from 24 months after the adoption of this directive. the solution left for the people is to heat their homes using electricity, which is more and more expensive, mainly due to european green deal utopian objectives. europe needs a pragmatic leadership, clearly different than the current one, a leadership that can provide practical solutions to increase economic growth or people’s health while reducing costs and making the continent a better, safer and cleaner place to live.
madam president, technological progress has brought us face to face with new challenges and that is why i think it is essential to have clear rules governing this area. we need fairness in the digital environment, and that's why i think it's necessary that users, as well as manufacturers, can leverage the data from the devices they're connected to. these new rules that we are preparing are essential precisely because this issue is important to be able to use and access data generated in the european union in all economic sectors. this law mandates and obviously provides equity in the digital environment to stimulate a competitive data market, to open up new opportunities for data-driven innovation and will make data more accessible to all.
madam president, i voted in favour of the european ombudsman's 2021 activity report because, under the leadership of emily o'reilly, it was one of the few european institutions that really protects citizens' rights and has the courage to call out and hold the european commission and ursula von der leyen accountable for the abuses that have been committed. in 2021, emily oreilly opened numerous investigations into the lack of transparency of the european commission and other european institutions: one such investigation into how ursula von der leyen negotiated and purchased, in a totally non-transparent and illegal way, billions of doses of vaccines with public money, through text messages exchanged personally with the ceo of pfizer, albert bourla, and another investigation into the refusal of the european medicines agency to grant public access to documents related to the manufacture of mrna vaccines against covid-19. it's unfair to deny the public the right to know how the injections they were forced to take during the pandemic were tested. i commend the european ombudsman for not giving in to pressure and exercising his mandate of democratic scrutiny over european public institutions. following this report, ursula von der leyen should, if not out of honour, at least out of shame, resign.
madam president, the european union, as the world's largest donor of development assistance, stands out clearly from its other international partners. european action on the international stage is guided by key principles such as democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, the principle of equality and solidarity, and respect for the principles of the united nations charter and international law, which leads to the implementation of key humanitarian objectives such as leaving no one behind and addressing first the needs of the most deprived, with the ambition to reduce and eradicate poverty in the long term. the fact that the european parliament voted by a very large majority on this report reaffirms the european union's foreign policy mandate to contribute to a fairer world and to well-being for all. we have a strong signal for the footprint the european union wants to leave on the world.
madam president, your excellences, do not turn the drama of the romanian farmers into a second schengen unfairly denied to romania! the 23-24 march council is obliged to decide on the payment of compensation to farmers who have lost enormously after the launch of the russian invasion of ukraine. romanian producers have calculated a loss of over eur 200 million, but there are also poland, slovakia, hungary, the czech republic and bulgaria. the union's assistance to ukraine since the beginning of the war must continue. we must continue to support even more the ukrainians' struggle to take their country out from under the threat of a tyrant. they die to protect us, and if ukraine falls, we're not safe. but the union cannot leave any of its citizens in the lurch, including romanian farmers! you have to find a solution! romanian farmers expect it and have a right to it. and, after all, does not competitiveness mean quality cereals in europe? it's the same romanians who were so offended when they were denied full access to schengen. i pointed out that if the european institutions feed the discontent of the population with wrong decisions, the wave of euroscepticism will increase and the extremists will exult. eight years ago, romanians were the most euro-optimistic, 68 percent, when the european average was 54. now, after the completely unfair decision to expand schengen in december, they have become the most euro-pessimistic, 46%, compared to the european average, which is 62%. it's a trend that started during the pandemic, when romania was the playground of russian disinformation and exploded post the schengen decision in december. your excellences, do not abandon romania! it is not possible! we are a key state for the defense of the nato and eu border!
i have to say, madam president, the competition for green jobs is heightened. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the union's energy market is not affected by the price pressure of the us dollar. the eu's green jersey has been challenged from both the east and the west. both because more countries have become aware of the climate challenges we face. this is good, but also because it has actually become a good business case, and therefore the eu is naturally forced to react when the united states pulls out the checkbook and encourages european companies to move their production to the united states. anything else would be far from reality. but we must do so in a way that does not close in on ourselves and in which the investments we make are both temporary and targeted. no one benefits from a state aid axis, not even the eu. and the world has changed. we have to face that before it's too late. so dear germany and dear epp: this also applies to the phase-out of combustion engines in cars. the future is green, even when it comes to our cars.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, last july matteo salvini, the current italian government minister, said that the left would be pushed by putin. today, however, it is precisely the right-wing government ministers who point to wagner, putin's mercenary militias, who have been responsible for horrific crimes in ukraine, as responsible for the recent arrivals. we are at the comic theatre, salvini said. maybe he saw the future. human beings are dying on our shores, blamed for the indecent words of minister piantedosi, who calls irresponsible parents those who flee from despair. what can i say? i'm ashamed of him. but now we need policy, the good policy, the policy that changes things. the european council must act by changing the pact on migration through legal and safe channels, with a new european system for rescue and search at sea. let's just be human.
madam president, i am grateful that we are talking about the economy after some time because it is a very important topic, so let me make two takes. the first, i don’t believe that the economy should be run by subsidies or by state aid. this should be used very carefully and we are in stage that we are considering we should not forget that the driving force should be competition and competitiveness, together with transparent and simple rules. the second, we should not forget when comparing with the us that we pay a high cost for our policy being fragmented. where the us is taking one policy that is valid across the eu, we have very often 20 different fragmented policies. the second points i want to remind us that we are struggling with very high inflation, and high inflation is boosted by expansionary fiscal policy. we should more discuss about correction of the fiscal policy and about introduction of much more better fiscal rules across the eu.
madam president, dear vice-president, mr president of the european council, mrs monserrat, i know that the opposition is very cold, but i do not think that lies will contribute much to today's debate. that said, ladies and gentlemen, although we are coming to the end of winter, many families and businesses, and especially smes, are still suffering the consequences of the crisis caused by putin's war. although we have been able to avoid energy shortages this winter, poverty and energy insecurity are still a reality that we have to overcome. we need a european energy policy now, in the medium and long term, which promotes the geopolitical diversification of the supply of clean and affordable energy. one of the keys to this lies in the reform of the european electricity market. i therefore hope that the proposals of the spanish vice-president, teresa ribera, will be put to good use under the spanish presidency, and i have the support of the european people's party. on the other hand, we need to deploy renewable energy and green hydrogen, key elements to achieve a just ecological transition that both humanity and the planet need. ladies and gentlemen, good times are coming. let us take the opportunity to consolidate a genuine common energy policy.
madam president, this mandate thus far has been marked by our commitment to climate change, which is good. so we have net zero emissions, we have fit for 55 with the green deal, etc. but that also has led to headlines across europe saying the eu is forcing us to do this and forcing us to do that. now, i would like to see the rest of this mandate being dedicated to highlighting the supports we can give to member states and businesses in dealing with this challenge so that the headlines would be the eu is helping us to reach our climate goals and at the same time maintaining or improving our competitiveness. that is absolutely vital from now on to change the narrative. and also, of course, i am wondering what has happened to investeu. in the last mandate known as the juncker fund, it was hugely successful in generating finance and jobs, etc. we hear nothing about it now. we need to hear more about these instruments so people can see that the eu is supporting them in reaching the climate change goals.
madam president, it’s been very interesting. i’ve been listening to the discussion and i have several questions. i would have wanted to ask the epp about the new trade agreement with the us. i would have wanted to ask the council about the potential ice ban. i want to talk about the greens with their naive view on mining activities and to the left on the electricity market reform. but we had no blue card, so there is no possibility to have a debate. and the result is we have more visitors here than meps and we have become completely irrelevant. we’re going and moving towards elections. we need to have more lively debate and discussions. come on, we can do better in this house. so, in the future, i hope we can have more lively debates and make us more relevant because we earn that, the citizens earn that and we can do better than this, colleagues.
ms wiesner, this is precisely why you had the one minute: to use the catch-the-eye in order to ask a question to the commission or the council presidents.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the former yugoslavia. i am naturally pleased that the inflation reduction act now includes european-produced raw materials. but i'm really worried that we're losing our partnerships in the global south like this. we are faced with the huge challenge of diversifying supply chains. that means that we must first of all make ourselves independent of china. the partner countries in east africa - whether it is the congo, uganda or tanzania - want manufacturing industries themselves. let's invest in it. let us give these countries the chance to grow, the chance to really contribute to the prosperity of their own people. that's my big request to you. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in sheepmeat and goatmeat, which is the subject of a proposal by the committee on budgets, is a very good one. the objectives you set and the promises you make cannot be achieved with a budget of 1% of european gdp. and, mr michel, we also need a council which does not constantly paralyse itself in search of unanimity when the european parliament calls for an increase in the number of matters decided by an increased majority. we need more money both for technology and for a stronger industry in the european union, but also for reducing the common social inequalities, which have risen dangerously, and for implementing the green deal, which must be implemented and not undermined. and because the european union is a project of democracy and peace, we need more initiatives to respect the rule of law and to finally end the war in ukraine.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, president of the european council, honourable members, i think that this debate has very clearly proven that the race for global leadership in net—zero clean tech industry is very much on. i agree with mr lamberts that the european economy is, and will always be, based on ‘high value added’. therefore, we have developed the concept of competitive sustainability, and i really would like to thank this house for the support for the battery regulation, where we place this concept for the first time into full practice. each battery placed on the eu market will have a qr code telling us exactly what is the carbon footprint, where the critical raw materials came from, whether they have been ethically sourced and, of course, what the warranty is for their recycling. i think that thanks to this approach we have over the last five years got more than eur 180 billion of investment into this sector with 160 industrial projects and more than 30 gigafactories, which are being built in europe despite all global competition. of course, i totally agree with all of you that these investments must continue. so i would like to also reassure ms charanzová that we are in close contact with the industry, and the proposals you heard this morning from the president of the european commission on fast permitting, on granting better access to public and private finance, and to have a forward—looking, critical raw materials act, as mr gallée was suggesting, to make sure that we will use the new approach to state aid and work with green procurement, as ms cavazzini was referring to, and to develop the concept of how to use tax breaks and simplify our procedures, are exactly the responses the industry was expecting from us. so what i want to say is that this is what was proposed by our industrial leaders and this is what we are going to deliver. i believe that this is a powerful signal that we want european industry not only to stay in europe, but to expand and prosper here as well. ms garcía pérez, mr moreno sánchez and mr schirdewan have been making very important remarks, together with several honourable members, on how the high energy prices are affecting our households and our industry. yesterday’s reform, presented by my colleague kadri simson on the eu electricity market, should not only accelerate the deployment of renewables, but also protect our households and our industry from unreliable suppliers, from hikes in electricity pricing, and help us to overcome the dependencies which have been proven to be so dangerous for our security of supply. as you know, our leaders in the european council have decided that we should, for the first time in the history of the european union, do our utmost and to purchase gas in a common way. because we know that gas will play the role of a necessary transitional fuel for some time. we have talked to major gas consumers, to steelers, to fertiliser producers, to aluminium smelters and operators, to smes in the textile, glass and ceramic industry, and they’ve been very obliged to us that we are actually aggregating their demands and that we will enter into the negotiations with the global suppliers, because otherwise they will simply not be able to reach that level of the negotiation. so what we are looking for here is to get the best prices and the best conditions from global markets for economy in the european union. yesterday, we opened the process of registration for all those who want to purchase gas together, and in may, as i said, for the first time in history, we will start joint procurement of gas for eu consumers. we believe that the common political and economic weight of the european economy will bring us not only better security of supply, but also lower energy prices, which are so crucial for addressing the cost of living of our families, but also the competitiveness of our industry. to conclude, i really would like to thank this house for the strong and continued support for ukraine, which is as needed now as it was a year ago.
the european council madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your messages. i would like to comment on some of the points that have been raised. first, as many have said, we are facing a major challenge. after the brexit upheaval, after the covid, after the awareness of the need to be engaged in the climate field, in the digital field, we are facing a war on the european continent. for the past year, the unity of the member states in decision-making has been unfailing in supporting ukraine, which is fighting for its future, which is also fighting for our values, which is fighting for our democratic principles. we had the opportunity to take additional, operational steps, because that meeting a few weeks ago with president zelensky, in a small format, was the opportunity, in an operational way, to consider additional supports in military capacity to really help and support ukraine. and this war against ukraine is also an opportunity to open our eyes to the need to take steps forward for a europe of defence. secondly, we are also united in sanctioning russia, in trying to isolate it internationally. it is the diplomatic battle that is being fought and we realise that it is not simple. it is necessary to engage in a body of diplomatic work, to speak to the entire international community, to argue and defend these principles which directly affect a rules-based international order. and then many, each in his own way, each with his own political sensibilities, have made it clear that our generation, whatever the bench on which we stand, is facing a major challenge. after this political project was set up on the ashes of two tragic wars, our generation must now make decisions that will have an impact on how the european union will be shaped in the coming decades for our children and for our grandchildren. it is about strengthening the resilience, the resilience, the solidity, the robustness of this european project. i see four key elements, and several have mentioned them directly or indirectly. the first is to work again and again to support a strong and robust economic base which is the condition for leaving no one behind, to ensure that there are transitions that are fair, just. but the basic condition is the ability to turn, as has been said, to innovation, to investment, to fight against bureaucracy, against red tape, to ensure that there is a capacity to free up the minds, to free up the entrepreneurial energies to build and shape a europe that looks to the future with more confidence and more solidity. the second point, and we have been at the heart of this political and economic battle for the last few months, is energy. and we don't find out with the war in ukraine, we knew that long before. and long before that, we were very divided among europeans on how to approach this question of our energy future. there were sometimes heated political debates between us on the subject. it is striking to me to see in a few months the leap forward in political convergence towards greater europeanisation of the energy question. this is exactly the work that is being done with the european council and the commission. the european parliament has its say on the subject. who would have imagined two or three years ago that today we would be talking about a common purchasing platform for energy? who would have thought that we would be in a moment when we would accelerate this ambition to develop renewable energy for more independence, for more sovereignty, and that we would have these debates on the different technologies that are needed in order to have, tomorrow, the capacities that are useful to protect competitiveness, to protect prosperity and our ability to support families all over europe? firstly, the economic basis. secondly, the energy question. and third, safety. security and defense. and here again, i say it again, but this project which is now becoming operational and real - mobilizing the european industry to set up joint purchases of ammunition - is an extremely important step. we will be working a lot on this with the high representative josep borrell, with the member states. the matter will be on the table again at the european council next week. we really need to take more responsibility for our security and stability. the fourth point, last but not least, is at the heart of our dna. it is at the heart of who we are as europeans, because our reality has been forged in the course of a history that has been tragic, that has been brutal in the last century. it is the dignity of every human being, it is the fundamental freedoms. it is the idea that we have a special responsibility to take this conviction of genuine dignity around the world. i am very proud, as a european representative, with all the member states, that the european union is by far the first sponsor of multilateralism, the first sponsor of efforts within the framework of the united nations, for example, to reduce discrimination, injustice and impoverishment. and i am very proud that this issue of equality between women and men is at the heart of our project. there's a very important ceremony coming up in a few moments. the council stands firmly with the women in iran and afghanistan who are courageously standing up for their dignity. finally, there is a crucial point, namely the question of europe's place in the world. that's what some of you have said. the question for the next few decades is: do we want to be content with a european union where decisions are made by others, or do we want to build a powerful europe in which we are masters of our own destiny and our own future? this is the question that is being asked in the geopolitical debate that we are facing today. you understand the choice i'm making. i think our responsibility, through strengthening the economic and labour base for our security, is to ensure that we do not delegate to others the conditions of our future, but rather that we decide as europeans, in the democratic debate among ourselves, how we create the legitimacy to take today the decisions that will shape the project in which our children and grandchildren will live tomorrow. a project of peace, prosperity, stability based on those fundamental values to which we are so attached.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. while states and peoples are faced with economic and social difficulties which are far from inevitable, the commission and the council are working together to deepen a framework of constraints which are almost absolute in relation to the action of states and which limits the necessary measures of public investment and social progress which counteract the consequences of the policies which you are putting in place. i am referring in particular to the full reintroduction of the rules of the stability pact and the so-called reform of macroeconomic governance. without changing the absurd rules of deficit and debt in the main, they are moving forward with the creation of new and faster mechanisms for blackmailing, monitoring, controlling and sanctioning states, trying to ensure that, as merkel said, governments change but not policies. we know the objectives and consequences, which affect mainly countries like portugal: wage and pension restraint, divestment in public services, labour deregulation, liberalisation of strategic sectors... the way forward is to abolish the macroeconomic governance framework and the constraints associated with it.
in writing. the russian terrorist regime has been committing war crimes for over a year, and the european union must not relent in its aid to the ukrainian people, whether humanitarian, economic or military. on the contrary, we must increase aid. i stress that the ukrainians are not only fighting for their freedom, but for the freedom of all democratic europe, and we must provide them with everything they need for this defence. i therefore call for a common european procedure for the procurement of ammunition and for the joint purchase and supply of artillery ammunition to ukraine. if approved and implemented, this will be another positive step in helping ukraine and building a common and more effective european defence.
the extraordinary european council of 9 february, which included an exchange of views with president zelensky, reaffirmed the union's commitment to systemic support for ukraine, recognising its right to independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity. it was also decided to move forward with the structural measures of the zero impact industrial plan, in particular with regard to the flexibility of state aid, financing, the regulatory framework, capacity building, capital markets and multilateral trade and cooperation agreements. the council adopted a set of guidelines to regulate migration flows in a transparent, inclusive and humanistic manner. the conclusions listed are promising but require rapid and effective implementation. the european council of 23 and 24 march will follow up this and adopt the principles of energy market reform. at a critical moment in responding to the disruption of value chains and rising prices, with the purchasing power of large sections of the european population being undermined, the european union cannot fall back into the trap of austerity policies whose economic and financial ineffectiveness and social cost were demonstrated in the subprime crisis.
in relation to the decision by several committees to enter into interinstitutional negotiations, pursuant to rule 71(1), announced at the opening of the sitting on monday 13 march, i have received requests for a vote in parliament pursuant to rule 71(2) from members reaching at least the medium threshold on the decision to enter into negotiations on the european digital identity framework. the vote will be held tomorrow, 16 march 2023. regarding the other decisions, i have received no request for a vote and, therefore, the committees may start the negotiations. (the sitting was suspended to celebrate international women's day.)
we move to the next item of this morning, an important one. i am very pleased, dear members and dear colleagues, to welcome you at this year’s celebration of international women’s day. we have a packed and very well prepared programme and i would like to ask you dear colleagues to welcome a number of special guests that we have brought together. before that we will start with a round of political group speakers.
president of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats. madam president, the truth is that it is an honour for all of us to have two women here today who are leaders in their respective fields. we need women who inspire a new generation of girls and teenagers who see their potential reflected in the achievements of women like shirin ebadi, the first muslim woman to win the nobel peace prize. mrs ebadi was the first iranian woman to become president of a court in 1975 and, despite the many problems and obstacles that were put in her way, she has never given up and has continued to fight. she was able to practice as a lawyer and focused on defending the weakest, political prisoners and, especially, women and children. women like samantha cristoforetti, the third european woman astronaut to reach space and the second woman in the world with the most days in space. there have been very few female astronauts, but thanks to the example of mrs. cristoforetti, many girls will realize that it is possible to break through into a man's world and break through the glass ceiling. but today, you'll allow me to end with a tribute to the millions of anonymous women who have made history. mothers who return home after long days of work and get down to doing homework with their children and housework. the rural women who get up every morning to tend the livestock, work hours and hours and never get recognized. to the women who have been victims of gender-based violence, many of whom lose their lives while others have to make a new one. and to the women who are fleeing from war, hunger and injustice. the women refugees. i had the opportunity last week to be in greece, in a refugee women's center: brave, with a lot of suffering, but also brave and determined to keep working for a better future. we are fortunate european women to live in a space where our rights are recognized, even though we have to continue to work and fight to not back down. but let us not forget all those outside europe who still need our solidarity and support. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, simone de beauvoir said that a political, economic or religious crisis was enough to call women's rights into question again and that these rights could never be taken for granted. unfortunately, he was right. today we are aware of it: in so many places, in iran, afghanistan, the united states, and here, within our borders, in poland, where yesterday a woman activist was convicted precisely for helping others exercise their right to abortion. it is an honour to have people like shirin ebadi, who today reminds us again in this house of the cry of women, life and freedom. the cry of millions of women against a regime that has murdered thousands of women and poisoned 7,000 students and is the first country in the world to execute women. we must remind afghan women that they live in a true gender apartheid and we have to do a lot for them. above all, not to recognize the criminal regimes that oppress them. it's also an honor to be able to be with women like samantha, because education is the most powerful engine for equality. in an industry where 90 percent of astronauts are men, she's changing the narrative of stereotypes, of gender bias, and she's sending a message to girls: you can be anything you want, you can fulfill all your dreams. but it's also a reminder to us, to know that we have to keep working every day so that all women have access to all rights. you can't ask less of a democracy because women can't expect less. that is why we must continue to work on the directive on combating gender-based violence, which comes late, when 50 women are killed, victims of violence in the european union, and on equal pay, equal representation. today is a day to remember that no right to equality can be taken for granted.
co-president of the group of the greens/european free alliance. – madam president, dear colleagues, today we are celebrating women. we are celebrating women in the fight for their rights. we are celebrating women in their fight against patriarchy. but let me say this: women are for long already not only carrying the fight for women’s rights. they are carrying across the globe the fight for democracy and freedom – values that the european union is founded on. if we look at iran, if we look at afghanistan, if we look at argentina, there are brave women who are fighting for what we hold dear and they are a source of inspiration to all of us. one of the women that we should be celebrating today, and for international women’s day, is justyna wydrzyńska, not only because she has shown bravery and commitment, but because she has helped others. she has helped people in need. she supported women who needed access to abortion in a country like poland, where the right and the access to abortion has been heavily restricted over the past years. this form of compassion and solidarity is what makes our society strong. she has stood up for our values and very concretely provided support. but instead of celebrating her, she is being criminalised. she was convicted to eight months of community service yesterday for caring for others, for defending our rights. colleagues, we cannot stay silent on this – full solidarity to justyna and all the women in poland and elsewhere in the world who are standing up for their rights, who are standing up for care and solidarity. i do not want to live in a europe where women who are helping other women are being criminalised. so let us take this day and let us take action together. let us put the right to abortion into the eu charter on fundamental rights. women in europe deserve it. let us be a beacon of hope and inspiration for all women across the globe.
i will now welcome our guests. (applause)dr shirin ebadi, commander samantha cristoforetti, president michel, president von der leyen, commissioners, madam ombudswoman, dear members, thank you for being with us here in the house of european democracy. before we hear the speeches of today, i would like to invite all of you to turn your attention to the screens to watch a short video in celebration of international women’s day. (a video was shown in the chamber) dear colleagues, international women’s day is marked in our annual calendar not only to recognise the achievements of women and girls across the world but also as a call to action, a rallying point to strengthen gender equality across all spheres of our society. i am so proud to be here as the third woman president of this institution, and i am so grateful for those who came before me, who made the path easier for my generation, for all of us. i am here – we are here – because of the battles that they fought for us. we stand on their shoulders and we reiterate our promise to make it easier for those who come after us. women have changed the world. and we don’t say this enough. we have with us today commander samantha cristoforetti, the first european woman ... (applause)samantha is the first european woman to command the international space station. thank you, samantha, for showing every young girl in europe that they can reach for the stars. you beat the odds and your thrived; your hard work and determination are an example to us all. on international women’s day, it is important to recognise the achievements of women and girls around the world and beyond as a source of empowerment and inspiration for every young girl. and yet, even as we heard in the speeches we’ve just seen, the reality is that progress towards true equality remains painfully slow, and that can no longer be an acceptable benchmark. so today i want to honour all those women who are fighting for their freedom and inclusion: women who are killed, beaten, and abused all over the world just for being women. all those women still fighting for their rights. all those women who have to face higher standards and have to prove every day that they are capable of doing the job. all the women facing new digital hurdles online. all those mothers, daughters, sisters who face obstacles every day that we do not talk about. all those women who face all this and yet remain unbowed and unbroken. ukrainian women fighting against an illegal russian invasion – who, to quote the first woman president of the european commission: ‘smashed a glass ceiling over the head of the russian invaders.’ the chibok girls kidnapped nine years ago by boko haram in nigeria, many of whom remain in captivity. they have not been forgotten and our commitment to bring back our girls remains as strong today. afghan women who are silenced, repressed, mistreated, robbed of their education and who continue to suffer at the hands of the taliban. iranian women who are standing up for life and liberty and paying the ultimate price. (applause) dr shirin ebadi is with us today – a nobel prize laureate and one of iran’s first female judges. dr ebadi, we appreciate the immense effort you have made to be with us today. you embody the fight of iranian women, the fight for what is fair, and for what is right. your presence is a reminder that the fight will not cease and that freedom requires courage and sacrifice. it is also a warning to those who hope it might. women will not go silently into the night, they will not give up. and the european parliament will continue to stand with the women of iran. (applause) dear colleagues, my hope is for international women’s day to be seen as an invitation for societies to do better. even within our union, gender equality will remain unfinished business for as long as we have not achieved equal pay for equal work. today still, every second woman around us has experienced sexual harassment. the time is now for the european union to lead by example – to set standards in criminalising violence against women, to improve access to justice, and to ratify the istanbul convention before the end of this term. when women are free, when rights are respected, when education is recognised, when pay is equal, when women are protected, when opportunities are fair and where playing fields are level, when we realise that when we are all equal then we all benefit – that is when we can say we have achieved the milestones our generation has inherited. that is when we can say we have left this place, this union better than we found it, and we will keep working every day to see that happen.
president of the commission. – madam president, dear roberta, dr ebadi, captain cristoforetti, honourable members, what an honour to be here with you today among women who have blazed the trail for so many other women. dr ebadi, for decades, you have fought for women’s rights in iran. they tried to silence you. they put you in jail. they forced you into exile. but you kept fighting with bravery, day in, day out. you are amazing and we thank you for your leadership. it is outstanding what you have done. today, countless women have joined in your fight, and the whole world stands in awe of the women of iran. more and more women are choosing to defy the prohibitions of a regime that does not see them as equal. they take off their headscarves, and for this they get beaten up, put in jail, even killed. they too are blazing a trail for their sisters, their mothers, their daughters. for all the people of iran. they are claiming not only the freedom to show their hair or to cover it, but also the freedom from fear, from violence. freedom to study, to work, to love without asking anybody’s permission. as it should be. it’s women, life, liberty. that’s what you stand for. the fight and the courage of iranian women move and inspire women all across the world. because the challenges we face may be different, but the rights we strive for are the same. first and foremost, the most basic of all rights: the right to be free from violence. this is still a global curse, including here in europe. and how can you be equal if you’re constantly under threat? there’s massive work to do to change everyone’s mindset to ensure that it’s never justified to beat a woman, that it’s never justified to mutilate a girl’s body, that no always means no. and this is why we’re pushing hard to ensure equal protection to all women in all european countries. and i know, honourable members, you share my aspiration. so let us join forces. let us bring to life the first-ever eu law on combating violence against women and domestic violence. it’s time to deliver. honourable members and distinguished guests, gender equality does not just happen, even in countries where there is no morality police. progress is hard won, easily lost. it requires day-to-day attention and commitment to ensure that women and girls are free from violence; that women as well as men can have both a family and a career; that women earn the same as their male colleagues because they deserve it; that women do reach the very top levels because they are qualified. we have a duty to set an example to society and the economy of what a world of fair chances looks like. and this duty counts every day, not just on international women’s day. beyond laws, women and girls also need role models. women who blaze a trail for everyone else. and that’s why i’m so glad to meet you, captain cristoforetti. you once said, ‘as a child, i didn’t dream to be the first italian woman astronaut. i just dreamt to be an astronaut.’ you just wanted to follow your dreams. and, with passion and hard work, you made it. and now girls look up to you as a role model. thanks to you, they know that they too can aim high. and, just like you, they can reach for the stars. captain cristoforetti, dr ebadi, your examples inspire us. you strive for a world where young girls and boys can be whatever they want to be in life, where there are no jobs that are simply for men or simply for women, where not even the sky is the limit. this is our goal, and again, not because women are better, but because we are different. and also very simply because it is right. this is time for a world of equal rights and fair chances not just for women, but for all of us. long live europe.
european space agency astronaut and commander of the international space station. – madam president, dear president michel, president von der leyen, dear dr ebadi, dear members of the european parliament, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, it is an immense honour for me to be here today. i’m very grateful for the invitation to participate in the parliament celebration of international women’s day, and i am truly humbled by the opportunity of speaking here today at the centre of our european democracy and decision—making. i am humbled by the opportunity of taking the floor just before dr ebadi, a woman who has been a true champion of women’s rights in the face of brutal discrimination and who has suffered terrible personal consequences for her willingness to fight. for that, i thank you, dr ebadi. as an astronaut of esa, the european space agency, i would like to take this opportunity to talk to you about what i know best, which is the european space activities, the role of esa and the synergies with the european union. space is… out there, but it is also here among us every day. it is an essential element of everyday life. we take it for granted. sometimes we even don’t notice it. and yet, space is woven into the fabric of every modern society. it is well known that we rely on space assets to provide important services like earth observation, communication, navigation, services that we need, for example, for environmental monitoring to mitigate the consequences of climate change, for weather forecast, disaster response, internet access, tv broadcasting, even smart traffic. space assets are even crucial for energy provision or financial transactions and many other vital economic functions. esa works constantly to ensure that these essential services are secured and that all relevant assets are managed efficiently and remain available to support the policies that you, the political decision—makers, set for us for the benefit of european citizens, be it about climate change, the green transition, the digital transformation, sustainable development or inclusiveness. let us not forget security. i think that the green political context that we are facing these days has highlighted the importance of security—related space activities. as you know, last friday, the commission and the high representative presented for the first time a joint communication on a european strategy for security and defence, a european space strategy for security and defence. the european parliament will play a crucial role and esa will provide its contribution. but space is also a powerful engine of prosperity and economic growth. today, the global space market is already worth about usd 340 billion, and by the late 2030s, by some estimates, space could generate a revenue of usd 1 trillion. such tremendous growth potential can be in part ascribed to a profound transformation of our industry, often referred to as the new space revolution. new players are getting involved, often from outside of the traditional space sector. old and new companies pursue profit and growth through novel business models, risk sharing with public institutions through public—private partnerships and early financing through venture capital. the reduction in the cost of access to space brought about, for example, by the reusability of launchers has made mega constellations a reality. the miniaturisation of electronics has made satellite platforms smaller and cheaper, and yet more capable and versatile. let me add, however, in all honesty, that many of these ‘new space’ developments are far more advanced in north america than they are here in europe. still, the opportunities are there for europe to take, if we choose to be ambitious in our goals and pursuits. esa’s member states have already raised the level of ambition. our ministerial meeting last november in paris secured a record budget of eur 16.9 billion for the coming three years. that is a 17% increase with respect to the preceding ministerial meeting back in 2019, a clear sign that our member states understand space as a strategic component of our industrial and technological sovereignty. esa brings world—class expertise, unique knowhow in the area of space science, technology and applications, along with its rich experience in space project management. but an ambitious european approach needs partnerships with national institutions, academia, industry and with the european union. esa and the european union each bring their specific mandates, competencies and strengths to the table. esa’s agenda 2025, which was published on the very first day in office of esa’s director general josef aschbacher, lists a renewed and enforced partnership between esa and the eu as a top priority. esa and the eu have embarked on major common success stories: copernicus – the world’s largest and most successful earth observation program, providing decision—makers, researchers, entrepreneurs and the public with information on the state of our planet. galileo – europe’s own global navigation satellite system, providing a highly accurate, guaranteed global positioning service under civilian control, featuring the world’s most accurate navigation system. the new secure connectivity/iris2 programme – which will provide a new sovereign and secure, space—based communication infrastructure in europe to improve strategic autonomy, digital resilience, security, technological non—dependence and commercial competitiveness. many in the european parliament may not know, but esa was at the origin of both flagship programs, copernicus and galileo. esa is grateful that the eu and the european parliament stepped up to the challenge and enable what have become two of the world’s most successful space programmes. we can all be proud of these achievements and esa is particularly grateful to implement these programmes together with the eu. at esa, we have a full agenda this year. among other things, we are tackling the critical european launcher situation, with the top priority of restoring independent access to space for europe. in copernicus, were preparing the next generation sentinel satellites. and we do need to close a funding gap of eur 721 million. the european parliament’s support will be crucial to achieve this. we will also launch two exciting new science missions: juice, to explore the icy moons of jupiter, in april, and euclid, with which we will better understand dark matter and dark energy, in july. ladies and gentlemen, europe has a rich history of space achievements, including what is possibly dearest to me, in human spaceflight. through our partnership in the international space station, we have secured opportunities for europeans to fly to space and for european scientists to do research in microgravity. we are a strong partner in the nasa—led artemis program of lunar exploration, providing the european service module for the orion spacecraft and a significant portion of gateway, a space station that will fly in lunar orbit. together with nasa, we intend to retrieve and bring back to earth samples of martian soil. as a member of the european astronaut corps, i myself had twice the privilege of representing europe in space. madam president, when we spoke for the first time last september, i was serving as commander of the international space station, the first european woman to do so, but certainly not the last. at esa just last year, we selected a new class of career and reserve astronauts, and over half of them are women. let me add that we selected these new colleagues of mine out of over 23 000 applicants throughout europe. this, ladies and gentlemen, is the power of space to inspire, to spark passions in our youngsters around europe. as an astronaut, i have witnessed that many times, how space can spark passions and dreams, those passions and dreams that make our youngsters choose studies, education and careers in science and technology so that they acquire those competencies that are so strategically important for europe, for our research, for our industrial competitiveness, for our entrepreneurship. i have seen how the ability of sending humans into space acts as a confidence—builder in a society. it builds the confidence that a nation or a community of nations like ours can tackle the really difficult, ambitious challenges. if we can send humans into space, there’s nothing we cannot do, right? let us have that ambition in europe. i have flown to space twice, once on a russian soyuz and once on an american dragon. twice i have fulfilled my dream of flying to space. and if i can allow myself at this point in my life one more dream, that dream is that of seeing one day astronauts flying on a european vehicle. flying our astronauts to space on our own vehicle, welcoming astronauts from other parts of the world on our own european space vehicle – it will be a mighty political, strategic, cultural, psychological, even philosophical symbol. it will be an expression of europe’s ambition to gain a position in space that matches europe’s political and economic weight. it will allow us to continue to cooperate in international partnerships, but do that on a more equal level. it will allow us to not miss out on the enormous strategic and economic opportunities that space offers. and it will allow us to develop and retain in europe vital stem talent and to develop the capabilities, but also the mindset that is needed to solve the many big challenges that we are facing, for the benefit of the citizens in europe and all over the world. let me conclude by recognising the important role that the european parliament, and the itre committee in particular, has played and continues to play in its consistent support of space activities. you have been a competent and reliable partner for esa in all of our discussions and negotiations, as well as in the preparation of the legislative basis for our common space projects galileo, copernicus and now iris2. it is therefore an incredible honour to be able to hand over today the european flag that flew with me on the international space station.
iranian activist and 2003 nobel peace prize winner. – (the following is a transcription of the interpretation of the original speech from farsi into english) your excellencies, honourable president of the european parliament, honourable members of the european parliament and dear guests, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to be among you on such a day and once again addressing you, the members of the european parliament. i would like to thank you for having given me this opportunity. it’s an honour for me. it is as a result of the fight and protests by my people in iran – it was the iranian women who started a revolution, as a result of which the voices of the iranian people have been heard throughout the world, including yourselves. it has guided me to this chair today from where i’m speaking to you. as you’re all aware, the revolution in iran was sparked by the killing of a young girl, who was arrested on the street by the morality police only because a part of her hair was visible from under her scarf and she was killed. the family of this girl filed a complaint, but to no avail. however, the lawyer who was representing the family of this young girl has been prosecuted and has currently been released on bail. moreover, two young reporters – who had published a photograph of this young girl while she was lying on a hospital bed and had filed a report on the funeral of this young girl in the domestic media in iran – were both arrested on the charge of espionage. to date, they are still in prison. i am talking about a country where its government kills with impunity, while the profession of journalism and the legal profession are deemed a crime. of course, i am sure you representatives of europe are well aware of the conduct of the islamic republic, and you know how many of your nationals are currently being held hostage in our prisons. unfortunately, so far, at least two of them have been sentenced to the death penalty. why? because the government in iran, by taking you european nationals hostage, wants to achieve its political objectives. in that country, what is not important is justice – because our courts are not independent, they follow the security forces in iran, and they only implement the ambitious policies of the regime. lack of independence, of course, is one of the most important issues in iran. in my country, iran, in the past 43 years, a large number of people have lost their lives for opposing such a government. now, the regime never publishes any statistics, and we only find out after verification from the families of these victims and how many have been killed. in this revolution, which was sparked by this young girl called mahsa, which started in september 2022, to date, over 550 individuals have been killed and at least 70 of them were juveniles under the age of 18. moreover, at least 20 000 protesters have been arrested. recently, in this very month, the iranian government, in a bid to deceive public opinion, announced that they have pardoned some of these prisoners. of course, yes, some were pardoned and released, however, what is so tragic is that the same number of people that they released, they went on and arrested exactly the same number again. and even more importantly, the protesters who were very influential in these recent protests remain behind bars. freedom of expression in iran is so restricted that since september 2022 alone, 18 lawyers have been arrested merely for defending these protesters. they’re being prosecuted at the moment. some of them remain in prison. and i would like to name one of them, who has been a colleague of mine, and at the moment, he is on hunger strike. his name is mohammad najafi. the rest have been freed on bail. this stems from the lack of independence of the judiciary in iran. in this very week, they announced that 35 artists, filmmakers, actors and actresses – simply because they had supported the people and supported the protests – have had their assets confiscated and their bank accounts frozen. dozens of journalists, bloggers, vloggers – writers – are currently in prison. why? because freedom of expression in iran is extremely limited. the people’s efforts in the past years to change and reform the status quo have been in vain. at the moment, the people continue to stage the protest which started in september 2022. and the people’s demand is that the regime be changed – because they know that, unfortunately, this regime cannot be reformed. the constitution of our country has to change. with this current constitution, no reform is possible. for this very reason, the iranian people want regime change. their slogan is ‘woman, life, freedom’. you can look at this slogan from two perspectives. the first is that it rejects despotic theocracy in iran. we do not want a theocracy in iran. because such a government does not bring the people welfare or freedom. they have even invaded the privacy of people in their own homes. and the positive aspect of this slogan is that we want a democratic government in which religion is separate from state – because, after 43 years of experience, the islamic republic has shown us and the muslims in the region that if a government is mixed with ideology or religion how dangerous it will become. this is an experience and i hope that the other islamic countries in the region will learn from us. now, you european states can rest assured that if democracy is established in iran, there will be fewer refugees entering your countries. currently, one of the main problems of the iranian people is emigration. we are suffering from brain drain. there is no employment in iran. even those who manage to find jobs, their earnings are so low that they cannot eke out a living. only yesterday, the chancellor of one of the most important universities in iran announced that only in one year, 70 professors have fled the country and emigrated. now, if we have democracy in iran, the people will no longer need to emigrate or seek asylum elsewhere. therefore, please support the establishment of democracy in iran. not only would that reduce the number of refugees in europe, but we will also be able to build our country. democracy in iran will not only be to our benefit, but will also bring about peace and calm in the region. because we, the iranian people, oppose the regime’s intervention in other countries. we are against the ambitious policies of the iranian regime. we oppose iran’s nuclear programme. they have spent so much money on this and to no avail. nuclear bombs will not solve iran’s problem. our problem will only be solved through democracy. democracy, i repeat, is not only good for us, but it will also be good for europe. what i have said is just a small fraction of the problems faced by the iranian people. i now use this occasion to call on the democratic states throughout the world: please do not remain indifferent to the violation of human rights in iran, please do not ignore what the iranian people are saying, please do not sign any commercial and trade contracts with the iranian government until the human rights situation in that country improves. a few years ago, in iran, they signed the jcpoa nuclear accord. as a result, a great deal of money was sent to iran and for three years, sanctions were lifted against iran. however, in those three years, the situation of the iranian people did not improve. why? because any money received by the iranian government is either spent on major embezzlement by the iranian regime or it will be used in order to assist lebanon’s hezbollah and paramilitary groups in the region, which has disrupted peace in other countries. you, honourable meps, have you asked yourself why the iranian government has not joined fatf? have you asked yourself why we have not joined the palermo convention? the answer to this question is very simple: if the iranian government joins the fatf, it will not be able to continue with its embezzlement. money laundering will end in iran. therefore, until we join these conventions, please, i urge you, do not forge any contracts with iran. because be sure: the money will not be spent on the welfare of the people. there is extreme poverty in iran. however, the iranian government wants to ascribe all these problems to the sanctions. that is not right. the people’s poverty stems from the major embezzlement, corruptions and the wrong policies of the government. sanctions are effective. in conclusion, in the recent protests, for the first time, we saw high school children taking to the streets to join the ranks of protesters. why? because they know that they have no future. now, to create fear and intimidate those children and their families, they have been using chemical gases to poison young girls at their schools. please write in your history books what this regime did to teenage girls. they’re using chemical poisonous gases against women. initially, the iranian government denied these reports. they said, ‘no, they’re fake. that’s not happening.’ however, when the number of these girls who were poisoned grew and the families and the teachers protested, they said, ‘what is going on?’ then they had to accept that this had happened. but as usual, they gave the usual rhetoric: that this is the work of our enemies inside and outside the country and they arrested a few people. but everyone knows who the real culprits are. they’re not the ones that the government has arrested, pretending they were responsible. but knowing that these poisoning of the girls is continuing, it shows that those arrested were not the real culprits. i hope that my remarks have helped in a way to convince you honourable meps to stand on the right side of history. please make sure that the irgc, the revolutionary guards, are named as a terrorist group. the irgc, based on the constitution of the islamic republic of iran – i repeat, the irgc, based on the constitution of the islamic republic of iran – are tasked with protecting the regime. they’re separate from the military and the army, which is to protect iran and the people of iran. these violent acts are being committed by the irgc. once again, i urge you: do not ignore the widespread violation of human rights in iran. democracy in iran, once established, will not only bring calm to iran, but bring peace and calm to the whole region. and without any doubt, the situation with the current government in iran is not any help for the situation in ukraine either. thank you very much for having listened to me. (the members gave the speaker a standing ovation)
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the result was very clear and the report was accepted. i have therefore indicated that parliament's first reading is closed. i just heard it wasn't on the display, and we're in the process of correcting that mistake.
i would like to make a comment on mr kolaja's speech in the interests of order. the report by mrs düpont was approved by 507 votes to 99 with 10 abstentions. that's why i said "accept".
i can only say to you, mr president, that as president i am very much aware of who is voting. i can tell you that your polling data is very much out of line with the result in the middle. this is my problem, not the problem of a single group.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i did not want to politicize the vote we are having. i would just like to make it clear that the epp will accept any result in this chamber. the problem is that your group does not seem to have a common position. that's the problem.
may i now put an end to this skirmish? everyone has a free mandate, and that's why i have these different signs, which i have a problem with the gentlemen sitting in the front row.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to move the following oral amendment to amendment 5 on paragraph 4: ‘condemns the ongoing blockade of the lachin corridor, which is worsening the humanitarian crisis in nagorno-karabakh; condemns the deadly incident between azerbaijan and the armenians of nagorno-karabakh on 5 march 2023, which resulted in multiple deaths and once again jeopardised the process towards establishing peace between the two countries.’
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate. (the sitting was suspended for a short time)
the s&d group has notified the president of a decision relating to changes to appointments within a committee. this decision will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and takes effect on the date of this announcement.
the minutes of yesterday’s sitting and the texts adopted are available. are there any comments on the minutes of yesterday’s sitting? i don't see any. the minutes are approved.
the next item on the agenda is the topical debate (rule 162): ‘more europe, more jobs: we are building the competitive economy of tomorrow for the benefit of all’ (2023/2601(rsp)). i should like to inform members that for this debate there is no catch-the-eye procedure and that no blue cards will be accepted. i would also like to invite the speakers to keep the time as we are running a bit late, so i want you to respect the times.
thank you, mr séjourné, and i forgot to mention that you are the author of this topical debate.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, as you know, long-term competitiveness is one of the swedish presidency’s priorities and i’m therefore very glad about the convening of this debate today. when the leaders meet next week for the european council, they will address europe’s long-term competitiveness. and the message from this parliament today in the in the morning was very clear: europe needs to once again focus on its competitiveness. this is this is an issue that is at the heart of the swedish presidency. investing in europe’s long-term competitiveness is how we create more jobs and build a stronger economy for all. the key to do this is, is to focus on our on our biggest and strongest assets, namely the single market and sustainable trade. like the european parliament, the council is also concerned with the multiple crises that are seriously affecting the economic situation in our continent. part of the response to this is the green deal industrial plan that addresses some of the immediate competitive challenges that our businesses are facing. together with the soon to be finalised fit for 55 package, it sends a signal to investors and businesses that the european union is stepping up to seize the net-zero opportunity. but when designing a policy response to the multiple crisis situation that we are in, we must also consider the view that europe has been lagging behind its main competitors for quite some time now. in fact, long before covid, the energy crisis and the war in ukraine, over the last four decades, our growth rates have been sluggish compared to the united states and many oecd countries. our productivity is lower than that of the united states and the g7. europe spends far less than our competitors on r&d, and it makes our economies less competitive. that will be a key issue going forward. reskilling and upskilling is of great importance. it is a major driver in particular for smes and their competitiveness and access to qualified labour. this needs to be addressed and that is what the swedish presidency’s priorities on competitiveness are about. it is therefore welcome that the commission will present a strong strategy on long-term competitiveness later this week – tomorrow. clearly, the natural starting point for a comprehensive european approach to competitiveness is the single market. for the past three decades, the single market has offered europe’s businesses a large-scale home market to grow and compete globally. it has withstood the test of time and we need the single market to continue to deliver over the next 30 years. for this to happen, the single market cannot be taken for granted. the anticipated commission communication on the single market at 30 will be important. the ideas put forward in that together with the forthcoming strategy to boost growth and productivity will provide us with a solid basis for how to strengthen our competitiveness in the coming decades. these initiatives will guide leaders’ discussions at the march european council, where the intention is that a long-term approach to european competitiveness will be anchored. i have outlined here some fundamental milestones for building the competitive economy of tomorrow to the benefit of all. so let me stress the firm commitment of the swedish presidency to move this work forward and and we count on support from the european parliament to help us in this endeavour. thank you very much for your attention. i am looking forward to the debate.
member of the commission. mr president, madam president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, thank you first for setting up this very topical debate, which perfectly follows up on the discussion which took place this morning on the preparation of the european council. europe has faced multiple crises in the last few years, which forced us to react quickly and address the immediate challenges. the eu response to the pandemic, with nextgenerationeu as well as the sure instrument, has mitigated the socioeconomic consequences of the crisis, facilitated a rapid recovery and set the conditions to boost the reforms and investments needed for the green and digital transitions. nextgenerationeu remains a valid response to today's challenges, linked to the eu's energy security, sustainable industrial competitiveness and the industrial transition to a net-zero economy while contributing to upward social and economic convergence. this is true thanks to the unique design and foresight in the priorities of the recovery and resilience facility, where additional funding of up to 268 billion remains available. obviously, as asked for in your resolution of 16 february, we have to work on new own resources, including a financial transaction tax to ensure sustainable financing on a long-term basis. implementing the strategic reforms and investments envisaged under member states' recovery and resilience plans timely and fully by 2026 will be essential to improve the resilience and competitive position of the european economy. they respond to country-specific recommendations with a focus on improving green and digital infrastructures and the regulatory and business environment. member states will soon be revising their recovery and resilience plans in a longer-term perspective and with focus on europe's competitive future in an increasingly fraught global economic and geopolitical landscape. we want europe to lead the clean-tech industrial revolution, competing with other industrial nations, such as the us and china, having similar ambitions while relaunching its unique socioeconomic model. a strong manufacturing base in europe along the clean technology value chain ensures that the european green deal remains our growth strategy and a source of quality jobs. climate neutrality and digital excellence are at the core of the union's industrial strategy as it has been updated. a strong and innovative industry is essential for europe's prosperity, but also security in the new geopolitical environment. as president von der leyen said this morning, we learned the lesson about dependencies. the goal set with the green deal industrial plan is to enhance the competitiveness of europe's net-zero industry and accelerate the transition to climate neutrality, providing a more supportive environment for scaling up the eu's manufacturing capacity for the net-zero technologies. europe's competitiveness is not an aim in itself. first, it brings together many factors: economic, social and environmental ones. it builds on resilient and cohesive societies. it is driven by innovation and productivity growth. finally, its objective is to create quality jobs, good working conditions, territorial cohesion in the union and the strong position of the eu in the changing global economy. as president von der leyen stated, we have once in a generation the opportunity to secure the eu's industrial lead for our companies and people. it means turning skills into quality jobs and innovation into mass production. in this effort, the contribution and participation of our smes is crucial for preserving and relaunching our economic and productive landscape. a true european competitive shift cannot be successful without investing in key enabling factors such as technologies and human capital. the green deal industrial plan focuses on four key pillars that will be the key to achieve this predictable and simplified regulatory environment, faster access to funding, open trade for resilient supply chains, as well as skills for quality jobs. social dialogue and good industrial relations are also key for the success of this major industrial transformation. at the european council meeting of 9 february, eu leaders called for bolder and more ambitious action to boost competitiveness simply and speed up state aid procedures while maintaining the level playing field in the single market and increase the flexibility of eu funds. in its important resolution on an eu strategy to boost industrial competitiveness, trade and quality jobs, parliament has stressed that the european industrial strategy should be designed both for securing european leadership in clean energy technologies and for improving the existing industrial base and supporting its transformation to provide high quality jobs and economic growth for all europeans. against this background, we will put forward a net-zero industry act and the critical raw materials act. this is scheduled for tomorrow. we remain committed to proposing a european sovereignty fund before summer 23. together with the competitiveness, communication and single market at 30, they are our response to rising challenges at global level. this brings me finally to the importance of jobs, as the title of this debate recalled. we want more europe and more jobs. a key aspect of these important initiatives, which will be boost our single market, is their job creation potential. these new green-tech jobs, which require skilling upskilling and reskilling of the workforce, need to be quality jobs based on adequate working conditions. you are right, to face the international competition at the level of investments, we need more europe, a better functioning internal market, strong european strategic supply chains, more and better coordinated r&d, as the president stressed this morning. we have to support more important projects of common european interest. this is an indispensable tool to build a stronger european economy: not 27 european economies, one strong european economy. our answer to the labour and skill shortages and mismatches must lead to full employment and an inclusive labour market reaching out especially to women and young people and especially needs. they are over 8 million the eu and our education system have therefore to guarantee equal opportunities, and vocational training has to be better valued and extended. the eu competitive shift will only be successful if its technological, industrial, economic, labour and social components will be mutually reinforcing. the european pillar of social rights plan and its eu 2030 headline targets on employment and skills are very much in line with these efforts. skills leading to quality jobs are fundamental pillar of our green deal industrial plan. we are following through on our announcements to step up actions in the european year of skills. and this brings me to my last point. we have the highest social and labour standards in the world, and this is part of our competitive advantage. we must protect this by ensuring a strong industrial base for the future. that's what we owe future generations.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, dear commissioner, dear minister, dear colleagues, how can we achieve more europe, more jobs and a more competitive economy for all? the answer is by investing in our citizens. investing in skills. investing in our human capital. we need better and more adapted programmes for skilling, upskilling and reskilling to integrate more people in the labour market and decrease the unemployment rate. and this income will contribute directly to the economy and to the european industry. the investment in skills needs to go hand in hand with a social investment in people. we need to give more room to private investment and, in particular, to social impact investment. what future can we have for our industry if we do not look at the young people? the strategic investment in children, in youth, should become the new norm with equal importance as bricks and mortar investments. investment in next generation policies is essential to ensure that children and young people are indeed equipped for the future. the european year of skills is the momentum to become more ambitious in our action. our economy cannot be more competitive without a strong human capital and without active young people.
mr president, renew wants to have more europe and more jobs. but we want well-paid quality jobs. renew and the epp and even the swedish presidency pretend to create jobs only by focusing on competitiveness. and it seems to be the new buzzword. they combine this with a focus on the green and the digital transition, and at the same time, some member states are pushing to have these investments excluded from the deficit calculations. but this by itself doesn’t create well-paid quality jobs and we will not allow these investments to be used as an excuse to cut down our work on the social dimension. we cannot allow cuts on social investments because to be truly competitive, we need to pursue well-paid quality jobs. biden did this in the ira (inflation reduction act). he went for good paying union jobs by that companies pay their fair share. i think we can do this too. we have to put the money from taxing companies to good use by creating well-paid, quality jobs. we don’t have to put the burden of the green transition on the back of the workers again.
mr president, commissioner schmit and minister roswall, we are at a crossroads for the european economy and for world politics. climate change, the pandemic, the war in ukraine, all these successive crises are showing us that it is very important to change the direction of development on our continent, to support the autonomy of the european union and to invest massively in innovation. we need to support green industry, here including not just traditional industry, but can produce in much less polluting ways with innovation, but also industry that will support renewable energy, recyclable and reusable products. innovation must be present and financially supported in all economic areas, from energy production to industry and textile recycling, to agriculture, to education, because these will be the jobs that will add value to our economy, to the economy of the european union.
madam president, the problems that mr gahler and ms loiseau have indicated – a lack of ammunition that is there for the moment, the fact that some countries who make ammunition don’t want to send it to ukraine, like switzerland – this is all proof of the fact that we have an enormous problem in europe, and that’s the lack of a european defence community. without the help of the americans, this war would be already over and in the wrong direction, with the wrong result. we don’t have a european defence community. and so, what i hope is that the commission comes forward, as fast as possible, during the war, by the end of the war, with a strategic concept of creating a european defence community. it’s not because you buy together in the epf some weapons that you have a european defence community. it’s a good measure, but it’s not enough. the training of soldiers, it is good that we do that. but that’s not a european defence community. a european defence community is putting together the eur 250 billion we spend on defence. we spend 30% of the americans on defence and can only do 10% of the operations of the american army. why? duplication, duplication, duplication. one hundred and thirteen weapon systems – the problem in ukraine today. also in ammunition. and so what the european commission and the european institutions and the european council have to do is, as fast as possible, before the end of the war, come up with a strategic concept for european defence – not in contradiction with nato, but as the european pillar of nato. that has to be the lesson of this brutal war and this invasion of russia in ukraine.
mrs. yoncheva, what irony to mention nichts neues im westen, and not to say that there were soldiers, three soldiers with a rifle, in the first world war. mr. wallace, what irony is it that you care about the poor of the world, the underdeveloped south and support putin in this house and say that ukrainians don't need help. member states with weapons stocks, what do you hold them to? what day are you keeping them for? now that others are dying for your interests, what good is keeping them at home? we have to help europe, ukraine with the peace facility, the european peace facility, and the member states have to deliver everything they can. and president zelenskiy said very clearly what his needs are: artillery is the number 1 systems, as well as ammunition, such as shells in large quantities, to stop russia. not to shoot into their territory, but to kick them out of ours. that's what this is about. (the speaker agreed to reply to a 'blue card' intervention)
blue-card reply. – i think you are irish, if my memory serves me well, but you might have been chamberlain in the 1930s proclaiming peace, a peace that is so elusive that it led to the biggest catastrophe of the second world war because actions were not taken when the time was right. how did the extreme left in this house become equal to the extreme right of other days?
member of the commission. – madam president, dear colleagues, thank you for the debate. the commission’s internal procedures aim to ensure that the commission and its staff cannot be unduly influenced by a third party. i agree with you that we need to operate under the highest ethical standards. whenever the assessment of these rules by individual staff members puts these standards into question, the commission’s competent services check whether the rules have, in fact, been respected. the changes that we put in place with immediate effect on 7 march that i’ve addressed in my opening remarks, i hope address the concerns that have been raised in this house. they aim to show that the commission is ready to lead by example, and i very much thank you for this debate. many of you have addressed the issue of trust, and trust matters in all of our institutions, and that’s why the commission has responded very strongly with what i have outlined in my opening remarks. a question was raised with me by mr simon. i don’t have an answer for you. i will only give answers when i have the information, and i think we will get back to you directly on the question you raised. again, thank you, colleagues, for this important debate.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on combating organised crime in the eu (2023/2591(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, security is one of the core priorities for the swedish presidency. the developments in connection with russia’s aggression against ukraine will continue to have a major impact on the european agenda. first and foremost, it is our responsibility to support ukraine in all possible forms. secondly, the war makes the connection between internal and external security increasingly clear. this is why the presidency has initiated closer cooperation between the common security and defence policy and justice and home affairs council to improve efficiency, avoid overlaps and to increase coherence between these two fields. weapons from the western balkans still pose a problem more than 20 years later. we should learn from this. in february, the presidency hosted a conference on the smuggling of firearms in the context of russia’s aggressions against ukraine. when a new crisis appears, criminal organisations often use these situations to profit from the vulnerability of people in need. we can never accept that people fleeing war end up in exploitation and abuse. the current situation has reminded us of the joint obligation to address the demands that foster trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation. targeting all forms of sexual violence against women and children is a priority for the swedish presidency. the presidency is therefore hosting a conference on prevention models to address the demands that foster trafficking for sexual purposes. furthermore, we hope to make considerable progress on the commission’s proposals to amend the directive on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings. honourable members, digital development is a game changer for our society, including for the law enforcement and judicial authorities. ensuring their ability to function online and at the same time guaranteeing strong safeguards is essential to ensuring security. the political agreements on the e—evidence package is a great step in the right direction after mutual efforts from parliament and the council. it strikes a balance between new, efficient tools desperately needed and safeguards for fundamental rights. but we see that more needs to be done. the presidency had proposed to create a high—level expert group to propose concrete measures to ensure that lawful access to data remains possible. one of the drivers behind organised crime is money. the presidency committed to finalising the examination on the directive on assets recovery and confiscation so that a general approach can be approved in the council before summer. we also want to finalise the negotiations on the revision of the financial information directive regarding the access to bank account registers. honourable members, the smuggling of drugs is a challenge to security and people’s health. in this context, we greatly value the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addictions. turning it to a fully—fledged eu agency will make it even more effective and forward—looking. we are committed to conclude the negotiation as soon as possible so that the new agency can become fully operational in 2024. last week at the justice and home affairs council, we organised the discussion with belgium and the netherlands on drug—related organised crime, since most of the cocaine in europe is smuggled through ports such as antwerp and rotterdam. in many member states, including sweden, attempts by criminal organisations to threaten or influence public institutions make drug—related and organised crimes a systematic threat. criminals and terrorists operating in europe are taking advantages of the free movement in the schengen area. a reinforced and automatic exchange of information on criminals and suspects under the new prüm scheme can contribute to fighting crime. i therefore encourage the parliament to adopt its negotiations mandate as soon as possible, and i look forward to a constructive negotiation. thank you for your attention, i am looking forward to this debate.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for putting this debate on the agenda. not long ago, we discussed terrorism, and rightly so. organised crime is a big threat to society, as is terrorism. when criminals kill lawyers, journalists and threaten politicians, they attack the heart of our democracies. when criminals kill our children, like 11-year-old firdaous in antwerp, they attack us in the heart. she was the innocent victim in a drugs war. sixty per cent of criminal groups use corruption to buy people, buy politicians and buy power and to cross borders, infiltrate airports and harbours. criminals use violence to intimidate, torture, murder. criminals undermine the economy. eighty per cent of crime groups infiltrate the legal economy, investing in construction, restaurants and hotels, but also food, flowers and oil; buying properties and luxury goods to launder money; building up a parallel underground financial system. one hundred and eighty nationalities are involved in organised crime in the eu. seventy per cent of crime groups are active in more than three member states. they are increasingly sophisticated, operating like multinational corporations with global supply lines in a global, organised network. it takes a network to fight a network. if criminals work together, police must work better together, like last november, when operation desert light brought down a ‘super cartel’ responsible for 30% of cocaine distribution in the eu. supported by europol, police from spain, france and belgium, the netherlands and united arab emirates arrested nearly 50 suspects and captured 30 tonnes of cocaine. we want more success stories like these. police work together in empact, the eu policy cycle against criminal threats. we proposed the first-ever strategies against organised crime and trafficking of human beings. we also proposed action plans against firearms and drugs, and police cooperation and information exchange is at the heart of all of them. we’ve adopted the police cooperation package, including the recommendation on operational cooperation and the directive on police information exchange. we’re updating the prüm framework to make police information exchange more efficient. we’ve boosted the mandate of europol, so europol can work with private parties and third countries. and we clarified that europol can process big data and develop artificial intelligence because no one can process one billion messages by hand. that’s how many messages police captured in the sky ecc case alone, when they gained access to criminal encrypted communication with spectacular results. the sky ecc and encrochat and anom cases together sparked more than 7 000 operations, over 10 000 arrests, 500 tonnes of drugs captured and nearly eur 1 billion in criminal cash. criminals are going dark, using encryption and other tools to hide their crimes. police lag behind and we have fewer possibilities to enforce the law online than offline. but almost all crimes today have an online component, not only organised crimes. police must have the legal and technical means to fight these crimes while fully upholding fundamental rights. we need to go after criminal money. now 99% remains in criminal hands. only 1% is being confiscated. we have proposed a new law to freeze and seize assets before they slip across the borders, targeting the top criminal bosses by including confiscation of unexplained wealth. and soon we will propose a new law to criminalise all forms of corruption with unified definitions and harmonised penalties across the european union. drug trafficking is the most profitable and most violent crime. killings, shootings, bombings, arson, kidnapping, torture are sparked by gangland warfare over drugs. there is no such thing as fair-trade cocaine. my colleague ylva johansson told me how in colombia she saw from a helicopter the gaps made in the rainforest for growing coca leaves, polluting the environment with chemicals. and she met villagers in the very same room where criminals murdered their mayor because he dared to cultivate sustainable crops rather than coca. in our streets and cities, the violence and corruption is local, but the drug trade is intercontinental. this is why we agreed with colombia to improve security of ports on both sides of the atlantic and set up our intercontinental police cooperation. here in the eu, we’ve made the fight against drugs the focus of a schengen evaluation. this year, at the mid-term point of the organised crime and drug strategies, we’ll assess progress and present new actions to fight organised crime and the drug trafficking. it takes a network to fight a network. if criminals work together across borders, across continents, we must work together better. if criminals organise, we must organise better. that’s at the heart of everything that we do.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, organised crime is a major threat to the internal security of the european union and to the safety of our citizens, and it requires a common european response. more than 70% of criminal networks are active in more than three european countries and they are becoming increasingly more violent. according to europol, organised crime within the eu has never posed such a major threat to citizens and our societies as it does today. we need to disrupt the business models of criminal networks and ensure that crime never pays: follow the money in order to freeze and confiscate assets and target criminal leadership. for the epp, the security of european citizens and the fight against organised crime is an absolute priority. europe needs to show that we can deliver in real terms, and this is why last year we proposed 50 concrete measures to tackle crime and we will continue to put this high on europe’s agenda. and we are happy to find in the swedish presidency a like—minded and a constructive partner in our mission to keep europe safe. and we look forward to cooperate on our shared priorities: strengthening the role of agencies like europol and eurojust; better coordination of criminal investigations and prosecutions; implementation of the interoperability framework; further improving existing crucial legislation like the prüm framework; advanced passenger information; making e—evidence work in practice. we have to make use of all available instruments in order to fight crime, and we cannot expect law enforcement authorities to do this alone. local authorities, tax authorities, labour inspectorates, can all play a major role in addressing certain challenges, but they face huge obstacles in cross—border cooperation. we have worked very hard to remove those cross—border obstacles for police and judicial cooperation. we need to do the same for the administrative approach to organised crime by denying criminals the use of the legal administrative infrastructure. more intense monitoring, better screening and proper cross—border exchange of administrative information to complement police cooperation and strengthen the law enforcement system should also be a european priority. borders often still create obstacles for authorities, while criminals use them to their advantage. this needs to end right now.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat organised crime, and it is not the commission's intention to take any action to combat it. more than 75% of crime in the european union is organised and transnational. and so we welcome the fact that the council has clearly set out its ten priorities in assessing this threat, which include, of course, terrorism, drug trafficking, economic and environmental crime and the trafficking of firearms. but as socialists, we are particularly concerned about the frontal fight against human trafficking and the sexual and labour exploitation of particularly vulnerable people, such as women and children, and the abominable trafficking of organs. but, as the chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i would also like to stress in this debate that we are dealing with the proposal for a directive on the recovery and confiscation of assets and the package against money laundering from illicit business, or money laundering. it is essential to complete it and to establish, in addition, the authority for combating money laundering and the financing of terrorism. but i conclude by saying that it is important that all this be done while preserving the most precious asset of the european construction, the free movement of people. so let us not do it by introducing unnecessary or disproportionate restrictions on free movement and thereby eroding or damaging the schengen area which is, without doubt, the most precious asset. let us respect that in the fight against organized crime.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, ‘organised crime continues to pose a significant threat to the safety and security of our citizens. our collective response must involve law enforcement agencies, judicial authorities, intelligence services and civil society. we must enhance our capabilities in areas such as information sharing, intelligence analysis and cross—border cooperation to disrupt the activities of criminal networks’. this is, dear colleagues, a speech written by an ai tool, and i agree with it. basically, everyone can speak brilliantly about countering organised crime; people, politicians, machines, it sounds great. the difference between us and an ai tool is that we need to act on it. we need to make it reality. we need to adopt strong legislative proposals. we need to enforce them in the member states. this is the difference. we have an anti—money laundering package coming soon and i hope that this house will have a very powerful position on countering money laundering. we need a strong amla, we need fius that can work with each other. we need access to information for journalists and for the civil society. this is what we need to produce as decision makers. otherwise we can kindly ask ai to produce nice speeches and this is it.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, dear colleagues, the universal declaration of human rights states that the people of the united nations have reaffirmed their faith in human rights, in the dignity and worth of human person, in the equal rights of men and women. in other words, a human person can be either a man or a woman. but what is a woman? a candidate to the us supreme court, when asked, could not answer. this raises serious questions about how the actual rights of women could be defended, since more and more in our society cannot define any more what a woman is. this is the biggest threat to human rights, especially to women’s rights, since a woman is more and more considered to be a feeling, not an ontological reality which differs from a man. men who feel being a woman are allowed to compete in women’s sports, even contact or power-lifting sports, which clearly creates a disadvantage for the actual women. supporting human rights defenders is a duty that we have in order to defend humanity. and this starts from acknowledging the fact that men and women, despite being genetically and biologically different, are equal in dignity and rights.
mr president, i welcome this citizens' initiative and the over one million signatures of those alarmed by the disappearance of pollinators, and i think it's the perfect time to talk about the incoherence of the european executive. for example, he is proposing legislation on nature restoration to combat the decline of pollinators, even as he prepares to ratify, at any cost, the largest trade agreement in the history of the union with south america. does the commission know that argentina is among the countries with the highest rates of destruction of bee populations? or are we negotiating pesticide-reduction legislation without alternative substances for farmers? is the commission aware that the amount of pesticides in agriculture in brazil has doubled? romanian farmers know that without bees there is no agriculture, which is why they use the least pesticide per hectare in the european union. meanwhile, they have among the lowest subsidies and three million tons of grain not sold in the last year, for which they will apparently receive, in mockery, small amounts in the form of compensation. so i ask the commission: do we still need farmers, healthy and affordable food? if so, a little bit of consistency would be very good for saving both bees and the agricultural sector.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, dear colleagues, the european commission under ursula von der leyen is not the guardian of the eu treaties any more, but the guardian of corruption, opacity and unaccountability. when it has to defend and protect the rights and liberties of all the european citizens, the european commission is mostly passive, but only acts to promote and protect special interest groups that are hostile to both people and member states. the commission is on steroids. the relationship between the european commission and the member states should be of sincere cooperation and in full mutual respect, assisting each other in carrying out tasks which flow from the treaties. in the pegasus scandal, many member states have not answered questions from pega committee: if, when, why and to what extent they use a certain software to spy on their citizens, including journalists or political opponents. in the face of such a severe violation of human rights, the european commission stays passive. at the same time, the commission has a credibility problem lecturing others about respecting human rights, while ursula von der leyen is under investigation for corruption. the european commission must stop acting subjectively and discriminatorily and instead be a role model in respecting human rights, transparency and the eu treaties.
mr president, mr first vice-president, we must find and implement the best solutions to protect the environment. but let us remember that the european green deal itself states that this transition must be made at the expense of a europe that is prosperous, that is fair to all and that has a modern and competitive economy. this commission proposal to revise the f-gas regulation puts entire industries, jobs, fair competition on the european market and the energy independence of the member states at risk. it is not smart to make decisions that our societies and our states are not yet ready for and will not be ready for after 2026. to be realistic, we must first ensure that the necessary steps to phase out basic equipment from f-gases are taken gradually, complementing the eu's climate and energy ambitions, without harming ourselves, deepening our energy dependence on other states. and we saw what happened when we were dependent on russia and blackmailed us.
the joint debate is now closed, and as you heard from many colleagues, the vote will be held tomorrow. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the report on f-gases is a sad example of good intentions compromised by a lack of realism and populist-ecological excess. i abstained in the final vote because a number of amendments, against which i voted, altered the substance of the european commission's proposal. a clear example is the time limits for the prohibition of products, systems and equipment. the commission should be able to impose a ban on the use of fluorinated greenhouse gases in refrigeration equipment and on the use of fluorinated greenhouse gases in air conditioning equipment and heat pumps. i am in favour of phasing out fluorinated gases because of their greenhouse effect, but the reduction must be gradual so that the sectors concerned can adapt technologically to develop clean alternatives and citizens are not forced to buy new products before the end of their life cycle. it is not normal for industry already hit by the pandemic and energy crisis, the market affected by supply chain dysfunctions and consumers burdened by the hardships of daily living to be so upset. - what for? for the accelerated phase-out of fluorinated gases, which account for 2.5% of eu greenhouse gas emissions!
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. more and more europeans are no longer buying their products in local shops on the pavement. they shop online in online shops and online marketplaces, and this presents us with a new challenge. because while our product safety rules have worked for many years in the physical offline world and worked really well and were really good, the same does not apply online when you are dealing with vendors and especially from third countries. in short, the consumer risks buying the cat in the bag. toys with carcinogens, flammable cell phone chargers or heating pads with shock absorbers. our rules have not kept up with the times, and so it is good that we are doing something now. and i am particularly pleased that we are now making sure that products imported from outside the eu into the eu are subject to stricter rules so that those who do this can be held accountable if the product does not meet our rules. but that doesn't mean we're done. we've only patched a few holes. i still think there is more to do in terms of securing products online when consumers shop. but it's good that we're getting started. and this is better than nothing.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the technological developments of the last 20 years, the advances in research, have made a revision of product safety legislation absolutely necessary. i support innovation and new technologies. but we must emphasize that all manufacturers must focus on two aspects: the benefits that a product has, but also the risks that it brings. at the same time, we as consumers must accept the need for continuous training. we need to know the risks we're facing in the digital age, and learn how to avoid them. in an age of new products and technologies, consumer safety can be guaranteed by very good legislation, which is necessarily accompanied by adequate information.
mr president, if the commission representatives have been following the recent news about the turmoil in the european agricultural sector, i hope they have understood that it is time to make a decision. do they still want european food and strong farmers, or do they want to eliminate both to put us on the menu of imported food that violates almost every rule set by brussels over the last 60 years? the cacophony of commission decisions is hard to fathom. they ask for export support from ukraine, the border countries comply, but when it comes to helping their farmers for their losses, they throw them out, pennies. he says he wants agricultural prosperity in the green deal, but without consulting the sector and without impact studies, he makes decisions that risk drastically diminishing productivity and, by implication, the food of europeans. he's preparing to remove a pesticide vital to beet plantations, while opening the hatch to compensate those who have already complied with the ban. so the european farmers are waiting for you to tell them what you're up to. unless you've already decided to get rid of them.
mr president, there are national issues which are european issues and which we must discuss here. our duty today is to speak of the brutal repression, unlike anywhere else in europe, that is currently taking place in france. as i speak to you, commissioner, a protester is still between life and death. my dear colleagues, france, a country which was a beacon for freedom in the world, is today taking the dangerous path of an increasingly violent and authoritarian form of government which undermines the guarantee of individual rights, violates fundamental rights and, ultimately, weakens democracy and the european model. montesquieu said that in order to prevent abuse of power, power must stop power. this is what we expect from europe and our european parliament.
mr president, commissioner, i wish to address the european commission from this podium. i know that tomorrow there will be an important meeting concerning romania: the assessment of the supplement to the budget needed by romanian farmers who have been affected by the drought crisis, by the crisis generated by the grain that we have received and managed to export from ukraine, a country heavily affected by the unjust and unjustified, brutal invasion of russia. we all applauded this extraordinary opening in this chamber, but i ask the commission tomorrow to allocate an additional 100 million euro, money needed to help romanian farmers at such a complicated time, to ignore the poor preparation of the government in bucharest on this assessment and to provide a minimum of 100 million euro, which is absolutely necessary for romanian farmers in this period.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in every plenary session we talk about human rights, about the need to work towards reducing inequality and guaranteeing the rights of all citizens, wherever they may be. it is good to care for and fight for universal values, but first we must ensure that human rights are respected at home in the european union, and at this hour, dear colleagues, we cannot hide the fact that romanians and bulgarians do not have the same rights as all other european citizens. romania is not in the schengen area, therefore the right of free movement, one of the pillars of this construction, does not apply to romanians. we are not second-class citizens and it has been more than 15 years since this situation has been resolved, since we have been pretending not to see the violation of rights that all european citizens should enjoy. if we want fairness and equal rights, we must first secure them here at home, in the european union.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, once again, under the pretext of alleged equality, inequality is being created, including among women. some of you call this intersectionality. i call it injustice. it is a 'slogan' directive: the title has nothing to do with what we are being told. it is not about helping women, but about introducing a gender ideology into our laws, imposing itself on the member states, dominating companies and our lives, for equality where attitude and talent are not recognised. meanwhile, european companies, their workers and families are being battered by the green deal, inflation and stifling bureaucracy. now they have to go through bad regulation that will create a bad work environment and a breakdown of litigation. that is why i have tabled, on behalf of my group, a motion for a resolution which i invite you to follow if you are for the real progress of the men and women of the union, not for the demagogy of the left. let us show the council and society that there are still in this house those who, in different groups and in different countries, are rebelling against this grave error in defence of our security, our prosperity and our future.
mr president the objective of ensuring full equality between women and men in pay is also an overriding objective in the world of work. however, this draft directive lost sight of this objective when it was forced to include issues that had been brought into fashion by a liberal mainstream. the worst part is that the draft directive seeks to rewrite the treaty on the functioning of the european union by means of a piece of legislation that is not lawful at all. i will not give my name to this lawlessness. we've been working for decades to make sure women get paid the same as men. when we finally achieve that goal, we realize that the focus of the debate is no longer equal pay, but whether men are men and women are women. this is ridiculous and absurd. we are lawmakers. we've been commissioned by the electorate to close the gender pay gap. that's what we have to deal with, nothing else.
mr president, pay discrimination is not allowed in our treaties. it is denied by the equal pay directive. somehow, after tens of years of existence in the eu, we still lack both in the equal pay for equal work, not to mention equal value. the 30 % on salaries on women – this is not acceptable. what you do not know, you cannot act upon. this is the reason why this pay transparency directive is so important. it gives the possibilities for employers and employees to have the full picture: what is the legal forms and basis for their salary, based on the competence, on the demands of the work and other special qualifications – not the gender. this gives the first possibility to really see where we stand and to take the positive actions. it’s important that it is criminal to discriminate in concrete by gender. i find it extremely important that by this directive we are going to have the harmonised criteria, indicators and application systems developed by eige together with the commission. this ensures the comparability between different industries, member states, public and private sectors, so we actually know where we stand. it is important that the commission, as parliament asks, reviews the directive within due time so to how to see to expand its coverage because now it is covering less than 1 % of the enterprises and 50 % of the workers, so that it covers all the workers and all the employers. and maybe active equality programming and eradication of these problems could be included in this review.
mr president, the principle of equal pay for equal work has been enshrined in our treaties since 1957. and this is not an invention (although we often hear from the anti—gender ideologists on the right that this is an idea from feminists); this is in our treaty and we are fighting for a union of equality and you are defending patriarchy. that’s the difference. in 2012, we had recommendations. the commission came up with recommendations. some countries followed these recommendations and the gender pay gap closed in these countries. this is again an example that often recommendations are not enough. we need legislation and i’m happy that we got this legislation today. for the s&d group, it was very important that this directive work for all women: women in small companies and in bigger companies. unfortunately, the threshold is now companies of 100 who have to report annually. but we were able to bring it down from 250 to 100, and we were all able together to strengthen the individual rights of workers in this directive, which is very important. so this directive now works for all women. remember, it was the women during covid who brought us through tough times: the women in the supermarkets, the women in the hospitals who worked very hard and who made the whole society function. so i’m very happy also that these individual rights are much strengthened. trade union rights are strengthened also. and we have the shift of the burden of proof on pay—related issues. the burden of proof will shift from the worker to the employer. i’m very proud also on the gender—inclusive language which we put in there. this directive works for women and men in all their diversity. we are out of this binary view. we are in a linear view. there is a diversity of men; there is a diversity of women. this has been stated by rulings from the ecj and therefore it’s good that this is a modern legislation. thank you very much to the two young feminist rapporteurs, samira and kira. and i’m proud as an old male feminist also to have been participating in this. i want to thank also my good cooperation with evelyn regner in the s&d team. our team was fantastic too, so we did great teamwork together and we did something for the women in our european union.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are often asked: what do we do here in the european parliament for the citizens? every time i go home to romania, i get this question: what do you do to change our daily lives for the better? a concrete example of our legislative work, of the work we have in the european parliament, is the directive on equal pay between men and women. for 60 years we have been talking about principles and values that are not translated into practice. we see how women in society, including in romania, have lower wages than men, and when you retire, things get worse. today's initiative has a direct impact on people's lives, especially women's lives, and tackles discrimination by eliminating the gender pay gap and ensuring that all people, all european citizens, are paid fairly and equally for the same work. the directive will not only improve the economic situation of women, but will also have a positive impact on society as a whole. i thank the reporters (samira rafaela, kira peter-hansen), all the colleagues who have been shadow reporters and i am truly grateful and proud to be part of this team.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we have seen time and again in this house that when we try to throw ourselves into good causes to solve problems, it ends up in a formalistic overbureaucracy which will impose a great deal of cost on companies, but where the result in terms of greater equality and closing the gap between men's and women's wages is highly doubtful. and that is why it is tragic when the eu throws itself at matters that are best managed and safeguarded in the national states. at the same time, as a dane standing here, it is deeply worrying to see how the eu is moving more and more into the area of social rights in the field of employment, where we in denmark have a danish model that has proved far superior to what is wanted in this house. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information available to the public. but if you want to look at a country where there is great equality between the sexes, where there are high wages and where there are orderly conditions on the labour market, then you should probably look at denmark, where we do not regulate this kind of thing by law and bureaucracy, but rather by reasonable agreements. (the president agreed to reply to a blue card)
blue-card speech. – dear colleague, you’ve mentioned the fact that things should be applied at national level. i have opened the statistics looking at denmark: the pay gap in denmark is 12.7%. is that the way you would like things to happen in denmark? is that proof that you are bringing forward that the situation is perfect? if you are for – as i understand from your declaration – equal pay, for equal work, then why in denmark is the situation like that? this is exactly why we need a common action at the european level.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since we are discussing the rule of law, i would like to confirm that this is unfortunately not just a rumor. indeed, yesterday, the romanian senate voted an amendment that practically decriminalizes abuse of office, setting a threshold of 50,000 euros, that is, a luxury car or a provincial apartment. i hope this was a regrettable mistake and i ask those of my colleagues in the ruling coalition who are proposing incentives for corruption to stop shaming us. if they want a threshold, because that's what the constitutional court has decided, although the venice commission has said that it's not necessary, it has to be symbolic; one euro, not 50,000, not 2,000, not 5,000, because we're not in any competition about what amount is free from damage to people's pockets or from theft. please, commissioner, urgently address this issue to the romanian ministry of justice, because both the european commission, the parliament and the venice commission have repeatedly asked the romanian authorities to oppose any measures that lead to decriminalisation of corruption among dignitaries and officials, and when we seek support and credibility in brussels, for schengen or for other things, we must first not make fun of romania at home and do our job there.
in writing. disputes over the rule of law could be avoided if the commission examined member states and issues on an equal footing. unfortunately, it highlights some areas and silences others. in the list of fundamental rights, some minority groups are dealt with extensively, while national minorities are not dealt with at all. but many parliamentary questions, speeches, resolutions raise the issue of the violation and restriction of minority rights. the commission replies to our questions that the protection of minorities is a competence of the member states and does not intend to deal with it or to include it in the rule of law reports. in implementing eu law, the commission and the member states must respect fundamental rights and cultural and linguistic diversity. the treaties state that the eu is founded on the values of the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of minorities. national minorities are an essential part of the diversity of the union. the eu, if there is political will, can be the engine, the catalyst, for the protection of minorities. how can the commission be credible when it considers the rights of other minority groups to be more important, when it creates a strategy on them, when it creates eu law, when the same 'lack of competence' is available in practice? double standards are unacceptable in the administration of justice. european measures relating to the preservation of linguistic and cultural identity and the member states' minority policies are at least as important to societies as the situation of other minority groups. we expect the commission to show the same determination and initiative in dealing with the issue of national minorities.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs and the co-rapporteurs because i think this regulation on deforestation is an extremely important instrument. we cannot be demanding only within the european union, we must also be demanding with those who want to have access to the european market, and that is why i believe that this regulation is necessary to protect biodiversity and to protect the european consumer. we need more clarity in legislation so that we can both protect forests and illegal logging, discourage them anywhere in the world and, of course, give an extra chance to the economies of these countries, developing in a way that respects european law and the european market.
president, ladies and gentlemen, with this new legislation we are finally making heavy industry pay for its pollution and we are tightening up our climate targets. at the same time, we are ensuring fair competition with the rest of the world by introducing the carbon cap tax. i welcome this step forward for the climate, although the phasing out of these free emission allowances would have been a little faster for us greens. but on the social front, this package is far from sufficient. we can't afford to hit the most vulnerable families with a carbon tax on heating or transportation. yes, the social climate fund will be a step forward to help families out of mobility and energy poverty. but no, this is not enough compensation. i find it really incomprehensible that the member states have cut back on this fund during the negotiations. so it is really up to those member states to make that right. invest massively in real social climate policies, insulate social housing, invest in more and better public transport. climate policy and social justice must always go hand in hand. we need everyone on board if we're going to make the climate transition a success. let's make it work. that way the green deal really becomes a social deal.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the european parliament seems to think that the climate target is something fluffy and fine that does not affect people's everyday lives. it's easy when you live in a bubble that's not affected by inflation. the eu sells its climate laws as a way to save money, but in reality they create a huge burden on ordinary people. more and more working people are finding it difficult to manage their money and to make ends meet. it is the poorest people who suffer the most when eu policies make everyday products more expensive. if transportation becomes more expensive, then, of course, products become more expensive - everything from food to building materials, yes, everything. there are no trucks running on electricity today, so transport will also be affected by the eu's new carbon price. the eu's climate policy is not some magical nangijala. it has real consequences for ordinary people, and we need to remember that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 14 march we approved the negotiating mandate for the proposal for a directive on the energy efficiency of buildings. today another crucial dossier is under discussion: the commission has also proposed a regulation establishing the social climate fund. we have always called for additional resources to support the most vulnerable groups affected by energy poverty, and this 65 billion is a timid step in the right direction. we believe that all the resources from other measures should be channelled into this fund, because there is a risk of a fragmented and confusing funding framework. energy efficiency, access to decent housing and mobility must not be a luxury for the few. the europe we want is ambitious in embracing the energy transition fully, but it must be more attentive to the weakest bands. no one should be left behind.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to bring to your attention two ideas today: ideas which i believe we have a duty to concern ourselves with every day. the first is based on the fundamental principle of the european union, which is the free movement of persons and goods. in the movement of goods, we saw that we had not done everything to the end, today polluting massively at the borders of countries that are not yet in schengen. and for the free movement of citizens, we would do well to ensure that costs do not prevent them from getting to work, shopping or essential places. therefore, green transport will also have to be more inclusive, more opportunity-generating. secondly, i would like to mention that in everything we do, in everything we discuss and establish together, let us never forget the most vulnerable among us, the households that can no longer live from one month to the next, although people work hard. we need to establish retraining and skills-building mechanisms for them to enable them to participate fully and successfully in the well-being of the new european economy. (the speaker refused to reply to a 'blue card' speech by eugen tomac)
the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. mr falca, i just wanted to ask you, why did you bring up the schengen issue? because it is a subject that really concerns us and deserves to be developed.
mr president, commissioner, some european citizens, including my fellow citizens in romania, are concerned about the reforms needed to combat climate change, and we need to understand these fears and make it clear that they will not be abandoned in this process so important for our health, so that our children, future generations, can enjoy nature and all its benefits. by 2026, repowereu will help households, small businesses and entrepreneurs to reduce their energy bill by €20 billion. right after that, from 2027, we'll have 86.7 billion euros in the climate transition fund, and especially for those who would hardly afford to renovate their house or change their car. these things will help romania not to fall behind in the rapid changes we are making, in leaving a clean and healthy planet for future generations and europe to remain at the forefront of the global fight against climate change.
mr president, commissioner, the canary islands, as an outermost region, have always shown their commitment to combating climate change. but when it comes to connectivity, the great dependence of the outermost regions on air and sea links is unmatched by any other territory. we are playing a big game in this legislative package because we have no alternative to our mobility, to the supply of goods or to the arrival of tourists. we live off it and we want to continue to live off it. we clearly need a differentiated regime that is fully compatible with our economic model. it is true that we have been given more flexibility and more time to adapt, but this is clearly not enough. we call for a total exemption beyond 2030 from the cost of emission allowances generated by sea and air transport, both within and outside spanish territory. we need to keep tourists coming to our islands and not be unfairly burdened. we are in time to extend the scope of the exceptions to the outermost regions. the legal basis is article 349 of the treaty. the lack of political will and the absence of solidarity must not jeopardize the immediate future of these regions, which are as far away as they are from the rest of europe.
respected ! the ready at 55 package is an ambitious part of the green deal. it's about energy and the issues we're dealing with today: the carbon credits, the cbam mechanism, the social fund. we want to help the climate, to get rid of greenhouse gases, on the one hand, and on the other hand to limit the access and the entry of co2 from other continents through products, while at the same time, through the social fund, helping those who will be most affected by this transition. energy prices have gone up since the war in ukraine. in slovenia, after 68 years, we are closing down the aluminium production. on the other hand, we have to think about the people who live in the hills and need vehicles, and the energy companies will be burdened with coupons. you also have to think about, i don't know, 16 million poles who have district heating. so we're taking an important step, but at the same time we have to be careful not to hurt those who are most vulnerable in these situations.
mr president, like everybody else, i very much welcome the fit for 55 package. it truly demonstrates the way in which the european institutions have listened to the voices of its citizens as expressed in the ballot box in the european parliament elections in 2019. the people wanted ambition, they wanted verifiable targets and they wanted accountability. and that has been delivered. while the primary purpose, of course, of the fit for 55 package is to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, it also reinforces european democracy by providing a clear link between the will of the people and transposing that into concrete legislation that we will vote on in the european parliament this week. i would also like to say that it is a concrete, practical application of the sustainable development goals. these are not just theoretical and conceptual frameworks. the sustainable development goals contain objectives and targets that can be achieved through our legislation. the social climate fund is a perfect example of this, as well as the carbon border adjustment mechanism.
mr. president, victory has many fathers, but defeat is an orphan. today, when we vote on this great climate package, we all say, how much we have done for the environment, how much we have done for the planet. but i would like to say the same thing when we go to our capitals, to our countries of origin. and let's not run away from responsibility, let's not blame the eu. i want to tell the truth. if we already had this package, if we already had renewable energy, we would have been much better off this winter, bills would have been much lower for people. i was responsible for cbam, the price we put on those outside the union who don't respect the environment. the romanians rightly say: it is not ok for us to respect certain environmental standards and for outsiders not to respect them. it's not ok for companies to move from us to china so they don't have to respect the environment, because it doesn't really matter there. fellas, it's important that we act together as leaders. leaders don't run from responsibility, leaders don't hide, and if we speak with one voice, then we give business a predictability and young people a planet.
in writing. in the fit for 55 legislative package, we want to ensure the eu's transition to climate neutrality, bringing benefits to both the environment and citizens. however, it is important to pay close attention to the economic impact of these actions on low-income citizens and micro-enterprises, in particular in relation to the increase in fossil fuel prices with the entry into force of the new ets2. in this regard, it is necessary to pay particular attention to the effective implementation of the climate action social mitigation fund, which aims to support the groups most affected by this system. the new fund should be an important pillar in addressing the problem of 34 million people currently facing energy poverty. it is essential to ensure the synergy of the fund with the other eu financial instruments to leave no one behind in the transition to climate neutrality.
the rapporteur. mr president, colleagues, i have to say that i am very pleased to see you here today. for the first time, the european parliament is preparing a comprehensive report on cooperation between the european union and the council of europe. it was certainly time for parliament to analyse and evaluate the very complex system of relations, and there are several reasons for this, three of which i would like to highlight: on the one hand, the union regards the council of europe as a reference source for human rights in europe. just think of the many conventions to which the eu as a whole or through its member states is party. on the other hand, the european union is the council of europe's leading donor for programmes related to enlargement, the eastern partnership and the rule of law. the financial assistance has been steadily increasing and exceeded eur 200 million in 2021. thirdly, the timing of the report is made all the more important by the fact that the first council of europe summit in nearly two decades is just a month away. this report is a long-awaited response to the council of europe. the parliamentary assembly, the committee of ministers and the general secretariat also welcomed the inclusion of the report on the agenda. i have met extensively with the council of europe's bodies and leaders in recent months, and i thank them for their openness and partnership. the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe has on several occasions called for closer cooperation with the european parliament, for insight into each other's work, and for consultation on issues on both sides. the report therefore proposes the creation of an interparliamentary delegation between the ep and the ep's parliamentary assembly in the shared areas of activity. just as parliament has organised cooperation with distant groups of countries, it is high time that there was a more organised form of cooperation with the neighbouring parliamentary assembly of the council of europe. i would like to add in particular that the council of europe's plenary session will be held here in the coming months because of the reconstruction work. the report states that the institutional relationship between the european union and the council of europe should be more normalised, and that more high-level contacts are needed. the strategic partnership should be extended to give new impetus to democracy, the rule of law and the promotion and protection of human rights, including minority rights, through bilateral cooperation. in view of the changed global and european challenges and the significant transformation of both institutions, the report calls for a review of the 2007 memorandum of understanding. analyze which areas of cooperation have been successful and where the relationship needs to be strengthened, extended, how to transform it into the main legal instrument of interinstitutional cooperation. the protection of minorities, which is of paramount importance to the european parliament, is an area of cooperation which has not been sufficiently exploited. the council of europe has established a europe-wide legal framework through the framework convention on minorities and the charter of languages. these came into force 25 years ago, but unfortunately there are still eu member states that do not apply them. the european union's credibility in the accession process is strengthened by including the norms of the framework convention for the protection of national minorities in the monitoring of the rule of law and fundamental rights within the union. the report therefore recognises the role of the venice commission in the functioning of democratic institutions and respect for fundamental rights, the functioning of the judiciary, and the conduct of elections and referendums. i thank my fellow shadow rapporteurs for their support and valuable contributions. the report on european union-council of europe cooperation was adopted by the constitutional affairs committee by an overwhelming majority. i hope that tomorrow's plenary vote will confirm the report on the council of europe, a unique and very important partnership.
mr president, the european commission and ursula von der leyen, with the help of different political groups from the european parliament, like epp and renew, is currently proposing different packs of legislation that will free people of their fundamental rights and freedom in exchange for a utopian society where people will have nothing, but will be happy. for example, the new digital laws that are being promoted in the eu will deprive people of their privacy. the european central bank and the european commission are proposing a digital euro to replace cash. the exchange of this digital euro will be done using applications approved by the governments, which means mass control on how, when and what people could use this digital currency for. clearly, the european union is transitioning from an area of freedom to a supranational government that wants full control over people, but does not want to be accountable for the people and to the people. if it does not stop copying the soviet union’s model, the european union will collapse under its own weight. if we want to save the european project, we must defend the fundamental rights of all by opposing any laws that establish a digital tyranny in the european union.
mr president, christ is risen! - we, the orthodox, greek catholic and non-protestant christians, greet you with the week of light - ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, after all the crises we have been through and are still going through in recent years, the european economy needs our support. i am talking about the european economy as a whole, but also about each region in particular, with its specificities. sure, we have the recovery and resilience fund for each country. we have the structural funds and the just transition fund. it is precisely this fairness that we, the european union, must ensure, and here i must say again that the romanian economy is suffering greatly because my country, although it meets all the criteria, is still not in the schengen area. if, in theory, goods move freely in the european union, in practice, romanian products and products manufactured in romania wait for hours and even days at the borders of europe. this injustice must stop and that is why romania must enter the schengen area this year.
mr president, i wish to join the romanian academics who have launched a great debate during these festive days. i don't know how many of you know, but the european countries with the orthodox majority yesterday and today are celebrating holy easter. it is very important to us, however, that the entire christian world celebrate this great feast on the same day. we celebrate christmas on the new gregorian calendar, and it is a pity that we remain different in regard to the celebration of easter. because there is a great debate in romania at the moment, initiated by professor adrian papahagi, i think it is important that i, as a mep, convey this message of support and encouragement for this important step. all christians should be on the same feast day.
mr president, what a failure, what a humiliation for emmanuel macron, who has managed the feat of getting nothing from beijing and, at the same time, to upset our closest allies. by going to china to speak on behalf of europe, without a mandate from the council, by talking too much, as usual, by asserting positions contrary to those of many of our friends and allies, emmanuel macron has once again humiliated france and weakened the european will. it is all the more shameful that there was no political courage. he went to tell the chinese exactly what they wanted to hear. macron pretended not to be the follower of washington: he finally showed himself submissive to beijing. and yet, if europeans have a common interest in china, it is to treat it as what it is: a trading partner, yes, but not always loyal - far from it - and above all a systemic rival, in respect of which we must of course limit our dependence. china and the united states are protecting their interests. we also have french and european citizens in this part of the world. it is time to stop being naive and weak in the face of those who abuse it, so happy and benefiting from our docility.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. a coherent eu strategy in our relations with china - yes, we need it, and that is why we must speak with one voice. president von der leyen has outlined a tougher line to take against a more aggressive china. i think that's the way to go. and we must take this path together with those who share our values. but the performance of emmanuel macron is counterproductive. if the intention was to play good cop, bad cop with the chinese, then this honey-ums-mouth strategy à la sauce macaroni has gone completely to hell. i am also with mrs von der leyen and manfred weber on the taiwan question, not with mr macron. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. if we're serious about reducing risk in our supply chains, we need to rely on partners we can trust. this includes the ratification of the mercosur agreement, and this during this parliamentary term. the economic situation in argentina does not allow us to wait, unless we want to give the chinese the upper hand once again. and i am glad to hear that mr lamberts seems to have recognised this, because that is the only way we will achieve the sustainable change we want. and only in this way can we promote the necessary european sovereignty properly.
mr president, the key question today is, what is our common position on china? we witnessed weekly visits of member states’ and institutional leaders to china, but we certainly lack coherence. our relations with china should not become another issue that creates internal divisions. one does not prove strategic autonomy by being autonomous from other member states, and institution leaders should think twice before providing eu cover for individual visits. our relations with china also reflect our global ambitions. we have some strategies and global gateway, but we are lagging in practice. we are the number one world donor, but china is the number one trading partner for 120 countries worldwide. moreover, in the last 20 years, more than 40 countries reverted to semi-autocratic or autocratic regimes. therefore the european union cannot simply walk away from traditional alliances that define the future of democracy. and only a united europe is a strong europe.
mr president, dear colleagues, i think we all agree that we want a stronger, more powerful union. it is in the interests of our member states, our citizens, and in the interest of our strategic partners. this debate should therefore not be about choosing sides. our partnerships are clear; they cannot be unfollowed. now competitors and rivals are also well known and we have a strategy on how to deal with them. so let’s focus less on semantics and more on actions needed to improve our capabilities and develop coherent foreign policy tools. playing with the 50 shades of strategic autonomy and then wasting time elucidating their significance is not only weakening our global position, but it is strengthening our rivals. china wants nothing more than to see us divided. our priorities should be clear: the taiwan strait and the indo-pacific must remain free and open. china must respect international rules from trade to technology, all the way to the right of ukraine to its sovereignty and integrity under the un charter. so let’s focus on delivering that.
the energy challenge for europe continues, after the success last year of the first regulation on winter storage, as president buzek said. now we have to move on. we must ensure safe supplies, distribution and optimal use. we need to diversify our sources, switch to renewables, switch to hydrogen. so overall we need to focus on a greater integration of all sources and we need to ensure optimal and effective use. flexibility will be necessary and indispensable for all this, but to ensure adequate flexibility, i believe that the storage point is another central point. so it is good that the commission has addressed this with a recommendation, but i - as mr casares has said, i believe - expect something more from the commission, namely that i think that a common regulatory framework is necessary and useful above all, and that therefore common measures, including through legislative action, should be put on the table, aimed at solidarity between the states, as we did with the first regulation, aimed for example at purchases, as you are doing, in short, at a framework that goes in the direction of what we continue to dream of and hope to achieve, which is the energy union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, yes, we need better energy storage, and i welcome all the innovations in this area, from hydrogen to pumped hydroelectricity. but how realistic are the estimates in this plan? for example, it estimates a long-term decline in electricity consumption after 2030, and at the same time all cars should be electrified. it doesn't make sense. or another example: up until ten years ago in croatia, we had a lot of european projects to switch all the city buses to gas, which was advertised as the most environmentally friendly fuel. and today it's like gas is no longer counted at all! has anyone been held accountable for miscalculations so far? and unrealistic estimates have led europe to an energy shortage, to an energy crisis in which, again, because of the energy shortage, the dirtiest sources of energy have been opened up. so let's be realistic and respect the hierarchy of goals. our first common goal is to ensure that we have enough energy, and our second common goal is to ensure that we have as clean energy as possible.
i have to say, madam president, the european energy planning has proved to be a disaster with fatal consequences for the average european, the average dane. the green forces in this parliament have spent all their energy fighting against efficient green energy such as nuclear power. yes, we have seen this week that germany closed its last nuclear reactors under green pressure. it has created a much greater dependence on russian gas, russian oil. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. if we really want the green transition to benefit future generations, our children, our grandchildren, then technology is the way forward. denmark is a leader in wind energy. but the fact is that all the wind energy that we're planning in the north sea is not going to be much help without efficient energy storage, without power-to-x technologies, without all the things that we lack today. so the solution to the green crisis is not left-wing fantasies of going back to living standards, of becoming more dependent on despots and dictators. no, the solution is what has always saved the western world: new innovation, new technology and more research.
a uachtaráin, commissioner kadri, energy is the lifeblood of any economy, and building a more sustainable and resilient energy system is imperative for the future of every member state, especially in light of recent geopolitical developments. renewables do not produce power constantly and amid increased electricity demands, energy storage becomes critical as it enables us to store renewable energy when it is abundant and use it when it is needed. however, the eu has only a limited amount of storage capacity, with the majority of energy being stored in the form of pumped hydro, which has significant geographical limitations. we must ensure that eu policies create a market environment to support a rapid, large-scale deployment of storage projects and other flexibility technologies. ireland is a leader in deploying renewable technologies, such as battery storage and grid flexibility enhancement systems. but there are many challenges and barriers to effective operation of storage facilities. as the technology advances, it will bring greater battery performance and therefore it is important that any market reforms recognise the value of energy storage, meaning greater certainty for investors. the electricity system is becoming more decentralised and digitalised. we will see significant transformation in the system over the next decades. these changes will have consequences for the optimum electricity market design. this reality, therefore, demands that we match the market framework with the expected future grid complexion.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there are twenty interested colleagues in the chamber. there can be no energy independence and security without a reliable source of energy. it is quite obvious that the wind does not blow constantly, and the sun at night sometimes sets, colleagues, so they can not work 24 hours solar batteries made in china. also, the wind is volatile, as i told you, and you can't rely on it to produce energy continuously. such energy can produce power that is reliable and predictable. that's the power of nuclear power. the same energy that we, colleagues in this room, systematically, consistently destroy, destroy, driven by some green utopia of their own or motivated by the manufacturers of solar cells, wind turbines and other such devices. as long as there is such a policy, as long as there is such schizophrenia, here in this room and in the european commission, the european union and its member states will be dependent on external media and external sources, and we here will continue to scratch our tongues, forgive me for the translators.
madam president, in the current context, we are still working on making the union less dependent on russian oil and gas and reaching our climate goals, our green deal agenda. we have already put measures in place, like repowereu, but we need measures in the long term as well. that is why we in the itre committee and the european parliament outlined the need for a new waste energy storage strategy back in 2022. therefore, i welcome the commission recommendations on how to exploit the potential of energy storage and the commission’s proposal to review the electricity market design, which recognises also the crucial role of energy storage in enabling the deployment of renewable energy. the itre committee is very committed to working towards facilitating renewable energy deployment and i am very proud of my colleagues that just agreed an agreement on renewable energy deployment just a couple of weeks ago. asking member states to consider storage options when planning their infrastructure is, in my opinion, a very unambitious approach. the ten-e regulation also needs to be revised with regard to the eligibility criteria. also, we clearly need all sources of flexibility, including grid reinforcements, demand—side response, grid—scale batteries and pump storage hydropower. finally, the storage potential of hydrogen is particularly beneficial for power grids as it allows for renewable energy to be kept not only in large quantities, but also for long periods of time.
madam president, commissioner, predictability and flexibility are the key concepts for energy to continue to evolve towards decarbonisation, security of supply, efficiency, the fight against energy poverty and technological innovation. storage is key to the decarbonisation of the european union's energy system. the reform of the energy market must reflect this. the commission's basic proposal, now under interinstitutional negotiation, takes important steps to facilitate and encourage investment in dynamic energy storage processes and in particular renewable energy. in the negotiation, the role of smart grids, interconnections, joint purchasing and other mechanisms that ensure transparency and flexibility in systems and markets must be further developed. these options, which are in line with the commission's recommendations, should also be reflected in the national energy and climate plans, which now more than ever must not only be national optimisation plans to meet european targets, but also act as catalysts for public debate and the participatory transformation of the european energy system and also of the energy systems of each member state.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is probably no greater priority at the moment at european union level than ensuring common and full energy independence from the russian federation. i would like to emphasize that this independence will either be common or it will not be at all. as long as some states, regardless of their reason and motives, whether they are large or small countries, choose to prolong their dependence and servitude to moscow, the european union as a whole will be severely affected. so it's obvious that we can't rely on the winter coming on the same temperatures as last winter. it was our luck, all of ours, but we can't dream of the same luck every winter. it is equally clear that we need to act responsibly, unselfishly and urgently. beyond commercial or technical aspects, my appeal is for seriousness and above all for joint action. otherwise, unfortunately, we will be lying to ourselves. moreover, until we achieve renewable energy at european level, we must maintain gas as a transition energy.
madam president, madam commissioner, dear colleagues, when we want to change the patterns, we need to be fully open to innovative ideas to encourage and support them. the european energy system proved to be vulnerable, even though you have done great job, commissioner, last winter. we are vulnerable to the fluctuation of the oil and gas market and not only to those. the sector has seen a lot of innovation in the past years, but it is not enough. we need innovation in the production of energy, but also in developing new and large storage capacities for the energy. we need massive investments and support, not only for the big companies but also for new actors. we need to open the system to make it possible to integrate brand new ideas and innovation in both production and storage to pass from a closed, very controlled market to welcoming new small micro-production and storage capacities. the european funds in this sector must be more flexible and way less bureaucratic, and we need to go over the national approach into a real european energy market. if we want green energy for everyone at affordable prices, we must dare to make big changes now.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, vice-president schinas and commissioner breton, €5.5 trillion: that's the cost of cybercrime in 2021. these are impressive numbers, but behind them are often attacks not by dogs but by hackers in the pay of russia, china, iran. autocracies that, through this new form of hybrid warfare, aim to undermine the security of our infrastructure, undermine our companies and destabilize our society. a threat against which the member states cannot defend themselves, because europe's security depends on the security of the weakest link in the chain. over the last few years, we've understood this, and that's why we've put together an important legislative framework, from the nis to the european cybersecurity act and now the cyber resilience act. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. the proposal for a cyber solidarity act is therefore welcome, and it seems to be moving in the desired direction, including the creation of a pan-european cyber shield. but there is one fundamental prerequisite without which europe cannot think of meeting this challenge, and that is skills. we must invest in training, especially among young people, to ensure that they are competent professionals who can meet the ever-increasing needs of companies and institutions. we can turn this threat into a great employment and entrepreneurial opportunity. the european skills academy is therefore a key element of our digital strategy and will need to be appropriately funded to meet the scale of the challenge. let me end with a warning, though. beware of thinking that only high-level skills are worth investing in. we also need to develop a culture of cyber security that is widespread among all sections of the population, involving schools, universities, local authorities, training institutions, so that each of us can equip ourselves with the necessary tools to defend ourselves against this hybrid war that some countries have declared to us.
madam president, i would like to thank the vice-president and the commissioner for presenting the cyber package proposals. as the package underlines, more efforts are needed to boost digitalisation in europe. digitalisation will ensure the competitiveness of our industries and help achieve our climate targets. at the same time, because of digitalisation, we are facing new kinds of challenges in our society. cybersecurity is and must be a crucial part of our overall security. it should be highlighted that the cybersecurity level in the eu is only as strong as it weakest link. we must ensure a high level of cybersecurity in all areas in our society, including our industry and smes. there is currently a number of regulatory initiatives being prepared and adopted that strengthen the overall security and cybersecurity of the eu, including the member states, eu institutions, critical infrastructure and also businesses. and this is a very positive development. but at the same time, if we had to choose one single area where we should invest more, it’s skills. and it was mentioned here, every third person who works in europe lack basic digital skills. and at the same time we have a lack of cybersecurity experts. so we have to improve digital skills on a general level in europe, but we also need more knowledge and expertise in the field of cybersecurity. so the cyber package presented by the commission today is very welcome as it speeds up both education for the digital field as well as the knowledge of cybersecurity, and also more investments and funding is needed for research and product development in the cybersecurity field.
madam president, commission, the presentation of these new proposals is a step in the right direction: enhanced solidarity between member states on cybersecurity and a common commitment to the new competences needed to ensure it. the european union is the largest integrated digital market in the democratic world and as such a sensitive target for cyber attacks affecting the whole of our society, from citizens to industries to strategic and military infrastructure. this is a phenomenon which is increasingly becoming a real hybrid war with the war in ukraine. to address this at the national level is a very important thing: the european response is needed today. prevention work is already well under way with the adoption of the nis2 directive on network security and the ongoing discussion on the regulation on the cybersecurity of products with digital elements, for which i am the rapporteur for the socialist and democratic group. now we can also become stronger in the area of threat detection and coordinated response to attacks. ladies and gentlemen, this is a shared responsibility in this new digital world where everyone's security is everyone's security.
madam president, cyber attacks have become an increasing threat to our societies and governments. in times of crisis, such as the russian invasion of ukraine, cyber attacks pose an even greater danger since they are used as political weapons against democracies. we must strengthen the resilience of our critical infrastructure against cyber threats, enhance cooperation between member states and ensure the protection of our citizens. europe is vulnerable unless we do so. but there is a critical aspect that we should never forget, and i’m calling on the commission and the council to be very alert and aware of it: keeping our democracies healthy along this process. member states should never use the umbrella of cyber security and national security for building excessive rules and political control. democracy should never be militarised. i am looking at romania’s recent cyber security and defence legislation, which gives extensive powers to intelligence services. we risk turning private service providers of technical solutions and other private stakeholders into informants of state authorities with excessive reporting obligations. and i am concerned about this interpretation. in democracies, we need civilian oversight and accountability of the intelligence services. cyber security means also respect for privacy, fundamental rights and the rule of law, protecting personal data, properly fighting organised crime and toxic foreign interference. resilient societies are about that, and i would like to thank you, commissioners, for your work and for mentioning the value-driven approach to this package. i hope that with this package we will all continue to build safe and healthy democracies. this is what europe needs.
madam president, dear commissioners, dear colleagues, this debate about the cyber package is another example of how important issues are hijacked by the european commission and used to propose initiatives that are taking away more and more decisions from the national states and rights from the people under the alleged argument that it is done for their safety and security. protecting our cybersecurity infrastructures is an important objective that the states must fulfil, not the european bureaucracy, which is not accountable to anybody. the european union cannot micromanage everything or come up with one-size-fits-all regulations because it will actually undermine, in this case, both the cybersecurity and the competitiveness of the european single market. all these proposals are actually building the framework to create in the eu a digital tyranny and the implementation of a social credit system similar to the one in china. i am asking the commissioners, how exactly are you going to be able to protect all the cell phones or computers in the eu without monitoring all of them? protecting our cyberinfrastructure is very important, but we need to make sure that we are not transforming the european union into a china-like controlled superstate, but still keep it as an area of freedom as it was intended.
member of the commission. madam president, of course we make a difference. just before i stress one point: it is clear that we need to make more efforts in the area of communication. today, there is no shortage of activities, no shortage of youth organisations, no shortage of young people who are engaged or interested. we also need to make a little more effort to communicate. as for the link between the european year of youth and the european year of skills, of course, of course young people will be there, and not just with certain groups - and i am speaking in particular to the neet group (not working, not studying or training). i think that the young people have a very important role to play here. i will of course ensure that, after the launch of the european year of skills in may, the good practices and good initiatives we have seen continue. in fact, our youth has made that very clear to us. for the european year of youth, we have established new formats, the youth talks. we plan to have twelve new youth talks in 2023 so that young people can continue to participate and share. of course we're going to continue with our voice your vision platform. every young person has the opportunity to express himself in his mother tongue, to say what he thinks about these future jobs, about the future of europe. the young people are clearly telling us that they want all these formats, which were introduced for the first time during the european year of youth, to continue. as for a more structured dialogue, my team and i are thinking of making the youth stakeholders forum a permanent platform, a permanent dialogue so that young people can be included in all the issues that will ultimately affect them. it will be the one to implement the decisions taken.
member of the commission. madam president, of course i will answer within the framework of the portfolio for which i am responsible. firstly, it is the erasmus+ programme that allows participation, but i would also like to see more discussion on the barriers that still prevent access to these projects. of course, we have introduced some new schemes, such as those which enable us to help the less privileged and those who need it most. we have set up new partnerships, small scale partnerships, which allow new entrants to be able to apply more quickly, to be selected. what we need now is obviously to see how, over the years, with the new features of the new erasmus+ programme, we can make things even better. i would remind you that one of the main objectives of the erasmus+ programme is to be inclusive, and it is only natural that we pay attention to this. there are thousands of projects aimed at young migrants and refugees. perhaps what is missing is more visibility. that is why i think a lot about the european youth portal. that is why i am thinking a lot about the new portal we are doing on the european platform for education. it seems to me that we increasingly need to have a single entry point, a single entry point where all this information is available, at the fingertips of our young people. and that's what we're trying to do with our team.
member of the commission. here, it is the residence that counts, not the nationality. the erasmus+ programme will continue to be open to the international community. we have good examples. so yes, i confirm that they can participate in the erasmus+ programme.
member of the commission. thank you very much for your question. of course we will continue to want to support those young people who are not working or studying. and you remember that's why we set up the new alma program. now, what we need to continue to do is to promote this programme, because today, in april 2023, there are sixteen member states that have included the implementation of alma in their national or regional programme through the european social fund. and this is a great opportunity. i think we will continue to work with the various member states to see what good practice is on the ground. i see that italy is among the 16 member states. here is an example of good practice. so it is through synergies between several programmes, the european regional development fund, education policy, the european social fund, that we will succeed in encompassing a youth that needs to be included through different initiatives and to feel engaged and supported. for me, it's something that's important. and, of course, here we work in teams with several commissioners. but beyond the alma programme, it goes without saying that we will continue to be interested in and support young people. i am also thinking of the youth guarantee, which has been updated. now, this is not my direct responsibility, but i will ensure that there are more synergies between the erasmus programme, the european solidarity corps, the european regional development fund, the european social fund and these programmes which are aimed at this type of young people. my message to them is clear: we're here to support you. we need you, so do not hesitate to look into the opportunities and possibilities offered by the european union, so that we can provide you with the appropriate help and support in due course.
madam president, please. the european youth year was a very good opportunity for the younger generation to get more attention and to make their voices heard. the other main objective is to improve the visibility and popularity of the european union among young europeans, and this is very right and very much needed. it is very important and we also agree that erasmus has been the most popular programme of the european union for 30 years, in which millions of hungarian students have participated, so it is very unfortunate that now such a discriminatory decision has been made that hungarian students, teachers will no longer participate in this programme after 2024. which is outrageous and sends a very bad message to hungarian students, teachers and universities. i really hope that we can resolve this as soon as possible and that mrs. gabriel can make this decision in a positive way.
member of the commission. i don't think i heard the question in the translation. i stopped at the point where you pointed out how the european year of youth has indeed enabled more young people to learn about the european union, but also to be heard. and this is something that we're already seeing in the early results of this survey that i talked about, which was done online with young people. there were over 1,300 responses. i could share some of the results right now. 66% of our young people feel that during the european year of youth they had the opportunity to make their voices heard. they identify several channels through which they have been heard: first, as always, the erasmus+ programme and then the european solidarity corps. but also keep communicating. 28% want better communication on these topics in social media. and our youth are very much emphasising the need to continue dialogues and debates with political leaders. as you know, there have been 26 dialogues with commissioners. our young people are clearly in favour of this. similarly, parliament organised an event which was very, very successful. now, what i would like to stress is that 70% said that the european youth year had a positive influence on their knowledge or their view of the european union's action. but again, we face some challenges. the question is how to go beyond those who were able to participate and who said that the european year had a positive effect. for me, the challenge remains, as you have pointed out, to reach out and reach out to those who, throughout the european year of youth, would like to participate more and have ideas for further engagement. this is the challenge for me of the legacy of the european year of youth: not just to reach young people, but to be able to mobilise them in the long term.
thank you very much for mrs. gabriel's reply. i also wanted to say that the voice of all young people should reach the european commission, and my suggestion about erasmus was that i hope you will succeed in making a positive contribution to ensuring that hungarians are not excluded after 24.
member of the commission. am i to understand that you are referring to the council decision of 16 december?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the way in which the european year of youth is discussed here shows that it is not just one topic, but a very wide range of topics that young people are interested in, that young people want to be involved in and that are relevant to young people. i would therefore have liked to see not just the commissioner responsible for education, training, universities and research but a whole series of commissioners sitting here today. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that is why i ask you: to what extent is the issue or the issues raised by young people this year - i always call them the big five, i.e. the environment, the issue of training and further training, the issue of digitalisation, the issue of mental health, the issues such as unpaid traineeships or participation - to what extent are they really being pushed forward in the commission, in a regular exchange between the directorates-general? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. madam president, first of all i would like to reassure you that there has been a real team europe approach within the commission. there have been over 100 initiatives that the commission has deployed for the european year of youth. i referred to the budget of €140 million that was there to support the european year of youth. of course, this is not just the case with the erasmus+ programme and the european solidarity corps programme. it also comes from the social fund, the connecting europe facility, a whole host of programmes, including agricultural policy and maritime policy. now, what you have rightly pointed out is: how will the demands of young people made at the time of the european year of youth be taken into account in policy-making? as for mental health, i think i've made myself very clear. i think it is clear that the issue of mental health and youth must be an integral part of the commission's communication, which is scheduled for june. i am also glad that today, with the adoption of the digital skills in education package, we have shown that we are listening to our young people. it was very clear on connectivity, equipment, digital skills, how to approach content and security. today, with vice-presidents margrethe vestager and margaritis schinas, a package on digital skills was presented, following the council's recommendations. now i think that we must continue to work on the legacy of the year, to ensure that in all areas where it is relevant to do so and in all areas where young people do not just want to be heard but engaged throughout the decision-making process, we will ensure that this is reflected, and that is what i think will be the purpose of the communication that we want to present by the end of this year on the follow-up to the european year of youth.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the situation in european cooperation, especially in voluntary youth work, is deteriorating. the european year of youth has not changed this either. covid has basically brought structures down and it's going to take a lot of extra effort to rebuild them. we are also experiencing cost explosions in this area, and this is ultimately making measures in youth aid, especially for those who need them most urgently, almost unaffordable. the lack of skilled workers is also evident in the voluntary sector, but above all in the professional sector. volunteering needs professional support, and this is exacerbating the gaps in youth work and the structure of youth support throughout europe. i think that inaction would be a sign of poverty, especially after the european year of youth, which was a little bit unsuccessful. i therefore ask the commission: what is the commission planning to do to counter these really dangerous developments, particularly in the field of european youth work?
member of the commission. mrs kammerevert, i admit that i need to have more exchanges and more ideas. i can of course mention here the instruments we have at our disposal to deal with these issues: the youth strategy, the dialogues, the various forums. but listening to you today, i feel that we need to approach this topic differently. that is why, once again, i am relying heavily on the legacy of the european year of youth to identify the organisations and young people with whom we will work on these issues, even if outside the usual circles. and that's what i'd like to do more of. i would also like to hear a little more about the role that the european youth coordinator can play. we never talk about it. we now have a european youth coordinator and i would like to commend biliana sirakova for her dynamism and activity. those who wish to make new demands, those who wish to draw attention to new organisations, to topics that young people want to address, are also given the opportunity to make a call. it will then enable us to ensure that coordination so that we can deal with matters which have not been dealt with so far. i would like to say again that i think we must not only make sure that we use our existing structures, but also think about how, on the basis of the experience of the european youth year, we can do something new, innovate, in order to be able to tackle the issues you raise, because i have no more concrete elements to share today. these questions require answers.
member of the commission. i think this is indeed a question worth addressing. of course we want young people to be included. but today we have only a few shares. i think that together with my team, we're going to think about how to better include them. as for the overseas territories, i see them more easily included in subject-specific initiatives. we have, for example, created a network of young ambassadors on ocean health for research in the different fields. i think these are also initiatives that would allow them to participate, including on topics that are interesting to them. this does not prevent further reflection on their participation in erasmus+. but i admit i need more information on how we can improve things.
member of the commission. as i said, we are now analyzing all the data that comes in, but we already have some. first, we had 13 000 activities on the different activities portal. we now know that 150 million citizens have been reached by the activities linked to the european year of youth. it is very encouraging that the first responses we receive clearly tell us that a large proportion of the young people who participated in activities did so because it was the european year of youth. they were able to learn things because it was the european year of youth. now, what's important for us is to be able to do a full analysis. once again, i insist, by may we will have all the data and all the analyses, with the polls, with the various reports. and then, of course, we will link it to the european year of skills and the legacy that this year is supposed to have. as for youth participation, perhaps here is a more factual news you know that in the new erasmus+ programme, youth participation was one of the novelties: during the european year, the budget was €370 million. in 2023, the budget will be €412 million. this also reflects the desire to have even more projects and to involve even more young people. but again, i assure you, when the time comes, we will share with you all of this data, and what we have at this time. once again, we are talking about thousands of projects, thousands of young people who have been able to participate and who ask to continue to participate, and this is because there was a european year of youth.
mr president, commissioner, one of the objectives of this european year of youth was the creation of inclusive societies. in some european countries, three out of every ten homeless people are young. young people are also those most affected by access to housing and those who have the most difficulty in obtaining housing, either through the rental market or in accessing purchase and housing credit. within the social pillar of the european pillar of social rights, principle 19 also establishes the principle of access to housing. how does the european commission intend to strengthen access to housing for young people within the framework of this principle and thus reinforce what should also be the legacy of the european youth year when we talk about more inclusive societies?
member of the commission. thank you very much for your question. access to housing is not my responsibility. what i can say is that if this issue is discussed, debated and a decision is reached at the level of the european commission, then of course through the policies for which i am responsible we will be there to support it. i would also like to make it very clear that when we talk about the european year of youth, we must not lose sight of the role of the national coordinators. throughout the year in our member states, the national coordinators were there to implement the various activities. and that is why i would like to draw attention to the importance of the reports that the national coordinators must send. they're having their last meeting in may. this is where we have to be careful to identify good practices, what has worked, what has not, how we have been able to reach groups of young people who were not included until now, how we can do more. on the subject of inclusion, i would also like to share with you here that i have already met with the national agencies of the erasmus+ programme. and it is also the national agencies that can develop inclusion strategies aimed at enabling those who have not yet participated in the programme or who are facing obstacles to do so to be included. it's a question that's important to me, too. as far as erasmus+ and the skills in my portfolio are concerned, we will do everything we can to support these young people.
mr president, i would like to compliment our wonderful commissioner, mariya gabriel, on her work for the european year of youth and for facilitating this discussion on its legacy and lessons learned. indeed, i think it is something that every commissioner should do once every five years. there is no doubt about it: young people have been greatly impacted by covid and also are going to be affected most by the crisis in climate. and they deserve credit for helping through their protests and marches – greta thunberg, etc. – to create the ‘fit for 55’ and net zero. but one big area which is a problem is the whole area of skills. and i would ask commissioner gabriel whether she will utilise next year’s year of skills to ensure that young people are encouraged to take up the skills that are necessary to meet our obligations in renewable energy, the energy performance of buildings, etc. through more vocational and educational training?
member of the commission. thank you very much mr kelly for your question. i fully agree that not only during the european year of skills, but from the very beginning of this commission's mandate, we have been making sure that young people have these skills, from basic skills to advanced skills. as for the core skills, i would like to remind you once again that we now have a new initiative called pathways to school success. we all know that today there is almost a quarter of our young people who do not yet have basic skills in math, reading, and we really need to continue to make efforts here with all the member states. the initiative is now in the hands of the member states. we will support them and that is not the only recommendation. in the framework of the european education area, in the framework of the digital education action plan, we are ensuring that our young people have better results. but what we've discovered with the covid crisis is that we can no longer just worry about formal education, but also informal and non-formal education. this is already done and we can no longer think of skills only in terms of content and education in the traditional sense. we need to talk about the welfare of our schools, we need to talk about mental health, we need to talk about teaching, and that also goes through teacher training. all these issues have been addressed. now what i have left and what i would like is for the member states to make good use of the unprecedented budget they have for these subjects. i would remind you that this is the first time that so much money will be available in our member states, through the stimulus plans, through the unprecedented budget of the erasmus+ programme, to tackle these issues. i think we have everything under control now, the question is to speed up and to achieve a critical mass of good practice that will enable the union to be a little more successful in this area.
mr president, commissioner, the european year of youth ends in exactly three weeks and i could repeat the same question i asked this house a few months ago: how many young people have heard of it? as an observer in this parliament who has been involved in the development of the european year of youth, i have seen the interest that this european year has aroused in many youth organizations, but the impact has been very limited and i believe that we are in time to improve it, to improve it in order to leave a good legacy to young people. i would like to ask you two questions. firstly, we are living in a very sensitive time with regard to the housing situation. i asked you earlier about the problem some erasmus students had in finding accommodation in their destinations and i would like to know whether the commission has any plans to ensure that young people in general, and especially those on an erasmus stay, have access to quality and affordable housing. and secondly, what are you going to do to improve the working conditions of our young people, apart from ensuring that unpaid traineeships are banned?
member of the commission. both questions. how many young people for the first one? of course, we do not have the most accurate figures. what i was saying again, we have the number of activities: 13,000. we have 150 million citizens who have been affected. according to social media, we're up to 200 million. of course i wish we didn't have to stop there. what is important is that as many people as possible know about the opportunities that the european union offers young people. while the european year of youth was a stepping stone for some, we must not lose sight of those who were not able to know it. and that is why i emphasize the important role of the national coordinators, who must have a very precise view of everything that has happened in their territory, from the rural and the most remote areas to the capital. and that is why it is very important to continue working with them and to have the good practices, the good formats, the ones that the young people have told us that work today, so that we have included them during the european year of skills. but we also need better communication, something that changes, so that we can reach those who are not aware of these initiatives. i have already answered you about access to housing: this is not a matter for me. once again, i fully support any initiative in this direction that respects the powers of the commission.
member of the commission. mr president, i believe that some member states already have good practices regarding participation and lowering the age limit. i cannot now intervene in the area of member states' competence. what i would like the member states to hear is that we need our young people not to tell them that what we decide is good for them, but to co-create, to implement together with them these decisions, to make sure that they are there, and to make them aware that their ideas will be taken into account, but also when there are elements to be taken into account, situations to be reconsidered better. i think that is the message to young people: let's not focus on one issue, which will not solve everything. the age of participation will not solve everything. we must continue to debate this and we must always look at what best practices can be offered to young people, taking into account the diversity of the member states. but it is clear that today's young people do not just want to be heard and listened to, they want to be involved in the implementation of a decision. and i think that is what the european year of youth has done the most. even before the european year of youth, our young people were already being heard. now it is clear to us that it needs not only debates and conferences to express itself on a subject, but also needs to be there when solutions are shaped, modified and ready to be implemented.
mr president, commissioner, one of the objectives of the european youth year 2022 was to highlight the role of young people for the future of the european union and to help them overcome the negative impact of the covid-19 pandemic. during the pandemic, many young people have been socially isolated, losing educational and career opportunities. many have developed anxiety about the future. all of this, compounded by significantly longer periods of time spent on social networks, has resulted in a deterioration in their mental health. today, too, research shows us that we are experiencing a mental health crisis among young people, with far too many suffering from feelings of depression or anxiety. i would therefore like to ask you how the commission intends to continue the legacy of the european youth year in promoting and protecting the mental health of young people. does the commission plan to take further action to protect young people from the negative effects of social networks?
member of the commission. thank you very much for your question. i have already answered this question, but i can confirm that the mental health of young people is obviously a priority for us. as i said before, this will also be an integral part of the commission's communication in 2023. of course i will also ensure that the work of the expert group on school wellbeing guidelines is there to take these mental health issues into account. similarly, here, anything related to the negative effects of social networks will be the focus of these guidelines. maybe it was just a suggestion. we are not just talking about the role of education or programmes like erasmus+ in mental health. i think parliament itself is leading the way. we have innovated because it is thanks to the european parliament that we have organised a conference on mental health and the cultural and creative sector with the chair of the committee on culture and education, sabine verheyen. these are avenues to explore. more and more, we need to build synergies. all aspects of mental health in and outside school could also be explored in new ways to see how, through other initiatives, such as in the cultural field, we can better address these concerns than through traditional channels. and i think that the communication -- at any rate, i'll be there to make sure that -- will highlight the positive role of the cultural and creative sectors in mental health. it is clear that today there are projects, there is data, but we do not have a real european approach and it is high time to emphasise this positive role of culture for mental health.
mr president, commissioner mariya gabriel, thank you very much for your presence and for your replies. the european year of youth was highly anticipated by all young people on this continent and was an initiative whereby we wanted to listen to the voice of young people and involve them in decision-making at european level. but we have to ask ourselves, have we lived up to their expectations? if we look in many member states, we see that the efforts have come largely from civil society, from youth organisations, from youth workers. they've basically filled the map at the european level with events, activities, discussions. the european year of youth is their achievement and their efforts should be appreciated, but when it came to negotiating the recovery and resilience mechanism and i was rapporteur on this file together with other colleagues, we had a pillar dedicated to the new generation. unfortunately, very few governments have used those resources to partner with civil society. what can we do? what commitment can you make to make these partnerships stronger, more solid and to really build together with young people in the future?
mr president, madam commissioner. as we reflect on the legacy of the european year of youth, clearly one of the most pressing issues was the lack of proper funding which affected the quality and scope of the events organised. romania received a very small amount from erasmus+ for youth projects and the payment was made only in november 2022. this definitely did not mean good planning, sufficient funding and effective events. you spoke about future planning and that several of your colleagues will be involved in this effort. so how can the commission ensure that future initiatives are more closely aligned with the stated objectives and that resources are focused on activities that will have a significant impact? you also mentioned inclusion and diversity. what measures will be taken to ensure that policies and programmes are tailored to meet the needs of all young people, including those from diverse ethnic, cultural, linguistic and socioeconomic backgrounds?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. i take note of everything you say in your contributions to this debate, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if it can be called a debate, it is a series of speeches without any possibility of interaction between you, but i cannot answer all of them. i will reply to mr hermann tertsch, so that it is recorded in the minutes, to say that i criticised the position of the president of brazil, mr lula, this morning and explained that it does not seem to me appropriate to put the aggressor and the aggressed on an equal footing and to divide the responsibilities equally between mr putin and mr zelenskiy when judging what is happening in ukraine. but that is one thing, and another thing is the disqualifications that mr hermann tertsch has thrown at president lula, who is not an agent of russian imperialism nor is he in league with beijing or moscow. i think what you have said is completely out of place, mr tertsch, and i want my rejection of your words to be recorded in the minutes. it is one thing to disagree with the view expressed by president lula in beijing on the causes and reasons for the war in ukraine, and it is quite another to dismiss in a completely disproportionate and disproportionate manner a person who is, after all, a widely recognized figure in brazilian politics who has just been re-elected. so, you deserve a little more respect. i understand the criticism that is made when it is said that, certainly - and i have said this to the peruvian minister directly and personally - there has been an abuse of force at various times and that there have been people who have paid for it with their lives or with disability or mutilation. no, you can't say we didn't convict him. of course we condemned it, of course, but apart from publicly stating it, what more do you want us to do? we are doing what we would have done in any other circumstances: condemning what has been an abuse of force, rejecting violence, but of course calling for clarification of the circumstances that have led to such a thing and demanding accountability. that's all we got, your honours. what other powers do you think i have, but the instruments of diplomacy? we cannot even say that we have the capacity to influence it financially, because peru does not receive excessive or even significant amounts from our cooperation either. what we have done is act on the recommendations of the election expert mission that we deployed in 2021. we have deployed an electoral observation mission and we are supporting the implementation of its recommendations, we are supporting the social participation of young peruvians, but with amounts that seem to me so modest that i will not even dare to mention them, because in view of the magnitude of the problem, they are no more than drops of water in the ocean. we must remain ready to help peruvian society if we are asked to do so. we are not a colonial force. if we're asked to help, we will. we are prepared to do so by whatever means are at our disposal. but i cannot accept the criticism of those who say that because it is a neoliberal regime, we have not raised our voice. this kind of stereotyping, this kind of abusive simplification of reality, doesn't seem very welcome to me either.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the report (a9-0124 2023) by mr janusz lewandowski, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2023 budget, item iii commission (2022/2184 (bui)) (com (2022) 0124 - c4-0214/2014 - 2023)
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. the 2024 budget is the budget with which parliament will go to the european elections, so it must contain a response to the problems and fears of the people of europe. this is the second wartime budget, which also creates costly commitments, but is limited by the ceilings of the current financial perspective, which was agreed before the pandemic and before russia's aggression against ukraine. that means severe restrictions. the margins are small or nonexistent - one third of what is available this year - which also limits parliament's initiative in pilot projects and preparatory actions. we have inflation that's not offset by a two percent deflator, we have higher than expected costs to run the eu recovery instrument. finally, ukraine and moldova have candidate status, which means that they are eligible for pre-accession assistance in addition to macrofinancial assistance. there can be only one conclusion: we need a thorough revision of the mff. we expect the commission to present both the annual draft and the draft of this revision in june this year. without this, we will not be able to achieve the agreed priorities of the european parliament. we've managed to reconcile them. thank you very much, shadows, thank you to the secretariat, the advisors, everyone who was involved. it's a good negotiation before the council. now i'm going to quickly read these priorities in the language that they were agreed upon, which is english. a stronger economy and more resilient society through future-oriented investment investment in smes, research and innovation. towards energy independence as the foundation of security. next one: green and digital transitions and the strategic sovereignty of the eu. a secure europe for future generations. an effective response to global and geopolitical challenges. these are agreed priorities. i want to thank all of you again for your willingness to compromise. but there is one thing that divides us. there is, of course, the need to seal and protect the external borders of the european union. but how much of the budget is going to be spent on walls, fences and other physical infrastructure? it's not easy for my generation, who remember the berlin wall. but i get it. i would rather tear down than build new walls, but i understand the arguments of those countries that are under migration pressure. sometimes it's government-sponsored pressure from autocratic regimes. this is the situation on the polish-belarusian border. that is why i have presented a compromise which was taken from the conclusions of the european council in february this year. in the hope that if it was agreed by 27 countries, it would also have some support in the european parliament. i would very much like to see this one issue that divides us not dominate the budget procedure, that the entire budget be held hostage to this one issue that divides us. judging by the willingness to cooperate so far, i hope that doesn't happen.
member of the commission. – mr president, dear honourable members of the european parliament, dear rapporteur, firstly, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr lewandowski, one of my predecessors and the budget committee for the draft guidelines for the 2024 budget. the 2024 budget will be the fourth budget of the current mff. this will be the midway point of the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework in the budget to be negotiated and adopted in even more difficult economic and geopolitical circumstances than last year. we are more than a year into the unprovoked and unjustified russian war against ukraine. the russian military aggression in ukraine represents a massive challenge and its evolution is still impossible to predict. we will continue to react to constantly changing circumstances and support the suffering ukrainian people, while also providing support to the european citizens affected by this war of aggression. next year’s budget comes at a very challenging time for the union. high inflation and persistent uncertainty and risks mean that we all must remain vigilant and cautious. we must remain ready and flexible to react to the evolving situation in ukraine. we will also have to deal with the impact of rapidly rising interest rates and the funding costs for the borrowing of nextgenerationeu. we must also ensure adequate resources for existing priorities to continue work on long-term projects, notably the recovery from the pandemic and enabling the green and digital transitions. the member states should swiftly make use of the available funding both under nextgenerationeu but also under the mff to deliver on the ground. i can only assure you that the commission, in the draft budget 2024, will use limited resources in the most effective and efficient way. inflation remains very high and affects the overall salary-related expenditure and other indexed expenditure such as rent as well as energy bills. this happened already last year. it will continue this year and of course also in 2024. this has a major impact on heading 7, where resources are under heavy pressure. i would therefore urge all institutions to exercise restraint and don’t add more burdens to heading 7. i have noted that both institutions, in their guidelines, stressed the need to ensure an adequate level of payment appropriations. i can reassure you that the commission monitors the needs on a permanent basis and that an adequate level of payments will be proposed in the draft budget. certainly we will take into account the stage of the mff cycle and the implementation of programmes. let me now turn to our next steps in the first trilogue next week; we will discuss the calendar for the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2024. the commission aims to adopt the commission’s statement of estimates and to submit a proposal containing the full draft budget before the summer break. this year’s budget negotiations will inevitably be impacted by the upcoming discussion on the mff review. first, we will present the draft budget and shortly afterwards we will present the mid-term review. our three institutions succeeded over the past years to agree on many ground-breaking files that have changed the union’s budgetary and financial landscape, and with this spirit of cooperation, dialogue and availability to compromise, will again be in order to reach a timely agreement on next year’s budget.
the committee on foreign affairs has tabled an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. no country in the world has yet achieved gender equality. we see the increase in male violence against women, the increase in the number of girls being married off, and the elimination of women's access to safe and secure abortion. the effects of the pandemic have increased poverty, with girls and women being the most affected. at the same time, we see women in countries such as afghanistan, iran and russia being deprived of their most basic rights. the trend is backward and the backwardness of gender equality is a fact. it is now time for the eu to decide on the guidelines for a new budget, and i have a message for you all to take with you. the current world situation shows that we cannot reduce the funding that contributes to a more equal world. on the contrary, gender equality must permeate all policy areas and thus all budgetary areas. when member states and countries around the world restrict women's rights and the right to their own bodies, the eu needs to act. eu support for girls' sexual and reproductive health needs to be strengthened, not dismantled. the eu's work on gender equality needs to be strengthened and to be fully integrated into the budget in all areas.
rapporteur for the opinion, committee on employment and social affairs. mr president, commissioner hahn, ladies and gentlemen, the 2024 budget must build a stable europe, in which we can respond to people's concerns, aggravated by inflation and the fear of war at our border. the discussion of solutions cannot take place without additional investment in two strategic directions. firstly, we are in the european year of skills: improving employment opportunities. we don't just need to create jobs, it's essential that they be well paid. we are looking at upskilling and retraining human capital and quality jobs for young people. and all of this has to take into account the specific needs of the most vulnerable among us. second, reducing poverty, especially among children. it is urgent to ensure that every child in europe has free and real access to the most basic set of rights: healthcare, early care, education, healthy food and adequate housing. we must aim to increase the funding of the child guarantee by at least eur 20 billion by 2027. the 2024 budget must, first of all, take care of people, especially our children and young people.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if you are going to look back on that decade, we will learn that this year will be decisive for the future of europe in terms of competitiveness, in terms of transformation of our societies, in terms of technology, in terms of our ambition of the transformation of our societies towards the co2-free world. and we are going to see that we don’t understand a lesson we tell children in school. the lesson is no arms, no cookies. we have been negotiating the chips act tonight. the result was a shame for europe because we are investing on chips, but we take it away from other priorities like cybersecurity. we trade our future against our security. we have a net-zero act which is hardly financed. the americans have been spending 200 billion on the inflation reduction act in the recent months – we are not even talking about years. so we have to learn that this is a decisive time, and that is a time where we need to invest because that is the only way to trigger private investment.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. – mr president, commissioner, a little goes a long way, but it doesn’t make us a leader. so let me say what i said one year ago. as main rapporteur, i said without the mff revision, we cannot really move europe forward. now, a few specific points: in the field of transport, i think we can achieve a good deal of our green deal objectives by increasing the funding for the european railway agencies, because it is important, especially given the various train crashes recently and other problems that we’ve encountered in the sector. we also think dedicated funding for active mobility within the union regional funds and for active mobility industry within eu transport must be increased. and thirdly, we support funding into research of non-co2 effects of aviation with a view to reducing aromatic and sulphur content. now, on another type of mobility, which is very dear to my heart this year. erasmus has been rather unfair to our young people. and when i say that it is because of our efforts for last year, we have increased scholarships, for instance, in france from eur 600 to eur 674, but who can live with eur 674 when the value of money is eroded in such a way? well, i’ll tell you the answer. only those kids who have money from home can live with that kind of money. and therefore, erasmus right now differentiates between the haves and the have nots, between kids who have and kids who have not. and this we need to change, commissioner, especially if we want the young people to keep participating in the european project next year.
in writing. – crimes committed against children are abhorrent. stealing another nation’s children should not – under any circumstances – be tolerated in the 21st century. the icc arrest warrant against vladimir putin for unlawful deportation of children and unlawful transfer of population from occupied areas of ukraine to the russian federation offers a glimmer of hope that justice will be done. it should also send a clear message that giving orders to commit, committing or tolerating serious crimes against civilians may lead to a prison cell. exactly one year ago, i was in bucha and borodyanka and i saw for myself the magnitude of the destruction and suffering caused by putin’s senseless war. i heard the stories of those brave ukrainian people resisting the aggression, of how the russian forces kept shooting, how they didn’t spare maternity wards, pharmacies, elderly people with shopping bags in their hands coming out of the supermarket. countless other stories of civilian suffering emerge every day. we must continue fighting for accountability for every victim. we have the responsibility, as the european union, to contribute to and support the efforts to bring putin and all the authors of all the crimes committed in ukraine to justice.
madam president, luxembourg is one of the founding members of the european community. we have a special respect for you. it is an honour, mr prime minister, to have this exchange of views here in the european parliament. mr. prime minister, it's always good to listen when you talk about your newfound and embraced identity, and partly in this context you speak out against stigmatization. mr. prime minister, i ask you not to label judges with a different identity, a different belief, a different faith, a different political opinion. i respectfully ask the prime minister not to falsely declare the hungarian child protection law to be a homophobic law, because the hungarian child protection law is about one thing only: how to protect the inalienable right of parents to raise their children.
madam president, luxembourg is the most euro-optimistic state in the eu, and romania is now, after the unfair decision in december on the schengen expansion, the most euro-optimistic, after being in the top 5 most optimistic pro-european countries for 15 years. no one can anticipate but a growing state of anxiety in bucharest. the romanians have been hit hard by the eurosystem by not accepting them into the schengen area. this after being treated as second-class european people, with much lower subsidies for farmers. there are only two examples, but the list is long. i think there are some underground negotiations going on over the heads of eastern european citizens, ignoring their desire for dignity. in football, these are called boards. when will these scandalous negotiations end that ignore the aspirations of the romanians? who decides over their heads, on their behalf, that european schengen legislation should be ignored? if instead of romania it had been germany or france or holland or austria, would things have gone the same way? well, romania is not a second-rate country and is coping brilliantly with the geostrategic crisis triggered by putin. ukrainian refugees found help in romania, and that was before the union unlocked money for them. romania is the main support of the republic of moldova to resist moscow's blackmail. if we do not get out of the era of hypocrisy, if we do not face up to the real problems of european citizens, if we do not realise that russia is applying the divide and rule principle, it will cost us dearly and we will only be able to find that the european union is weakened first of all from within, by the indecision of some and the villainous decision of others. the representative institutions of the european union must treat citizens equally. i'm not doing it now. i hear talk of a common border policy and fences. what common policy are we talking about? there are fences right now inside the eu that romanian hauliers can only cross after long queues at the schengen borders. mr bettel said that the european union is strong only if it is united.
mr president, according to the united nations office on drugs and crime, the global volume of money laundering is estimated at between 2% and 5% of global gdp, of which about 10 billion may be laundered through cryptocurrencies every year. one of the main challenges in combating money laundering through crypto-asset transfers is the difficulty in tracing transactions. while traditional financial transactions are recorded and tracked, crypto operate on platforms that are often difficult to monitor. this makes it very hard for law enforcement agencies to identify and investigate suspicious transactions. europol hosted, in september 2022, the 6th global conference on criminal finances and cryptocurrencies and there are five major recommendations emerging from this conference. i would like to briefly refer to two of them. the first and very important one is breaking down silos between traditional and crypto organised crime and money laundering. these are two merging worlds. crypto-assets are more and more involved in traditional money laundering patterns and they need to be treated as such. the second one is to regulate broadly and make full use of existing laws. this is exactly why we have today the transfer of funds and mica regulations as well as the aml package, which is still under negotiation. because we do need a strong regulatory framework for anti-money laundering, for transfers and for crypto-assets to ensure the integrity of our financial systems and, last but not least, to save lives. and i would like to thank the commissioner and my colleagues for the excellent work and i’m looking forward to its implementation.
i have to say, madam president, the dieselgate has shaken europe and especially european consumers deeply in their confidence in the automobile industry. we have had a similar experience, as have the people of europe, with the catargating of our socialist friends in the house. the only clear case of corruption in the s&d group was that by the way also needs urgent clarification. it's a bit like the cloak of silence is being put on. on the other hand, dieselgate is a fraud on the consumer, on the consumer, who is always weaker than the industry. that is why these preliminary rulings, or this preliminary ruling procedure, are so important, namely to achieve a balance of power between a financially strong industry and consumers here in europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the emissions scandal has been a matter of great concern to us in germany too. i regret that the traditional german company vw has caused damage here and has lost confidence in the car industry. the eu has responded well and correctly. in all member states it is now mandatory to test vehicles in real driving conditions. this will help to close the significant gap between the co2 emissions measured on the test bench and those in road traffic. the test was also introduced for the measurement of nitrogen oxide emissions in practical driving conditions. this is the right decision and it is also the basis for the new euro 7 emission standard we are currently working on. these real driving emissions must be based on realistic everyday conditions and not on abusive test drives. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their opinions on the proposal. we can't have another dieselgate.
madam chairman, in 2015, experts called dieselgate a landmark case, and they were right. the cause has fueled distrust of diesel engines and started a huge push for the switch to electric cars. add to this the increased operating and vehicle operating costs, as each new diesel car has to be fuelled with adblue, the price of which is constantly rising. compared to last year, when it was 20 cents, it's 70 cents and up because it's made from natural gas. moreover, a new study shows that emissions manipulation is still a reality. three quarters of european diesel cars are likely to have a device installed that affects the emission test results and artificially lowers the emission values. that's a lot of vehicles. there are tens of millions of cars still in circulation. we clearly see this as a betrayal of consumer and public trust, and the authorities cannot continue to let car manufacturers get away with this. in many cases, car manufacturers in europe were neither punished nor held accountable in this case. similar things can happen with the introduction of the new euro 7 emissions standard under discussion and with electric cars, where the environmental impact is artificially reduced and ultimately only consumers pay for it.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, first i would like to thank you very much for this important debate, which citizens are certainly interested in. yes, the automotive industry is a key industry in the eu. we have to recognise this. many regions in many member states depend on this industry. more than 13 million jobs – direct and indirect – are at stake. so we have to ensure that this industry is developing on a blameless basis. and we all agree that dieselgate, obviously, was not an hour of glory for a certain number of car manufacturers. cheating is not an option and never should be, and cheating should be sanctioned. and in this case, it’s a question of clean air. it is also about consumers’ rights that have to be better protected. in the new deal for consumers adopted in 2018 by the commission, consumers should be assisted when they encounter problems – and here obviously there are problems, and this applies to the past as well as to the future. it remains an important issue now to continue to check vehicles for compliance with emission regulations and to take appropriate measures. the commission is doing its part to live up to its responsibility to ensure that in the future, cars circulating on european roads comply with the latest emission rules. and in that spirit, a swift adoption of the euro 7 proposal would also contribute to that aim.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you for your valuable and interesting contributions. i will be quite short. this debate has shown that there is a clear need to address the use of prohibited defeat devices at many levels, and that there is an important role for all of us to play. with regard to the defeat devices that were installed before the real driving emissions test procedure was implemented, we agreed that, with the underlying motivation to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions from these vehicles, we will further engage in legally sound corrective actions. again, thank you for the efforts by the european parliament and others. we have made a lot of progress for reducing the emissions from diesel vehicles, and now we are taking the next step towards entirely emission-free cars. in the meantime, we need to close loopholes in eu legislation. but thank you again for the debate and for your attention.
eight years after the outbreak of the dieselgate scandal, the international council on clean transport (icct) report has found that more than 40% of cars on the road in europe still have 'extreme' levels of nitrous oxide (nox) emissions. the report findings show a widespread presence of manipulation devices declared illegal by the ecj, estimated at 16 million vehicles. this is a matter of concern for the health of european citizens, especially in urban areas. more efforts are needed to ensure compliance with existing legislation and to ensure that vehicles on european roads are free from tampering devices. looking ahead, the commission's proposal to establish the new euro 7 standards, currently being discussed by both co-legislators, proposes introducing more comprehensive assessment methods. the transition to electric vehicles will also be a decisive step in reducing air pollution from cars and vans.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for inviting me to this important topic. the swedish presidency considers global health as a key priority and an essential pillar of the eu’s external action. health is a basis for sustainable development with important implications for the safety, stability and prosperity of all societies, including within the eu. we believe that the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health is a human right. today, the eu and its member states play a leading role for global health, both financially and politically. lessons from the covid-19 pandemic and other health emergencies point to the need for a renewed approach to global health. the ongoing discussions in the council on this topic are based on the commission’s communication on a new eu global health strategy ‘better health for all in a changing world’ to replace the previous strategy from 2010. to provide political and strategic direction from the council, the swedish presidency is working on conclusions on global health that we aim to adopt in may. while the new strategy stands in its own right, allow me to highlight three ways in which we believe the new strategy represents a renewed approach to global health. first, by building on a comprehensive understanding of global health in line with the world health organization’s triple billion targets: healthy societies, health systems and health security. second, through an increased focus on engaging all relevant sectors and available instruments to improve health. and third, through renewed and different partnerships, especially with regional partners. this also represents a shift from a focus mainly on saving lives and reducing the spread of diseases, to also promoting health and ensuring that people can remain healthy. to deliver on its objectives, the implementation of the strategy will require a team europe approach, bringing together national and international actors and partners, public and private, as well as civil society and academia, and so on. it will also require coordination across all relevant eu financial instruments and financial institutions to promote synergies with relevant eu frameworks, initiatives and policies. knowing about the longstanding and active engagement by the european parliament in the area of global health, i’m really looking forward to the discussion today, but thank you for the attention for now.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear members, thank you for the flexibility and thank you for adding this debate to the agenda today. as has already been said, the pandemic has made it very clear that health challenges do not stop at borders and concern us all. it has revealed structural health inequalities and underlined the importance of international coordination towards health security globally. on 30 november, we launched the new eu global health strategy to achieve real impact on the ground and strengthen our voice at the global level. we have listened to you and the strategy is a response to the calls made by this house. and with it, we put forward our vision to step up eu global leadership in health. we have also listened to other key players during an extensive consultation of member states, partner countries, civil society and global health initiatives. this effort is reflected in the positive welcome the strategy received, and i want to thank everyone for that. health is an essential pillar of eu policy and global health has become an essential pillar of eu external policy, reflecting the external dimension of the european health union and the key component of global gateway, which is all about partnerships – essential partnerships rooted in equity, in solidarity and in human rights. concrete examples of such partnership efforts include the regional team europe initiatives in health in africa and latin america, and the collaboration with global health stakeholders such as the global fund, gavi and the new pandemic fund. our global health strategy presented three key, interrelated priorities. the first is to tackle the root causes of ill health – whether they are economic, social or environmental – keep putting people always at the centre. the second is to strengthen global health with a ‘one health’ and ‘health in all policies’ approach in order to prevent diseases before they become health threats and pandemics. and the third is to strengthen health systems and advance universal health coverage. these will put us back on track to achieve the health-related sustainable development goals. global governance, health sovereignty and strategic autonomy are also important considerations in the strategy. we set out a vision for a new global health order. as a champion of multilateralism, the eu believes the who should be at the core of a strong and responsive multilateral system where the eu should finally have a seat at the table in the form of a formal observer status at who. such a new global health order should be based on stronger rules to deliver better health for all, such as the binding pandemic agreement currently under negotiation. to achieve our goals, it is crucial that we collectively boost our financing for global health. this should include financing at global, regional and bilateral levels. we encourage the use of innovative financial instruments and new ways of financing with an effective team europe approach. it also highlights the prospects of co-investment initiatives and domestic resource mobilisation. on the eu level, global health will be prioritised across relevant eu budget financing mechanisms, including ndici-global europe, eu4health and horizon europe programmes. the key to all this is a team europe approach, which i know is a central issue for this parliament. only together – and with one voice between the commission, parliament and member states – will we increase our impact on the ground and in international fora. we’re also working closely with the swedish presidency towards strong council conclusions to be adopted in two weeks, endorsing the ambitions of our strategy. only with political commitment coupled with concrete actions, monitoring and accountability mechanisms will we see a real change. we will keep listening. we will continue, of course, to engage. and by working together, we can make global health a reality.
for the group the left. madam president, commissioner, your strategy has set out as one of its objectives the adoption of measures to ensure fairer access to vaccines and medicines by strengthening local pharmaceutical systems and manufacturing capacity. that is a beautiful proclamation that appeared in the pharmaceutical strategy for europe three years ago. i ask you, what have you done as the european commission? the commission is not even able to deal with the production capacity and shortages of medicines within the european union for months. every citizen who walks into a pharmacy these days sees what's not there. another thing i would expect is that both the strategy and the individual actions of the european union will reflect the position of the european parliament that the experience of the covid-19 pandemic shows that poor countries cannot rely on donations of vaccines and medicines. they need access to the technology and the prescriptions so they can make vaccines and drugs themselves. my faction has been arguing for years that this requires a waiver from the trips agreement. we do not agree that the european strategy to export vaccines to poor countries has been successful. our future strategy for the world should be guided by the principle of global equity in healthcare, which requires a complete rethink of the legal framework for protecting intellectual property. it's the only way we can make a real difference.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in italian hospitals we are in a state of collapse, as in that of saronno, where a thousand citizens took to the streets last week. there is a shortage of medical personnel in the emergency rooms and intensive care units, where the line between life and death is often blurred and where the quality of care makes the difference between life and death. the limits imposed by the stability pact on the expenditure of health personnel have hindered new recruitment and adequate remuneration. to circumvent these limits, service contracts are drawn up, often masking employment relationships. we therefore find ourselves with doctors who are called "on the spot", with little knowledge of the health care system, who work grueling shifts and outside the maximum hours laid down by european regulations. we are not going to allow this to happen, but we are going to have to make sure that the european union is not going to be the one to do it. health and health care must be included in the competences shared between the union and the member states, recommendations are not enough.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the covid— 19 pandemic has exposed the fragility of our healthcare systems. there is no one health – there is not a european health if we don’t have a universal health. we have shown that borders are useless when we are facing a pandemic. solidarity should be our answer. antimicrobial resistance, amr, is a cross-border health threat that affects countries in pandemic proportions. as a response, we urge the eu to expand access to affordable antibiotics and ensure that they are balanced against misuse and overuse. we also advocate for specific operation funds to operationalise the one health priorities in low- and middle-income countries. lastly, we must strengthen health systems and increase universal health coverage to combat amr more holistically. it is crucial that eu investments in third countries go where they are needed and that they are sustainable in the long term, because by working together with global solidarity, we can transform healthcare systems, not only for ourselves, but also for countries that badly need it.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we can only agree that there should be a european union strategy on global health. we will see solidarity, fairness, respect for human rights. however, the european union has not set the example, particularly in the temporary withdrawal of patents on vaccines, treatments and diagnostics, which had been requested by more than 150 states. and what about the not-so-glorious management of covax? i have a question for you, commissioner. you say that the commission, in view of its strategy, must become a full member of the world health organization. but you had a veto from the member states. the member states do not want the commission to sit in the who. so how can you set up this global strategy if you do not have the agreement of the member states? should this be seen as a consequence of covid-19 management? the member states are asking you to limit yourself to technology transfer, finance and global diplomacy. so, that's really a question. (the president withdrew the floor)
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we want to make investment in health - for example, to find solutions to cancer or to treat rare diseases - a political priority. however, we see that this is not the case when we look at what the interests are and where the european union is allocating resources. there is a shortage of health professionals and a disincentive to innovation to the point that research is being moved beyond our borders. instead, it insists on a strategy which, under the pretext of health, seeks to undermine the sovereignty of member states and third countries with a 'new global health order' in a 'new global governance', which is concerned not only with health but also with the promotion of new values which degrade the human being and the ethics of medical practice, as is the case with the dramatic practice of abortion in so-called sexual and reproductive health. do the citizens of the european union know that it leaves us in the hands of world organizations which, moreover, were not elected by their votes?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, public health is, according to the european treaties, a matter for the states and not for the european union. unfortunately, an ambiguous article of the tfeu, article 168, still authorises the union to, i quote, 'complement national policies'. it is on the basis of this article that the commission is today proposing an eu strategy on global health. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. i thank the people who listen to me for the long exercise of self-celebration that is found there. the reality is more sinister. the commission has provided evidence of its inability to manage public health during the covid-19 pandemic: vain attempts to prevent health checks at national borders, the purchase of an ineffective medicine, remdesivir, for €1 billion, negotiating vaccine purchases in particularly opaque conditions. in the light of this experience, i condemn this new attempt by the commission to manage public health on a worldwide scale. let the states and the world health organization do it! as a frenchman, i do not want to put the commission in a position today where it will decide tomorrow, guided by the ultra-liberalism that inspires it, to dismantle our public hospital service.
president, the eu wants a global governance of the who with binding rules during a pandemic. this is a completely wrong strategy. the covid-19 pandemic has proven that a common flu was declared a life-threatening pandemic worldwide, that senseless measures such as mouth masks and curfews became universally mandatory, and that millions of people have died or suffered serious health damage from experimental vaccines. the covid-19 pandemic has revealed a huge conflict of interest. the driving forces behind this covid-19 hysteria and vaccines were the gavi alliance and the bill & melinda gates foundation. both organizations are the largest private donors to the who. bill gates has made almost half a billion usd through the covid-19 pandemic by investing in big pharma. eu boss ursula von der leyen, whose husband is the ceo of a pharmaceutical company, has bought 10 vaccines for every eu citizen in a shady billion-dollar deal. so the only correct conclusion is that member states should determine their own health strategy.
madam president, dear commissioner – i know the germans speak english very well – i would like to congratulate the commission for its efforts to put health on top of its agenda with this strategy and remind the council that citizens want more action from the eu on health, not less. i could not agree more with the objectives to build stronger global partnerships, to face new common challenges and to make universal health coverage the norm globally. however, i believe some consistency is needed here. we cannot truly advocate access to care for all globally without recognising that ip rights are the main obstacle to foster access to care globally. let’s not avoid the elephant in the room. let’s not discuss a trips waiver behind closed doors. also, we need to concretely demonstrate the importance we give to one health in europe so that our partners are interested in joining these efforts. let’s build a stronger case for global health by being coherent in our efforts.
madam president, dear colleagues, it would have been totally irresponsible to hand over more power to the who and the european commission, under the pretext of effectively fighting future health crisis, when they failed to prevent the spread of coronavirus. the who was notified by taiwan in december 2019 that there was a deadly pulmonary virus in china, but the who refused to alert the whole world about it because it was more interested in protecting the image of china than protecting the health of billions of people. the who declared a global pandemic only on 11 march 2020, after it said initially that the coronavirus was not human—to—human transmissible. the first two months of 2020 would have been essential in stopping the spread of covid by isolating china until they could contain the virus. but that did not happen. instead, the western world was in lockdown as of april of 2020, which didn’t stop the spread of the virus but actually killed our economies. also, healthy people were considered symptomatically infected while autopsies were not conducted on people who died of covid so we would know on time how this virus kills. clearly, the who and the european commission does not need more power to deal with this future pandemic, but actually to be made accountable for how they handled the last one!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard today that the covid-19 pandemic has taught us that health is a global issue and that cooperation and, of course, togetherness are key to solving the challenges we face. the european union global health strategy recognises this fact and underlines the european union's commitment to working with its partners to build a healthier and more resilient world. member states, with the support of the european institutions, should work to strengthen health systems, which means supporting the development of more resilient systems that need to respond effectively to crises and provide basic services to those in need. this document, which should not be short-term, and previous reform failures must now include investments in health infrastructure, training of health workers and improvements in the collection and analysis of health data. health is a fundamental right and a key component of global system development and ensuring universal access to health services. we must make a significant contribution to improving global health and achieving sustainable development. so it's not clear to me, to many of my colleagues who have spoken here today, and probably will speak for me, why can't we find common ground to stand behind something that the european union wants to make better? the only thing money, diamonds, real estate can't buy is health. keep that in mind when you doubt this document.
madam president, please. i support any global strategy if i see it in the interest of european citizens, in this case the security of public health care and equal access for all european citizens. this picture that i'm going to show you, and i know it's not going to look like much, this picture is of a small recliner, a small chair with no back wall, in a children's hospital in budapest. no, not 400 kilometers from the capital of hungary, in the countryside, but in the capital. a little chair that a mother has to spend days in because there's no way, no money to get more, more normal, quality care. i wouldn't believe it was true if this wasn't a picture of my own wife yesterday when she was in the hospital with our baby for days. i demand that there be a minimum health service in the european union that gives all citizens a safe and equal opportunity. this requires a stress test in the european union, and i expect the commission to be a partner in this. thank you very much, madam president, let us continue to work for a european health union.
madam president, colleagues, the pandemic has shown us that health can no longer be treated as a regional or national issue. it cannot be treated as a problem of one big political entity, because health, and especially pandemics, is not bound by borders. the european union was a major factor in finding solutions at the beginning of the pandemic and then in securing the necessary vaccine doses, both in our own countries and in third countries that needed help. but it was not enough to reduce the death toll by hundreds of thousands. health systems have not been prepared enough, and many states cannot afford to prioritize health even now, unfortunately. even within the european union there are major differences in health systems. for the european union to be a key factor in improving global health, we need to create a unity, a way of working, common procedures within our union. a viable strategy must take these into account.
mr president, dear colleagues, when the intergovernmental panel on climate change is using hysterical, spoiled people like greta thunberg – whose place should be in school, not on the streets – to promote these reports, clearly we are dealing with a belief system and cult rather than a scientifically based organisation. carbon dioxide is a gas that currently represents 0.041% of the whole atmosphere. despite this small percent, for decades now, campaigns are run to make people believe that manmade co2 is the cause of the climate change. the solutions proposed to fight climate change are higher taxes and more state control, as well as less rights and options for the people. ‘emissions must have a price that changes our behaviour.’ this is what ursula von der leyen said in this plenary in 2019. obviously the clear objective is to change our behaviour through higher taxes and prices, while fighting climate change is just a pretext to do it. people deserve a better future, but we clearly cannot achieve that by passing laws that are making them poorer while a small elite is getting richer by selling and forcibly selling them products and services that they do not need or want, but are allegedly saving the planet. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
blue-card response. – thank you so much for the question. and i’m glad that you asked this because it is surprising that when we talk about an important topic like this, like climate change, in the media, for example, and even in these plenary people like greta thunberg are more quoted than actual experts. so i’m asking you in reply, what is the expertise of greta thunberg, of bill gates, for example, to lecture us, to force us, to lobby us to pass laws to violate people’s rights and for them to make money? no, you answer exactly what i asked! because if these are scientists, look, science is based on facts, not on propaganda and everything that we heard here, everything that we heard here, it’s simply propaganda and not facts. you have to explain to the europeans... (the president cut off the speaker)
, blue-card speech. – ms ceccardi, do you accept the principle that in 1200 there was no industry around?
mr president, i want to say to the people watching: green europe is not a luxury, it is a necessity for life, but also for the economy. i have to say that even though we have the paris agreement of 2015 and it's been eight years since then, implementation is far too slow, money is scarce and member states pretend to work, but they don't implement. we promised the citizens that we would not leave anyone behind. the green transition without social equity will not happen. one month after the last ipcc report was published, the first climate process in history was started in romania by the declic association in cluj and is supported by several environmental organizations. we've seen similar cases in the netherlands, in france, and now the echr is hearing damien karem v. france. these processes will only multiply, because people are demanding their rights: the rights to life, to health, to climate rights, to a future. then we should hurry with the implementation, because otherwise it will cost us money, otherwise the citizens will not understand us, otherwise we will lose global competition. this is the way to europe. that's what we have to do in the future.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear members, thank you for this very important debate and exchange of views. i just noticed that there is quite large agreement, first, on the urgency, on the urgency of the problem, on the urgency for action. and bold action. i agree. and the fact that we are facing an unmeasurable challenge. anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions have warmed the climate at an unprecedented rate. and there’s just now a report coming out showing that the last eight years have been the hottest years since temperature is measured. so there is an issue. there is a problem. and global greenhouse gas emissions continue to increase with unequal contribution across regions and households. i’ve said there is a large agreement, but there are also voices contesting, a sort of climate negationism making us or making people believe that this is not true against the facts, against science. and this reminds me a bit about the debate galileo had some centuries ago when the inquisition tried to convince him by threatening him. and he also we hear some threats that the sun was turning around the earth and the earth was just flat. well, we have to fight this, absolutely, because this is fake news. it is dangerous information because it they really cheating on our population and on citizens. the european green deal places environmental concerns and planetary health at the centre of eu policy attention. arriving amid the global energy crisis, the ipcc’s messages confirm the need for the eu to stay at the forefront of the fight against climate change by progressing with its efforts to become climate neutral, climate resilient and to accelerate the clean energy transition. i also have heard that finally it’s just europe taking care of the climate. this is not exactly true. when we look around what happens in the us, when we look around even what happens in china – and certainly there are still a lot of shortcomings there – well, we see that they invest massively in climate technologies. and the real risk is not that we are losing the competition because we are investing in climate, but that we are losing the competition because we do not invest enough in climate technologies. that’s why, by the way, the commission has proposed now a clean industry strategy, and we have to convince our industry to invest more. and all these ideas that we can delay on electric cars and on renewable energy are extremely dangerous ideas because they are weakening the competition, our competitiveness in the world economy, where a lot of actors are going in the other direction. we have to clearly state that fossil energy has no future, not just because of russia, certainly also because of russia, but this energy has no future. and it is wrong! and when i listen also to this theory that we are renouncing to our prosperity, no, we have to build a new prosperity. and this prosperity can be richer, better, better quality of life and fairer. and i fully agree there is no climate policy without a strong social dimension. and this is possible. there are already in the package a lot of good initiatives like the climate social fund, but also our social policy has to go along very strictly, very tightly linked with our climate policy. and this is the way we can convince our citizens, and especially the most vulnerable, that climate policy is good for them because we have strong social policies and fairness in our society. and i have to say, yes, when i look at the results of some companies, especially those specialising in fossil fuels, with high and the highest earnings in the last years, well, there is something to do about that. there is some redistribution to do about that. and i think the commission has already also given some indication on that. i also heard it asked what we will do after because we have an objective, an intermediary objective and a final objective. but it is important also to go further and to see what we should do in the perspective of 2040. in line with the european climate law the commission will present an impact assessment next spring with a proposal for the eu’s intermediate climate target for 2040. a public consultation on the eu’s climate target for 2040 is open for contributions until 24 june 2023, and that 2040 target will be an important milestone for strengthening climate action and achieving climate neutrality. we need to ensure that the eu is on track and remains on track to meet its own domestic climate objective for 2050, and especially also globally: we have to be a strong voice globally. we have to show that what is at stake is really the survival of mankind.
this conversation is over. now, we're gonna take a little technical break before we move on to the next item, but if you're going to participate, please don't leave. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. the report reveals that humans are already responsible for an average warming of 1.1°c and that this warming is already causing harmful effects on human well-being, particularly on the most vulnerable. using current policies as a benchmark, the ipcc estimates that we will cross the 1.5c barrier this century, reaching 3.2c by 2100. we would be in breach of the paris agreement and that would have catastrophic consequences. spanish citizens are already suffering the consequences of climate change, it's a tangible problem. heatwaves, droughts and wildfires are intensifying, affecting our health and economy. fighting climate change now is the only way to protect our well-being in the decades ahead. the package of measures target 55 responds with legislative measures to the ipcc's call for immediate action. after setting the decarbonisation targets for 2030, work begins on the 2040 targets. at international level, there is an urgent need for non-binding commitments by third countries to be translated into legislative measures and for a decisive agreement at the next cop28 climate summit.
in writing. the report reveals that humans are already responsible for an average warming of 1.1°c and that this warming is already causing harmful effects on human well-being, particularly on the most vulnerable. using current policies as a benchmark, the ipcc estimates that we will cross the 1.5c barrier this century, reaching 3.2c by 2100. we would be in breach of the paris agreement and that would have catastrophic consequences. spanish citizens are already suffering the consequences of climate change, it's a tangible problem. heatwaves, droughts and wildfires are intensifying, affecting our health and economy. fighting climate change now is the only way to protect our well-being in the decades ahead. the package of measures target 55 responds with legislative measures to the ipcc's call for immediate action. after setting the decarbonisation targets for 2030, work begins on the 2040 targets. at international level, there is an urgent need for non-binding commitments by third countries to be translated into legislative measures and for a decisive agreement at the next cop28 climate summit.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission drawn up on behalf of the committee on regional development by mr younous omarjee on the cohesion dimension of the eu state aid rules and de minimis rules (o000016/2023 b9-0016/23) (2023/2634 ((rsp)).
author. madam president, commissioner, colleagues, last month the european commission amended the general block exemption regulation to facilitate support for the green, digital and industrial transitions. the commission also conducted a consultation on the revision of the de minimis regulation. in the wake of the covid-19 pandemic, the consequences of the war in ukraine and the us law on reducing inflation, this revision of the rules, commissioner, is welcome. but it must also be geared towards fair reindustrialisation objectives. in other words, the state aid scheme must effectively contribute to the convergence of economies and not exacerbate distortions. state rules must not be based solely on the principles of free and undistorted competition, but must also be aimed at other requirements. in the regi committee, we reminded commissioner vestager of how much we care that the cross-cutting objective of cohesion is fully taken into account in the rules. we reminded him that the reindustrialisation of europe, a green reindustrialisation, must be achieved in practice in all european territories, not with uniform rules, but taking into account the very wide diversity of situations in europe's regions and the persistent territorial inequalities, in full respect of article 174 of the treaty. it was argued that article 174 of the treaty did not have a sufficiently precise content for dg comp, and that we were asking, i quote commissioner vestager, for special considerations for the whole of the european union, apart from the champs-elysées, said the vice-president. this vision worries us. we are concerned because article 174 of the treaty defines targeted areas, which meet specific, defined and limited criteria. we are concerned because all european policies, including competition policy, including state aid and de minimis rules, must respect the transversal principles of cohesion. we are concerned because state aid is a tool for boosting regional and local economic fabric and it is therefore essential that the different guidelines and the various sectoral or horizontal frameworks provide for higher aid intensities and maximum amounts and wider eligible costs, depending on the level of development of the territories and geographical specificities. in short: bonuses in all state aid rules for less developed or isolated areas, such as the outermost regions or islands. commissioner schmit, the european commission is bound by the treaties, and 'union in diversity' does not mean 'union in uniformity'. nor should european policies weaken already disadvantaged regions and further deepen territorial divisions. special measures - indeed, additional measures - must be taken for certain regions and sectors, such as the social economy or the solidarity economy. as regards state aid and the block exemption scheme, what about the applications from the regions of europe? and how does the commission intend to ensure that the principles of cohesion, enshrined in articles 174 and 175 of the treaty, are better taken into account in future revisions of the state aid rules? as regards the so-called de minimis rules, the proposed increase in the threshold to eur 275 000 is not sufficient. we expect that regions with structural disadvantages should benefit from differentiated rules and that the additional costs associated with these disadvantages should be taken into account. the granting of differentiated ceilings will correct distortions of competition caused by the structural over-cost faced by the economies of certain regions, including islands. another question: will the commission incorporate into future de minimis rules specific provisions and differentiated ceilings for the outermost regions, island regions, mountain areas, less populated regions and regions in a development trap, as requested by the european parliament and voted for here in the plenary? in conclusion, i would say that the principle 'do not undermine cohesion' as laid down by the european commission must now be fully applied in the state aid system. we are waiting for answers to all these questions.
member of the commission. – madam president, indeed today’s debate touches at the core of our european union, on how we continue strengthening the internal market to ensure europe remains competitive. an internal market where companies can compete fairly on a level playing field, but also on how we ensure that the internal market benefits businesses from every corner, from every corner of the union, and where the cohesion goals can best be achieved. the commission has embarked on the review of the state aid rules to ensure that they remain fit for purpose. in this endeavour, what remains essential is that we preserve the integrity of the internal market, while taking into account the cohesion objectives. this has also guided our work on designing the recently adopted temporary crisis and transition framework. the treaty foresees that certain types of state aid may be considered compatible with the internal market. this includes aid to promote the economic development of areas where the standard of living is abnormally low, of areas with serious underemployment, aid to facilitate the development of certain economic areas and promote the development of the outermost regions. in designing the specific state aid rules, the geographic, demographic or development specificities of european territories are, therefore, taken into account. as regards regional aid, our rules allow member states to promote the development of certain disadvantaged areas, in recognition of the specific difficulties of companies in those areas. companies can benefit from regional investment aid in two ways: either under the general block exemption regulation or under the regional aid guidelines. for outermost regions, the amount of state aid can be granted is substantially higher than in other areas. our rules exceptionally also allow for operating aid. this possibility exists precisely to reflect the specific conditions in which companies in disadvantaged areas run their businesses. to improve connectivity, the general block exemption regulation also allows for specific state support for remote regions. this includes social aid for air and maritime passenger transport for residents in those territories, investment aid for small ports and airports and operating aid for small airports. the general block exemption regulation was amended in march. the amendment maintains the approach of specific state support for remote regions and increases the amounts of aid that can be granted to companies in these areas without prior notification. state aid rules therefore fully reflect the specificities of remote areas, allowing for more aid in remote areas than in other areas, and also forms of aid not allowed elsewhere. as regards de minimis aid, the revision of the applicable de minimis regulation is ongoing. without prejudging its outcome, the commission is, however, generally not in favour of different de minimis aid thresholds depending on the region. the commission’s margin for manoeuvre on de minimis is rather limited. but apart from de minimis aid, i want to again underline that other state aid legal bases, in particular the general block exemption regulation and the regional aid guidelines, offer many possibilities for targeted support to the union’s outermost regions, transition regions and least favoured regions.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! a few weeks ago, the european commission adopted a temporary crisis and transition framework to support sectors that are crucial to the transition to a zero-emission economy. the amendments to the general block exemption regulation were also approved at the same time. these changes are intended to make it easier for member states to provide the necessary support in key sectors and to simplify and accelerate the provision of support for the green and digital transformation. this is a very important action, especially in the context of the current difficult situation in the european union caused by past and ongoing crises, ranging from the covid-19 pandemic to russia's armed aggression against ukraine and its negative impact on the european economy. the difficult situation of many european regions is also worth mentioning. this is particularly the case for less developed regions, rural regions facing demographic challenges or regions undergoing industrial change. these regions are less able to cope with crises, which leads to even greater disparities and stratification in the union. we have to stop this from happening. i would therefore like to ask about the existing regional aid guidelines. as we all know, the current guidelines were put into effect before russia's full-scale attack on ukraine in 2022. since then, the situation has changed dramatically. i would therefore like to ask whether the commission is planning to make any changes in this area, too, in the light of the current situation. i would also like to take this opportunity to refer to the limit on aid to firms in difficulty, which is currently eur 200 000 over three years. does the european commission consider raising this ceiling for regions in difficulty, given the dynamic changing conditions and the need to react quickly to negative developments in the future?
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, the development of all european regions must be balanced. this is one of the foundations of our political project and the main objective of cohesion policy, a pillar which must always guide our political action. cohesion policy is not just about balancing territories. cohesion is a balance between the citizens of the territories, it is equality of opportunity, it is interterritorial solidarity; it is, in short, the best way of ensuring that the european union is a territory of coexistence, peace and freedom. when we are faced with temporary crisis situations, where cohesion policy does not reach, it is necessary for the states to help our enterprises, especially in those less favoured regions, those which suffer most, if possible, from the repeated crises we have experienced in recent years: less developed regions, regions in transition, mountainous, island, depopulated or rural regions. state aid protects our productive sectors, protects our goods and services, but most importantly, it supports and protects our citizens. but poorly targeted aid can create inequality between territories, especially between those most in need. our treaties are clear: we must promote convergence between the regions and correct the existing imbalances. we must prevent state aid from creating further imbalances. the commission's planned review of the regulations must ensure that the principles of cohesion enshrined in our treaties are taken into account and respected. we must ensure that businesses in the outermost regions, in transition regions, in less favoured regions, on islands, in mountainous regions, compete on equal terms with the rest and that citizens living in these regions are not forced to leave their homes. state aid, yes; for crisis situations, yes. but always guaranteeing balance and solidarity between the european regions; guaranteeing balance and solidarity between all the citizens of the european union.
on behalf of the renew group. madam vice-president, commissioner schmit, ladies and gentlemen, it is natural that member states want to support their economies, both in normal circumstances and, above all, after a very difficult period, with all these successive crises that we are experiencing. however, such aid to companies in rich regions risks leaving less developed regions even further behind. the cohesion funds, used as a fallback and, why not say, a cushion throughout this crisis to help the most affected sectors, are insufficient to reduce the gap between regions, and this protectionist policy does not help european cohesion. we have a single market, we have european policies, we have european strategies. of course we have to protect the european economy and support it, and intervene where necessary, but we have to do it in a coordinated way, taking into account all the regions and the impact on all europeans, because only in this way can we preserve this unity, which has brought so many benefits to the people of our countries, of the entire european union.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! i ask the president to grant the same time-tolerance as that granted to mrs herzberger-fofana. it's very good that we're talking today about the crucial issue of culture. when the charismatic president of the european commission, jacques delors, was asked what he would change after two terms as president, he said: "well, we didn't talk enough about culture". and i think it's good that today we're talking about culture, about restitution of cultural property. i say this as a former deputy minister of culture and the arts in my country, poland, the youngest deputy minister in my time. i say this as the former vice-chairman of the culture committee in the parliament, in my country. and this is a very important signal from the european union that it wants to fight against the smuggling and the looting of cultural property. but as a living being, you can't start the alphabet with a k or a n. let's start with a. let's do our job first. it is good that the european commission is doing this, but first let us try, in the name of historical justice, to make up for the losses that have been incurred in previous centuries. in the 17th century, there are no swedish colleagues here. during the swedish occupation of my country, thousands of cultural objects were taken away. we are still waiting for their return, including the manuscript of nicolaus copernicus' work "on the rotation of celestial bodies", where he was the first to show what moves: the sun or the earth, or the oldest work in polish "statut łaski" we are also waiting for the swedes to return it. same with the german casualties. let's talk about that, too.
a uachtaráin, i welcome this initiative to combat criminal activities and protect cultural heritage. the monitoring and control of trade in cultural goods can vary considerably within the single market, leaving loopholes for criminals to cover their tracks and misrepresent the origin of a commodity. measures to increase the traceability of the transfer of ownership of cultural goods within the single market, such as ensuring that information is stored digitally and that registers are interconnected, will therefore contribute significantly to the exposure of such infringements. great progress has been made in this regard in recent years in inventorying and training, but the illicit trafficking in cultural property itself has also changed considerably and remains a major issue, as colleagues have pointed out, impoverishing the countries of origin and fuelling money laundering and tax evasion. coordinated measures are paramount to mitigating such risks. implementing similar measures across the eu will help to strengthen the prevention and detection of crime in cross-border cases and provide a comprehensive picture of illicit goods. this action plan will provide a clear, comprehensive and effective framework to the eu’s contribution to the fight against trafficking of cultural goods and is not before time.
mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, there are two important issues when we deal with this trafficking of the cultural goods. first is the cross-border character in most of the cases, and then the expertise needed to solve these cases. an efficient approach implies cooperation at the european level, but also at international level. we need to have more than tools like modern, interconnected databases with all the stolen cultural goods so that the authorities and the experts in all the european union know what to look for. we need to increase the cooperation and common training for the investigators involved in solving these cases and the cooperation with and amongst the cultural experts. it is not just the economic value that we must protect, but also the historic one, taking into account the importance of these goods for our communities. culture is a significant part of our lives. it is not only about identity, it develops the spirit of our community. so we need more cooperation and efficiency in dealing with this increasing problem.
mr president, commissioner, i am glad that we are having this debate, because a community or a state that does not respect its cultural heritage at its rightful value is a society that is drifting. in my view, we need european legislation that we can apply in a uniform way, that is much clearer, much more firm, with immediate consequences and with legal means to combat and recover. why do i say this? because in our case, romania, we have an unrecovered heritage, which has been illegal in russia for almost a century, which does not want to return our treasure. the entire treasury of romania during the first world war was taken to russia. there are over 93 tons of gold and many other heritage assets that have never been returned and are heritage assets of the european union. we need to do more about this problem.
mr. chairman, blockchain technology and crypto-assets have seen a fabulous rise in recent years, with a total capitalization of over $1.2 trillion, and it is certain that their use will become increasingly common in the future. but the crypto market is still an extraordinarily volatile environment, where millions of inexperienced investors can lose their fortunes in a matter of seconds. that is why we have a duty to protect european consumers from crypto-assets through extremely stringent eu-wide regulations. today we voted to adopt the eu regulatory framework for cryptocurrencies. this will provide consumers with better information on the risks, costs and fees of using cryptocurrencies, and will subject issuers of crypto-assets to new, much clearer, much more rigorous and transparent rules for the provision of these services. only by applying a unified legal framework based on trust and transparency will we be able to ensure the development, the healthy development of this market.
mr president, i voted for this regulation to be adapted to the new realities brought about by technological developments in the cryptocurrency market. i'm a proponent and a user of blockchain technology myself, but i'm aware that a lot of users have hijacked the purpose of blockchain technology by using it for illicit purposes. and that's why i think that in order to prevent crime in the crypto space, we need very clear regulations on information that identifies both sides of crypto asset transfers. as long as cryptocurrency payments remain a hidden and clandestine procedure associated with the commission of crimes, blockchain technology will not be able to reach its true potential. that is why i believe that the regulation on information accompanying transfers of funds has a well-defined purpose: to detect and investigate money laundering and terrorist financing.
mr president, we are not talking about more flexibility or relaxing the rules. on the contrary, they add new and heavier constraints on the part of the institutions of the european union and the powers that control them on states such as portugal. they want to impose a regulatory framework with increasing intrusions into the sovereignty and budgetary, financial, economic and social policies and choices of states like portugal, with more sanctions and with sanctions that are easier to apply. by imposing limits on primary spending, they want to put even more pressure on reducing public investment, not valuing wages, divesting from public services and other social functions of the state. what is required is the definitive repeal of the stability pact and its derivatives. nothing should preclude the sovereign use and implementation of the instruments and potential at portugal's disposal to guarantee the rights and aspirations of the portuguese workers and people to develop the country.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first and foremost, i really would like to thank all of you for your intervention and i am encouraged by these initial reactions. i took note, of course, of those areas where there are differences. as you know, it is been a long and winding road to table these proposals. first, we launched the review of our economic governance more than three years ago, just before the pandemic swept across europe, and our response to that immense shock centred on the sure mechanism and nextgenerationeu. you know that both have been very ambitious, just as these proposals are, and we succeeded with approving and using the mechanisms we created because we found unity in our approach. therefore, let’s look also at this proposal as a starter of a new chapter in this story, one in which the finding unity will be equally important. i think that the level of the discussion and debate we had this morning is just clearly demonstrating how important the revision of the stability and growth pact is for the future of the european union, for the well-being of our citizens, and, of course, for the competitiveness of our economy. mr ferber highlighted the importance of a responsible approach to the eu budget, to national budgets, but also to have good, informed discussions about the budgets of all eu member states. mr van overtveldt called for more credibility of the whole process, and we believe that new rules will be more enforceable and that the key aspect here is the fact that there will be much stronger ownership by the member states of their adjustment plans, because that is one of the cornerstones of our proposals. member states will evaluate medium—term fiscal structural plans and they would report annually on the progress. i think if you look at it from this perspective, the fiscal adjustment path plans will not only have a strong ownership, but i believe it will have also strong respect from the national authorities because they know they are not only presenting the plans, but putting also the national reputation at the stake. therefore, we believe that the rules would be more enforceable. i really would like to thank mr pedro marques, ms poptcheva, mr mureșan and others for their remarks and support not only for clarity, but also flexibility of the proposed rules. i know that their call for central fiscal capacity was repeated in several interventions. in economic terms, we in the european commission believe that the central fiscal capacity would be an important rule to cope with large economic shocks or large common investment needs, especially in the euro area where there is a single monetary policy and national budgetary responsibilities. however, there is currently no consensus on this issue among the member states. furthermore, as i was just referring a minute ago, we have already put together sizeable fiscal funds in order to have sustained and sustainable recovery from the pandemic through the recovery and resilience facility. as you know, these funds are available until 2026. on top of it, we put massive investment into the green policies you have been discussing in this chamber. our new approach to state aid to not only tackle the aftershocks of covid—19, but also to help our households, our companies, our member states, with unprecedented challenges linked with the energy crisis of the last year. and to some of the honourable members, i just would like to also remind our proposals on taxing excessive revenues of the energy companies and making it available for supportive measures of the citizens of europe and struggling smes. if you allow me, mr niedermayer was asking why we are coming with these proposals so late, and you would recall that the debate on these rules is highly complex. i want to underline how much we benefited from the exchange with the european parliament and with the member states and other stakeholders. we believe that the time we needed to finalise these proposals was important to build as much consensus as possible with the help and support of also your intervention. we hope that we can achieve this very important goal and we can achieve it before the end of the year. ms yon—courtin, mr mureșan and mr lambert have been calling for more investments into the green and digital transition, indeed, also important points of increased defence capabilities of the european union in these very difficult geopolitical times, the need to address the social vulnerabilities in our member states. what i think is important that in the old fiscal framework, the required of fiscal adjustment was only based on debt levels and cyclical conditions. so also to respond to ms penkova, by contrast, the proposed framework incentivises the implementation of reforms and investment, including those needed to achieve climate and fiscal goals, by allowing, in this case, an extended and more gradual fiscal adjustment path from four to seven years in member states with debt challenges. so the social dimension comes also in at european semester and the country specific recommendations will be included in the mid—term plans and can be finalised. so to conclude, mr president, honourable members, i think that we would all agree that europe needs an economic governance framework that can deliver on its promise of stability and growth, one that makes us a better place to face the challenges of today and tomorrow. we believe that the commission has put forward a balanced set of proposals, but of course, this is just the beginning of the dialogue that will continue over the coming months. today was the first page in that new chapter and we are, of course, counting on the european parliament’s support to write the rest of the story together.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, mr vice-president, from what i hear today, it is clear that the expectations are high and that is good. clearly, there are many opinions on this topic, which is also good. it shows the significance of these questions after our discussion here today. i remain – as the vice-president also said – confident that we will reach a compromise within the set time frame together. the march council stated a view to conclude the legislative work in 2023. yes, this is a tight time frame, but it is not an impossible time frame. as i said in my first statement, we need an updated framework in place to make sure that we have rules to support sound public finance, the reforms that promote growth and that keep our union strong and competitive. and i would like to reassure you that the presidency is committed to work hard to advance as far as possible during this last leg of our presidency, and that we are also in close contact with the incoming spanish presidency to ensure a smooth transition at the end of june. and we can count on the constructive spirit of all stakeholders involved to move this forward swiftly. and from what i hear here today in the debate, that is also a common view.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. – the stability and growth pact defines the direction to be followed in the fiscal policies of eurozone member states. in the absence of a federalising budget, sgp rules have functioned as a sub-optimal mechanism for the eurozone to manage financial stability with patchy effectiveness. for political reasons, deficit rules have not been applied equally to all member states. states in fiscal surplus declined to launch expansionary policies so as to promote macroeconomic balance across the eurozone. the rules have served to restrict public investment as needed budgetary cuts largely targeted investment envelopes. the updates now being proposed were meant to correct these problems. proposals are actually at the lowest common denominator of what could have been expected. the dilemmas encountered in past policymaking will persist. so will the political imbalance that swayed past spg-related decisions. more sustainable and bolder rule changes would have been appropriate, like increased flexibility allowing for fiscal adjustments to carry higher levels of public investment, plus a stronger focus on the social dimension. admittedly, the difficulties in securing consensus for a more comprehensive approach are significant. i disagree with the establishment of a federalising eurozone budget. consequently, i will support the proposals made, with amendments, as they are better than no change.
dear colleagues, on europe day – this day of symbolism, of history and of the future – we welcome germany’s bundeskanzler, olaf scholz. herr bundeskanzler, herzlich willkommen im europaparlament. ‘world peace cannot be safeguarded without the making of creative efforts proportionate to the dangers which threaten it’ – so begins the declaration presented by robert schuman on 9 may 1950. it rings true today. every year, on this day, we celebrate europe – an unprecedented project of reconciliation fundamentally based on solidarity, a project that brings people together without trying to make us all the same, a project that lit a light that permeated through iron curtains and concrete walls. europe day reminds us of what is possible when we come together, of the responsibility we have to keep moving forward. the schuman declaration, our european union, took bravery. change takes courage. the european union is not perfect, and i know many share our frustrations with some of our processes. but the fundamental pillars of hope, of possibility, of freedom, democracy and the rule of law, make this political project unique. we cannot take what we stand for, what we have achieved – and what we must achieve still – for granted. we must keep evolving. european progress was made possible thanks to daring solutions. and more daring solutions will be needed going forward. i know that we can count on germany for just that. yours, dear chancellor, is a member state which shows unwavering commitment to the betterment of europe. so let me thank you for germany’s support for ukraine; for germany’s contribution to the construction of a new eu security architecture; for germany pushing new technologies; for germany defending human rights, such as the rights women and men in iran; and for so much more. chancellor you once said ‘we have every reason to be more optimistic about our future’. that is the spirit that must drive us forward. we must reform, anticipate change – not suffer it. we must find that courage that underpinned the schuman declaration again. we must help that light keep shining brighter. we know that we are so much stronger, when we are together, and we will look to germany – as to all members states – to help reform and prepare our european future. the european union matters. it is worth it. es lebe europa!
the next item is ‘this is europe – debate with the chancellor of germany, olaf scholz’ (2023/2665(rsp)). herr bundeskanzler, the floor is yours.
federal chancellor of the federal republic of germany. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank you for the opportunity to speak to you today, on europe day, in this special place. i am honoured and touched by your invitation. it is an honour to be here, because as freely elected members of parliament you represent 450 million europeans - and therefore the citizens of europe. and it touches me because may 9th is the only correct, forward-looking answer to the world war unleashed by germany, to destructive nationalism and imperialist megalomania. 73 years ago today, french foreign minister robert schuman proposed the creation of a new 'organised and vibrant europe'. the community's activities began with the pooling of coal and steel, the commodities which for decades had been used to produce arms. weapons our grandfathers and great-grandfathers used to shoot each other. the dream of the fathers and mothers of europe was to put an end to this mutual killing once and for all. that dream has come true for us. war between our peoples has become unthinkable the european union to the thanks and happiness of us all. but a look beyond the immediate neighbourhood of our union shows in a terrible way that this dream is not a reality in all the countries of europe. the people of ukraine are defending their freedom and democracy, their sovereignty and independence against a brutal russian invasion army, day after day, at great cost. we support them in this. the founding fathers and mothers of the european union gave the unifying europe a task which went far beyond its internal pacification. it was clear to them that europe had a global responsibility, because the well-being of europe was inseparable from the well-being of the rest of the world! the schuman declaration reads as follows: this production means coal and steel will be made available to the whole world without distinction or exception, in order to contribute to raising the standard of living and to promoting the works of peace. europe will then be able to devote more resources to one of its most important tasks: the development of the african continent. this 'development of the african continent' was then mainly countered by the european colonial exploitation of our neighbouring continent. this is why tackling the consequences of colonialism must be the essence of any european partnership with the countries of africa, asia and latin america, a partnership that leaves behind the eurocentric outlook of the past decades, a partnership that not only maintains but establishes a common ground. i believe that building such partnerships is more important than ever. the european union is a single market, and it is not just a single market. that's just five percent of the world's population. in asia, africa and south america, new economic, demographic and political heavyweights are emerging - a success, by the way, of the division of labour between countries and continents, which has lifted a billion people out of poverty. they will not tolerate a bi- or tri-polar world order, and rightly so. that 's why i 'm convinced: the world of the 21st century will be multipolar - it already is. but what does this mean for us in europe? is europe becoming, to quote the french writer paul valéry, what it really is: a small foothill, a cape on the asian mainland? we can't answer that by looking back. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. and those who constantly warn of europe's decline are not winning the future, especially since they completely underestimate one thing: how capable europe is of change and action. we have seen this time and again in the crises of the past and the present. let us remember how we came together, in solidarity and unity with partners around the world, through the last winter. the three lessons are these: firstly, the future of europe is in our hands. secondly, the more we build europe together, the easier it will be to secure a good future for ourselves. and thirdly, not less, but more openness, more cooperation is the demand of our time. the european union must be able to play a leading role in the world of tomorrow, not above and below other countries and regions, but on an equal footing with them, alongside them. the european union must change to do this. we need a geopolitical european union, an enlarged and reformed european union and, last but not least, a european union open to the future. in all this i see the european parliament as a driving force and an ally. let us take the creation of a geopolitical europe. here, in front of the european parliament, willy brandt already testified to its existential necessity 50 years ago. 'the unification of europe', he wrote in our family register at the time, 'is not just a question of the quality of our lives. it is a question of survival between the giants and in the divided world of young and old nationalisms. other the european parliament has always acted in accordance with this maxim, and i am very grateful to you for that. you will do so by upholding the rule of law and by constantly reminding us all that europe is only heard when it speaks with one voice. the recent brutal war of aggression by russia against ukraine has shown us all how indispensable this realization is. and consequently, the european union has rarely been more united than after this infamous break in the european and international peace order. this experience is the basis for a geopolitical europe. i have made some suggestions on this during my visit to charles university in prague last summer. this includes a much closer integration of our defence efforts and the building of an integrated european defence economy. the european peace facility, the joint procurement of ammunition for ukraine, the closer cooperation of many of our countries in air defence, our strategic compass, close cooperation between nato and the european union - these are all good approaches which we want to deepen and accelerate. we must now set the course for the reconstruction of ukraine. yes, this requires political and financial capital and in the very long term. and at the same time, it is a great opportunity not only for ukraine, but for europe as a whole, because a prosperous, democratic, european ukraine is the clearest rejection of putin's imperial, revisionist, international law-breaking policy on our continent. europe must also survive in global competition with other major powers. the united states remains europe's most important ally. and here's the thing: the more we invest now in our security and defense -- in civilian resilience, in technological sovereignty, in reliable supply chains, in our independence in critical raw materials -- the better allies we are to our transatlantic friends. our relationship with china has been aptly described as a triad of 'partner, competitor, systemic rival' with rivalry and competition from china having undoubtedly increased. the eu sees this and the european union is responding. i agree with ursula von der leyen that no decoupling, but clever de-risking is the motto. the countries of the global south are new partners whose concerns and legitimate interests we take seriously. that is why it is so important that europe acts in solidarity and with determination to promote food security and poverty reduction, and that we honour the commitments we have made in international climate and environmental protection. and that too is part of a geopolitical europe: it is more than reasonable that we now conclude new free trade agreements quickly with mercosur, mexico, india, indonesia, australia, kenya and, in the future, with many other countries. (applause from the centre) fair agreements that promote the economic development of our partners, not hinder it! fair, for example, means that the first processing of raw materials takes place there and not in china or elsewhere. if we incorporate this idea into our trade relations, we will also be making a major contribution to the diversification of our supply chains. europe must turn to the world. if we continue to negotiate new free trade agreements for years without success, others will dictate the rules in the future with lower environmental and social standards. we have already taken a key decision last year on the shape of a geopolitical europe. and here too the european parliament has been a driving force. we have chosen a great europe. we have said to the citizens of the western balkan countries, ukraine, moldova and, in the future, georgia: you are one of us. (applause from the centre) we want you to become part of our european union! and this is not about altruism. it's about our credibility and it's about economic sanity. and it is about securing peace in europe after the turn of events that russia's war of aggression has brought about. a geopolitical europe is also measured by whether it keeps its promises to its immediate neighbours. a genuine enlargement policy is based on its promises, first and foremost to the western balkan countries, to which we have offered accession for more than 20 years. the process of normalisation between serbia and kosovo, which has begun, and the reforms in the candidate countries must of course be continued. of course, north macedonia's political courage must be followed by rapid progress towards accession. (applause from the centre) but we must also honour such progress, otherwise enlargement policy will lose its impetus and the european union will lose its influence and radiance. the european union must be reformed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. and i very much welcome the fact that the european parliament is working on proposals for institutional reform, including those which do not belong to the parliament itself. i will continue to promote in the european council that we look at these ideas. the council's position is clear: more qualified majority voting in foreign policy and taxation. (applause from the centre) i will continue to work on that. and i'm very grateful for the broad support from your ranks. i would like to say to the sceptics that unanimity, not 100% agreement on all decisions, does not create the greatest possible democratic legitimacy. on the contrary! it is precisely the lobbying and the struggle for majorities and alliances that distinguish us as democrats, the search for compromises that also serve the interests of the minorities. that's exactly what we mean by liberal democracy! it is also essential for the future that we insist on respect for democratic principles and the rule of law within the eu. and here again, i know a very large majority of you are on my side. so why not use the upcoming debate on reform of the european union to strengthen the european commission's ability to launch infringement proceedings whenever our fundamental values of freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights are violated? (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, there is one more element to be added - i have just mentioned it - and that is that we europeans must open ourselves to the future, without ifs and buts. first of all, it means getting rid of the old problems that have crippled us for years, that make it all too easy for other countries to divide us and play us off against each other. i am thinking, for example, of our approach to refugee migration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. but we cannot wait for this solidarity to come over us, as if by the holy spirit. europe, as robert schuman said 73 years ago today, is made up of 'concrete facts', of 'the solidarity of facts'. i therefore urge that the progress we have made in the reform of the common european asylum system in the council, after long and difficult negotiations, be brought to a conclusion before the european elections. their agreement last month on a negotiating position on key parts of the reform was a very important step along this path. now we must finish the work with all our might. (applause from the centre) we share the common goal of better managing and organising irregular migration without compromising our values. we can take advantage of something even more powerful than before: in many parts of europe we are now in dire need of labour, including from third countries. if we consistently link these opportunities for regular migration with the demand that countries of origin and transit take back those who have no right to stay here with us, then all sides benefit. this includes measures to ensure effective external border control, as we agreed at the european council in february. then there is growing acceptance of smart, controlled and regulated immigration in our countries. and then we strip the foundation of those who make politics out of fear and resentment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i'm talking about the shift of our countries, our economies and our societies towards a climate-neutral future. the first industrial revolution began here in europe. shouldn't we be the ones to shape europe's next big change? i do not need to explain to you the opportunity this departure offers europe. it is important that the citizens of our countries also feel this in their daily lives, for example because electricity from renewable energy sources will become cheaper in the future, because there are enough charging stations for electric cars and lorries throughout europe, because new, future-oriented jobs are being created in the energy sector or in the chip industry, because here in europe we develop and market the technologies that the whole world needs for the transition towards climate neutrality. to make this change ambitious and at the same time to leave no one behind - this is the great project for the future that we europeans should be united behind now. (applause from the centre) to quote oscar wilde, "the future belongs to those who see the possibilities before they become obvious". it's not for the nostalgic. it is not the responsibility of the revisionists who dream of national glory or aspire to imperial power. (applause from the centre) the ukrainians are paying with their lives for this madness of their powerful neighbour. two hundred miles northeast of here in moscow, putin is moving his troops, tanks and missiles today. let us not be intimidated by such a power grab! let us remain steadfast in our support for ukraine as long as it takes! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our european union united in its diversity is the best guarantee that this past will not return. and that is why the message of 9 may is not what is coming from moscow today, but our message, and that is: the past will not triumph over the future. and the future - our future - is the european union. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
vielen dank, chancellor scholz, for that inspiring speech. i will now give the floor to the representatives of the political groups, starting with the president of the ppe group, manfred weber. i would like to make an appeal for everyone to stick to their speaking time.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. welcome to the heart of european democracy! yesterday, may 8: we commemorate and rejoice in the liberation from the nazi state of injustice. and today, 9 may, we celebrate and commemorate the courage of the fathers and mothers of european unity. just a day of the week, it's maybe a quirk of history, a coincidence. but what is incredibly amazing is that there was only five years between these two milestones in european history. france: de gaulle, after all the german atrocities, reached out his hand to public opinion. what courage, what leadership! konrad adenauer took that hand for west germany. he even rejected stalin's proposal to accept a neutral, reunified germany. he chose european unity. he chose nato against the public opinion at the time. what courage, what leadership! yes, today we are good at management, vaccine procurement, arf, ten sanctions packages, energy crisis - all of this has been managed. but de gaulle, adenauer, kohl and mitterrand were politicians who could not only manage everyday life, but had the power to shape history. the european parliament has already spoken today, as it did in prague, of the abolition of unanimity in foreign policy, and of the building of a european defence system, including a european army, to name just two examples. and emmanuel macron has spoken like that. we have set up the conference on the future of europe specifically to discuss these issues. unfortunately, after macron's re-election, there was no initiative, there was no convention. mr chancellor, i must say this again for us: we do not need any more speeches on principles. we need the courage now to lead europe into the future. europe needs leadership! and we, as the european people's party, are now calling for a convention to revise the treaties to make europe fit for the decades to come. you yourself have said that this is the only way to achieve a great europe. and the second point i would like to make today is that europe is very grateful for the clear pro-european stance of the germans, of all the major democratic parties in germany. but we also need guidance in the everyday life of germany. the debate on the incinerator has left many perplexed. the debate on the stability and growth pact is now due. i don't hear much from berlin about how to position yourself. we are faced with fundamental questions in dealing with china. i read today that the german finance minister was not allowed to travel to beijing. they want to invite chinese investors to the port of hamburg. their coalition partners are opposed to this. the double whammy, the 200 billion in response to the ukraine crisis, was not voted on in the european union, although the single market impact behind it is great. and the arms deliveries to ukraine: some people had the impression that in berlin they do not believe in the military success of ukraine. it was only then that the issue of tank deliveries was discussed, and it was only after months of long, agonizing debate that the tanks were finally delivered. many of your government's positions are often too late and too unambitious. europe needs guidance from berlin. as chairman of the christian democrats, i would also like to point out that we are fighting climate change together. we have agreed on the ets, the social fund and the border adjustment text here. but i say, it's not enough. the viessmann example. the viessmann sale is a warning sign. our companies obviously don't believe in the green deal, the business case behind it. are we - this is the question - creating more jobs in china than in europe with our decisions? at least that has to be our driving force, and we have to see that competitiveness is back on the agenda. food production is also a big issue. consumer prices are rising, and food prices are part of the inflation. we should actually be exporting more food to north africa, which we are not, and at the same time our farmers are being styled as scapegoats. this too is not compatible with the need for a policy of cooperation. finally, mr chancellor, when you joined the spd, willy brandt made a promise. i quote: "dare to be more democratic". i would like to ask you: what does this mean for europe now? what does it mean for us in this parliament in 2024? for me, as a representative of the epp, an election means one candidate, one candidate and a programme, content, ideas, so that people can decide. it applies to the election of a mayor, a chancellor in germany, but also to the election of a president, a president of the european commission. unfortunately, the proposals of this parliament on the process of the top candidates and also on the transnational lists, which were decided by majority vote here, have not been adopted by either macron or merkel - i say this explicitly - or sánchez or you. i therefore ask you, in the spirit of willy brandt, to reduce the number of backrooms in the council and to increase democracy in this house, in the european parliament. let's start with the future. not tomorrow, but today.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr scholz, for his report. it is a pleasure to welcome you to the european parliament on the day we commemorate our birth as a community project to guarantee peace and freedom on our continent. chancellor, on 23 may the social democratic party of germany will be celebrating 160 years of history, 160 years of building a free, democratic, modern europe in the permanent search for greater equality between its citizens. your presence in this house comes at a time when putin's war against ukraine is entering a crucial phase in the face of the announced spring offensive of the ukrainian army. we want peace in ukraine. but we don't want the peace of the vanquished. we want a just peace based on respect for international law. and as long as the war lasts, we must continue to help the ukrainian people in all areas: political, humanitarian, military and economic. we are very clear about this in this house. on the other hand, in a context where high inflation continues to directly harm the population, and especially the most vulnerable, we must move forward with determination in the fulfilment of the objectives of the social pillar by transposing the directive on minimum wages, adopting a directive on the minimum living income and the right to housing as a basic necessity. mr. scholz, we are aware of the impact the war has on german industry and households. thanks to his leadership, germany has taken difficult but necessary decisions on matters crucial to the future of our union, from military aid to ukraine to the gas ceiling. and now we must lead the reform of the electricity market to ensure reasonable prices. ladies and gentlemen, if we want to move forward in the longed-for strategic autonomy we need to do so by talking about the reindustrialisation of the european union. along with the passage of the chip act and the electricity market reform, we must accelerate the proposal on critical raw materials. and in order to address the social, climate and environmental challenges, as well as reindustrialisation, we need to strengthen economic governance, with clearer, more flexible fiscal rules, which allow us to ensure budgetary stability with the necessary growth of the economy. today, 9 may, we are celebrating europe day. and for the social democratic family, europe is first and foremost a community of values. a community of values questioned today by the far right, who have been joined by a conservative right that has lost and has taken the decision to become the opposition. the conservatives are the opposition in europe today. we have seen how the opposition in germany is also. and i really think that the important thing is to be aware that we must strengthen the alliances that have succeeded in building a european project based on these common values and not take the side of those who want to undermine the european project. we know whose side weber's on. you're much more comfortable with mrs. meloni than with chancellor scholz. in any case, each one will have to choose. mr scholz, the social democrats are not necessarily europeans, they are europeans by conviction. even at the most difficult moments in recent european history, our commitment to the union has not wavered. and i am convinced that on 9 may europe could not receive a better gift than the german government's commitment to continue to unblock resistance and reach agreements in times of crisis, to advance integration, to break taboos, to work for progress in defence of our system of values, which is nothing but to defend democracy, freedom and respect for human rights.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. mr chancellor, you come to strasbourg at a very good time, because after the last few months, frankly, there is a lot to do for the man with the policy expertise from berlin. the ampelcoalition, as you know, has come with a claim to breakthrough, renewal and progress. your party has even campaigned you as a climate chancellor, as someone who takes action, as someone who delivers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i must say quite frankly, mr. chancellor, the image of you as a delivering chancellor has unfortunately faded in recent months. and also the claim that some in this coalition make about germany's role in europe, and, it seems - and i have to say this quite frankly - sometimes yours too. because you're letting go instead of taking a clear position. if the fdp, for example, is jeopardising germany's credibility and the german government's reputation as a reliable partner in europe, and this is happening in the context of a key european union climate policy project, the phase-out of the internal combustion engine, a key element of the "fit for 55" package, what is the german chancellor doing? first he says nothing at all, and then he also supports the coalition partner, who is currently losing the confidence of the european partners. or another example: mr chancellor, you are right to say that you have come at a turning point in the history of ukraine. but then in many places here in brussels and strasbourg and in many capitals of the european union it often seems as if you have to be prevented from taking any concrete action. this is in a situation where solidarity, where capacity for action was required, not the way a german chancellor should position himself. i could go on and on, but that's not why we're here. i'm here, mr. chancellor, because i want to appeal to you. i would like to appeal to you because i want to see you fight for europe, because we need a german chancellor who thinks and acts in a european way. i would like, for example, a chancellor who has learned from the mistakes of his own party in dealing with russia and who does not use exactly the same tone of voice in dealing with china ... (applause)... who puts human rights at the forefront of a common european strategy towards china and who also draws the necessary conclusions for the industrial and economic strength of the european union. i want a chancellor who knows that this continent can only compete if it stands together and if it finally takes the lead in the green transformation and no longer lags behind. even if it costs money. and yes, i know who your finance minister is. and yet, i would like a chancellor who can convince the german people that the stability and growth pact, as it stands, is actually holding back these very important investments in the future. i would like to see a german chancellor who says, and you yourself have mentioned this, that i come from a city which has become rich and powerful not because it has closed itself off, but because it has opened itself up to the world. that is why i am very clearly opposed to an asylum policy which seeks to build a fortress europe. i want a chancellor like that. seventy-three years ago, robert schuman gave a seminal speech that changed the history of this continent forever. at a time when the terror of nazi germany had brought death and misery and there were probably few people in europe who had not lost loved ones in recent years, he painted a picture of peace, of community and of a better future. i wish today a chancellor who would go forward with such foresight. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you are advocating a convention, but do not stand by and let this parliament go along with it! we have proposed the launch of a european convention. i am sure that if you campaign vigorously in the council for this, we can get a majority for it and convene a european convention before the european elections.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, mr chancellor, ladies and gentlemen, to understand the role of germany, one needs to start with the basic question: what sort of political system is the european union? and i submit it is a combination of an oligarchy and a tyranny of the majority. the parliament functions, of course, as the tyranny of the majority and the commission is a typically oligarchic institution, unelected with limited democratic legitimacy and having an unquestionable lust for power. and as far as i could understand you, mr chancellor, you want this body to have even more power. but the pillars of european oligarchy are the big guys among the member states, and the biggest is, of course, germany. the big guys do what they want, never bothering to consult anyone and calling it leadership. and with the voting system in the council securing their interests, there is little chance they could be outvoted. of many sins that the german governments have committed, let me mention two: the migration crisis – when germany single-handedly opened the eu borders – and recently, the energy and security crisis, which resulted from its having a long and murky tradition of political romance with russia. today, the german politicians beat their breasts and promise to be good boys in the future. well, the problem with the big guys is they can promise anything and repentance is easy for them as it is inconsequential. when i heard that the best option would be the gradual abolition of the veto and the abolition of the veto in foreign policy, i simply cannot believe my ears. the russian policy was the most spectacular disaster of the eu’s big guys, and those who are most responsible for this want to have more power in foreign policy. the logic behind it boggles the mind. the more we screw up, the more power we want. the logic would be the reverse. because you screw up so much, you should be kept in check for as long as possible. chancellor scholz, i do not have any illusions about germany mending its ways. you are too big, you are too hubristic, especially lately, i read your statement and i heard something like this today also, about germany taking responsibility for the eu. just a matter of interest, if you could satisfy my intellectual curiosity, where can one read about the german responsibility for the eu in the treaties? the only proper thing for the german governments would be to take the backbenches. and as political hygiene requires, let others run the show. you tried. you failed. you should withdraw. unless, mr chancellor, you and your colleagues in the european oligarchy believe that german leaders, like diamonds, are forever.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. people are crying out for answers to the ever-growing social injustice, and unfortunately you did not address this issue at all in your speech. food prices are exploding, rents are rising, one in four children in the european union is growing up in poverty, and 54 million people do not know how to pay their energy bills. on the other hand, the wealth is growing immeasurably. every day during the pandemic, another person has become a billionaire at the expense of the work of others. the pharmaceutical industry, the energy and food companies, now the defense industry, they're making a fool of themselves. these are the winners of crises and wars in our time, while the majority of the population is looking in the tube and is left alone by your policies. you could have announced here today the elimination of the obscene profits of the corporations, to put a stop to the greed inflation of the super-rich once and for all and to advance the fight against poverty in the european union, or - unlike your minister for economic affairs, habeck - you could have announced a climate policy that would not allow the rich to continue to pollute the climate with their private jets and yachts, while people with less money have to fear that they can still turn up their heat. and, dear terry, let me remind you that you are also involved in the government of germany. this act of being the opposition, no one will let you get away with it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the common foreign and security policy. i am sure, mr chancellor, that your predecessor in office, willy brandt, whom you mentioned, would have firmly rejected this erroneous approach to armaments and the militarization of european foreign policy and would have been committed to peace and disarmament. i also expect germany to make this commitment to a strategically independent peace-keeping force in the european union, and i expect you to do the same, mr chancellor. your finance minister lindner has already developed an almost morbid love of the investment brake. even the commission's totally inadequate proposal to reform the european debt rules is rejected by your government. but europe really deserves better, mr scholz, than a germany that is on the brakes with national egoism. the recipe for common european development is not austerity but solidarity. we need a solidarity pact for employment, investment and environmental protection. your government is failing to take in and house the refugees in germany, whom you are now - and this is in the spirit of the right over there - trying to make scapegoats for your domestic policy failure. your minister of the interior, faeser, is in favour of rapid deportations and fences at the eu's external borders, and this commission - you have to imagine this - this commission even wants to enforce the prison-like accommodation of children. wow! the german government is supporting mrs von der leyen's insane plan to abolish the right of asylum and thus a basic human right! this is a political bankruptcy, mr. scholz. but i say to you, mr chancellor, that the future of europe cannot be built on the backs of the poor, the weak and the vulnerable. if you want europe, you have to take it from the corporations and the super-rich. we need a social justice revolution.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is you, mr scholz, chancellor of a once respected, strong and viable country which is in complete decline under your government, who is now presenting yourself here as the great visionary of europe? with your permission, mr chancellor, there is something involuntarily funny, downright ridiculous about this. germany, under your leadership, which is not a country, is in economic decline and in the process of deindustrialisation, an energy-policy ghost nation, laughed at by its neighbours. a country with a rotting infrastructure, with massive violent crime, with a disastrous immigration policy. a country in the midst of an educational disaster. a country with significant health care problems, even for its children now. the commission has also been active in the fight against fraud and corruption. so why don't you do your homework before you start spreading your visions around here? former chancellor helmut schmidt is credited with the phrase: "if you have visions, go to the doctor". in today's germany, you wait months for an appointment to see a doctor. you have a lot of work to do at home, mr. chancellor.
i have to say, madam president, i am surprised and shocked, mr chancellor, at the way leading representatives of the governing parties talk about you. the latest highlight is mrs reintke's speech today or her name in yesterday's world. i quote: "the disappointment with our neighbours is great. the german chancellor's european policy raises questions. other i ask you, mrs reintke, what european policy? last year, mr chancellor, you blocked the supply of tanks to ukraine, and in their desperation the german greens have put forward a motion calling on you to finally deliver. or you say in your government statement of february that there must be effective control of europe's external borders, and almost all the meps from the mainstream parties voted against this in april. or in march, here the spd and greens vote for the compulsory renovation of buildings, and a few days later your federal minister of construction speaks against it. it is obvious to everyone in europe and here again today: in your government, in the mainstream parties and even in your own party, there is self-employment and chaos instead of the ambition and interest in europe that europe so badly needs. that is why many in europe today say that under chancellor merkel europe has not always delivered in germany, but with chancellor scholz germany almost always does not deliver in europe. mr chancellor, it is time for a european response, but unfortunately that was not your speech today.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. now a little bit of a different soundtrack is coming in here. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i would remind you once again that we have unfortunately never had the opportunity to deal with mrs merkel's basic positions on european politics. and the personal silence, the embarrassing silence of mrs merkel on president macron's sorbonne speech showed the whole continent what the beautiful german word "drowning silence" really means. but chancellor scholz has suggested that we talk about the future, and i'm happy to do that. the remnants of unanimity in the council are indeed a major retarding factor. many people think of foreign policy, but i want to refer to taxation: how many problems could we solve if we could put together a european energy tax package, in terms of energy costs for people and also for european industry in the transition to climate neutrality?
i have to say, madam president, mr chancellor, today is europe day. we can congratulate ourselves today and every day on the successes of european unity. many of these achievements were driven by your country. however, we still have a lot of work to do to make the eu grow together into a more coherent entity, for example in terms of democracy and fundamental rights. we must say loud and clear that the illiberal projects of some european governments are simply incompatible with the european project. we must be aware of what it means for the union as a whole when member states fall behind in the rankings of press freedom, when governments politicise the judiciary or when legitimate democratic aspirations for self-determination are confronted with state power and judicial harassment. this is europe today too, mr chancellor, and we urgently need the will and courage of countries like yours to reverse these anti-democratic and anti-european tendencies.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the year before the next european elections is also a good time to take stock, because in the last four years almost everything has been done wrong that could have been done wrong. the european union has been able to take a number of steps to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against the spread of the virus, and that the european union is able to take action in the fight against the spread of the virus. putin, who should have been sanctioned, is moving away from india, moving away from china. the europeans who said they would no longer buy cheap russian gas are buying from the americans who are doing the business, and the europeans are paying with a rate of inflation in the double digits. this is a wrong policy from top to bottom. i believe that there is a light at the end of the tunnel, that with the coming european elections the majority ratios in this house can change accordingly and we can guarantee a future for europe and not what you have done, which is permanent failure.
i have to say, madam president, welcome to the european parliament, mr chancellor, where a very large majority of pro-european colleagues work together on solutions for the citizens of europe. but to find the right solutions, we need to make the right diagnoses. the 24th of february, the day of the russian invasion of ukraine, changed a lot for us europeans. this is not just about ukraine, it is about our european way of life. what is being attacked here are european values: freedom, democracy, the rule of law. that is why it is so important that we, first of all, as the european union, stand together, act together, and help ukraine quickly and on a large scale. if we had given ukraine more support before 2022, this attack could have been prevented. the attack was planned because we were not active ourselves. that is why we are giving strong and rapid support to ukraine. second, russia has been preparing for this attack for a long time. this attack was not provoked by ukraine in any way, as russia claims. therefore, please actively combat russian propaganda. thirdly, we must question our old theses. the thesis of not provoking russia has proven irrelevant. it would be wrong not to offer ukraine a nato perspective. we should not be afraid of a weak russian federation, but of a strong russian federation. the victory of ukraine is in the fundamental interest of europe. victory in ukraine is the fastest way to peace in europe. and finally, because we are a union based on rules, two more requests. firstly, 2% of gross national income for defence, as we have agreed in each nato member state. and secondly, active support for the accession to schengen of the two countries which already fulfil all the conditions: bulgaria and my home country, romania. this is important for the citizens and for europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. what is the commission's role? yes, but you will be judged by your actions in germany. i can say that too little too late. you started the turnaround a year ago, and it's been recognized. but our bundeswehr is not any more capable of defending itself, in fact it is even less capable of defending itself. the same applies to the energy supply. the self-destructive dependence on russian gas is finally being reduced, but the turbo for self-sufficiency in decentralized energy has not yet been launched. instead, sustainably produced wood is being banned as an energy source. our innovative small and medium-sized enterprises and the craft sector have always been the backbone of our growth. instead of effectively defending technological openness, your government here in brussels is supporting the creation of ever new bureaucratic monsters, such as three different supply chain laws. as a dairy farmer and representative of agriculture and forestry, i have to say that you have been sleeping through the change of times in terms of security of supply. the disruption of supply chains shows us how important it is to have a reliable food production in germany and europe today. but instead of helping them to meet the challenges, and to recognise their outstanding social importance, the farmers and forestry workers' ideology is coupled with denial and mistrust in the form of ever-increasing bureaucracy, control and prohibition. mr chancellor, who will provide quality food in the future if the agricultural structures are ruined?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the your visit here to the european parliament is a reminder of the harmful effect of german migration policy on europe. their coalition government with merkel and the 'wir schaffen das' policy that was pursued led to more than a million illegal migrants in germany and many more across the european continent. unfortunately, that policy continues under your leadership. a policy which destroys european unity, which destroys european culture and which challenges the cooperation which is supposed to make europe strong. cooperation between independent and free nation states. we must therefore, as a country neighbouring germany, pray that reason will be restrained in the bundestag and that the naive, harmful and hopeless approach to migration, which has for decades characterised german and unfortunately also european policy, will be stopped.
madam president, commissioner, honourable chancellor, i just wrote my own points, you mentioned when speaking about geopolitical europe. it is integrated european defence. it is new free trade agreements, a larger europe, institutional changes, management of migration flows, and on the last place, ‘united in diversity’, our slogan. i just want to stay on this and to ask you, how do you understand ‘diversity’? whether diversity finishes within the borders of 27 member states, as national states and 23 official languages? i think it is not the way europe has to go. i want to cite yehudi menuhin who told ‘either europe will become europe of cultures or europe will not’. and cultures are much more than 27 and 23, and much more languages. and politics of linguistic genocide is taking place in many countries – especially in my country, latvia – by abolishing education in minority languages, by not even giving the possibility to learn native languages. it is not the way europe has to go.
the german chancellor. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way in which the commission has dealt with this matter. i am very grateful for this debate and for the many contributions. first of all, i would like to address iratxe. although technology was not on our side, my attempts to learn spanish in spain were enough to understand well-spoken speech. thank you for that. we have great challenges ahead of us. we must renew, modernise and move the european union forward. this is our future together. we need a geopolitical union - i said that and i also spoke about the principles that should guide us. i would therefore like to make a very specific comment on some of the points raised here. if we are in favour of a large europe, if we are in favour of enlargement, then at the very least this must be a reason for us to carry out the necessary reforms to keep europe functioning. and that is why - no matter how you have always stood on this - when you are faced with the question: how do we come to the decision that enlargement can only be successful if we also have qualified majorities in the decision-making processes of the european union, at least in the central questions. and that is even possible without amending the contract, if we agree to it by consensus. this is not the nomination of minorities by any majorities, but this is the way we become able to act together in the constant search for compromise - what is necessary and what i believe is a great feature of successful democracy. i think that the commission has a duty to make a statement on this matter, and i think that the commission has a duty to make a statement on this matter. and of course we will have to discuss many other issues if we succeed in adding more members, because of course this will also mean changes for all the members who are already in the european union today, because we will then have to extend solidarity to more countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and i want to say this explicitly and emphatically: it is really embarrassing that 20 years ago we opened up the possibility for the western balkan countries to become members of the european union, and that today we are still not there. the credibility of the european union depends on our success in this. that is why all the political families represented here should help, so that where we have made concrete agreements that make the accession process of all six western balkan states possible, we can also influence our own party family on the ground, for example, to agree to the necessary constitutional changes. that is my wish for the european people's party in the direction of north macedonia. it would be our common european concern that this should be possible. but we must work together to ensure that this is done in the knowledge that there can be no bilateralisation of accession processes - and we stand by that. this can be said very clearly to the citizens of the country. i want to work to bring about this reform and to do so in an orderly, common process. i believe that europe will only succeed if north, south, west and east understand each other as one, if we accept our differences but join forces to create a common force. i would like to repeat what i said in my speech: the world we live in soon, by the middle of this century, will have 10 billion people, and we'll still be just 450 to 500 million. if we do not come together, if we do not act together, then we will be irrelevant and we will not have a say in the future of the world. we want to get away from the old dominance of europe in previous centuries. but we want to be a good, fair partner in the world of the future, and for that we need our unity. it has been said rightly - that is what i want to say about the terrible russian attack on ukraine. and i want to make this very clear: this is a threat to peace and security in europe and the whole world. the fact is that the russian attack has heralded a turning point in the understanding of security in europe, the result of the policy of détente pursued by willy brandt and helmut schmidt and many others, namely that borders should no longer be pushed back by force. this is the understanding that was behind the csce and the osce and all the political processes. that was also the understanding in the nato-russia file. so russia has agreed on several occasions that this is the right way. and with the attack on ukraine, it's the imperialist vision that if you're stronger, you could just take a piece of the territory of the neighboring country. we cannot and will not accept that. and that is why we will support ukraine for as long as it needs to and can rely on it. i would like to say explicitly that i have listened with interest to one or another contribution from all political spectrums, and i have been happy to speak in german, but that has not always helped the matter. because one thing is quite clear, and this is perhaps the first thing to say in order to get the right perspective: germany is the biggest supporter of ukraine among the member states of the european union. we will remain so, and we are so because we want to support ukraine in its struggle for freedom and independence. germany is also a leader in the supply of arms. some people here have forgotten that because they are too far away, but that is the reality. and it will remain so. and when we decided to supply combat tanks in close cooperation and coordination with many others, for example in the field of tanks, many of those who had previously taken an active part in the debate were no longer to be found. this is the real reality. but it speaks for exactly what the majority of german citizens finds right: a cautious policy, always coordinated with allies and friends, no unilateral measures, but a decisive, balanced, responsible decision-making practice. this is what ukraine needs, and this is what germany is doing. i want to speak about energy policy, which has been discussed from various perspectives here, and i want to leave no doubt about the position of germany on this matter, which is unanimous and united in the government i lead. we are responsible for almost 2% - some people calculate a little differently - of the world's emissions, as has been pointed out from the right. and the question that some people ask is, why are we doing anything about climate change at all? my answer is: firstly, we are less than 2% of the world's population in relation to germany. and secondly, it's our economic strength, it's our engineers that we have in germany and europe, it's our companies and the technologies that we can develop that will help us to stop man-made climate change. i have to say this clearly. the citizens of the countries of south america, asia and africa are entitled to a standard of living and prosperity similar to those we have achieved in europe. and if we don't want to deny them that, then the only way that works for them and for us is if there are technologies that are as cheap as today's fossil-based industrial processes that make it possible to achieve that prosperity. and that's exactly what we do in germany. we've made a commitment to be carbon neutral by 2045. that means electrification and more electricity production, as was also mentioned here, that means hydrogen instead of coal, gas and oil, and that means from now until 2045 not 25 years. we must do this by investing now. and if germany, a country that because of its industrial strength, for example, and other countries are similarly producing and consuming 600 terawatt hours of electricity a year, can do that, by the end of this decade it will be a third more, and in the 1930s it will be 1,000 terawatt hours that we have to produce, all from renewable sources: wind from offshore wind farms, from onshore wind farms, from solar, from biomass and all the possibilities. and of course, with 24-hour electricity, which means that there has to be storage, that we need hydrogen-powered plants to deliver in the off-peak hours. all these decisions have to be made now. let us work together on this. because if we are honest, the parliament, the european commission, the german government and many others, the laws and regulations that we have built and crafted over the last decades and made with great love are not able to approve all these investments in time. many want to invest, the technologies are there. now we must have the courage to change the rules to help make this pace work. and for germany alone, that's five to six wind turbines a day, that's 40 football fields of solar panels a day, that's many 1,000 kilometers of power lines that need to be laid, that's a lot of offshore wind farms that all need to be approved piece by piece, much more than today. and that is why we must have the courage, as a commission, as a parliament, as a national government, to change laws so that we do not look at them all and say: what we have set out to do cannot succeed. but if we do that, we will have a great mobilization of innovation, we will have economic growth like europe has not had for a long time, and that will be good for the environment, but also good for jobs and prosperity in the future. i would like to say something about the question of common economic and financial policy. i think i have a good history to talk about, because the reconstruction fund, what we did during the corona crisis, that's what i tried to push and outline very substantially as germany's finance minister. and it was something very effective, because it was the message against a crisis that comes from such a threat as the pandemic all over germany and elsewhere: let's respond together with a solidarity action! and that we did that, it worked before the first funds were flowing, it strengthened the stability of the finances of all the member states so much that they could act and nobody had to leave out something that was important at that time. that's why everyone can rely on it: the german government will make all the necessary measures to show solidarity in such a crisis possible. but we also stand for stability in europe, including fiscal stability. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the consequence is that we do not want to plunge any member state into an austerity crisis. but that does not mean that we think that everything is possible in fiscal terms, that stability is not a concern and that it is not important to limit the debt. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. that will not work in the long run, and that is why it is important to strike the right balance on these issues. in this spirit, we shall succeed in formulating a common solution, even though there is still hard work ahead of us. but it is a contribution to solidarity that we must make. we have also been talking about the policy of détente, and i have already quoted willy brandt and helmut schmidt. but, mr. schirdewan, i'll tell you this: if you're moving through history, you have to stay accurate. the basis of the policy of détente pursued by willy brandt and helmut schmidt has always been a strong defence. we spent almost 4% of our economic output on defence at the time, because of the east-west conflict and the threat situation at the time. but if we say that in germany, like many others in europe, we want to spend 2% of our economic output to achieve the nato objectives, then this is exactly in line with the policy of the willy brandt and helmut schmidt tradition and is also the right response to a threat. because let's not forget and i want to say that again. let 's not forget: the russian attack is a threat because it says that the force of power is ready to override the law. and we cannot let that message go unheard. we can't pretend that's not the case. there is a clear message attached to the attack on ukraine. that's why it's our common task in nato to make sure that we make it clear to everyone that we are strong enough to defend ourselves, as a peaceful alliance that does not engage in aggression against others, that is a basis for us to return to that consensus in europe that should also exist worldwide: no revisionism, no violent shifting of borders. this is the basis of peace in the whole world. i am therefore looking forward to the partnership with the european parliament, to our future orientation and to the courage to move quickly. yes, there are sometimes situations in politics where you have to negotiate a lot, but you still have to get results. and yes, in a pluralistic world, in liberal democracies, in alliances of states, it is always the case that you have to come together. what we have in common is not something that comes over us like the holy spirit and then suddenly we all agree. this is achieved through democratic debate, by being aware and willing to come together with others in coalitions, among national communities, in parliaments, here too. and i ask that you all make the effort. the democratic debate, the debate, must lead to a result, and a good result for our common european future. (parliament adopted the resolution)
thank you very much, chancellor scholz, thank you dear colleagues. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. i share your vision of an enlarged and reformed european union, and a first step in this direction can be taken quickly by resolving in the council the unjustified deadlock on romania and bulgaria's accession to the schengen area. you have underlined the spirit of european solidarity expressed by robert schuman 73 years ago, which is based on facts and concrete actions, but for romanian citizens this spirit is extinguished every time they cross borders, although the european treaties guarantee their right to free movement, while romania has been meeting the criteria for accession to the schengen area for over 11 years. i therefore ask you, as your leader in the european council, to exert the necessary pressure on the minority of dubious opponents to immediately correct this discriminatory situation, which risks turning romanian citizens from the most pro-european just a few years ago to the most eurosceptic in the near future.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear colleagues, i know how do you feel when someone is taking the floor in the middle of the votes. this is why i prepared a very short 45—minute speech. when i started working on urban mobility, i was thinking that it is all about trains, trams, buses, cars, bikes and, yes, about e—scooters. it turns out to be all about rights. the right of every person with disability in europe to use urban mobility networks. every mother with a baby carriage to use a good infrastructure prepared for her. it is all about those kids who are willing to ride a bike on a safe bike lane far from cars, trucks and buses. so if i have to say, yes, it is all about those who are willing to drive car as well. we should not treat them as criminals. let us not forget that those who are living in other most rural areas have no alternative. they have to move somehow and the car is their only solution. if i have to wrap up, there is a reason that the word ‘balance’ has a divine region. it is exactly in the middle between material and spiritual. in our days this means: yes, let’s adopt and encourage people to use new technologies, new modes of transport, but not turn our backs to modes of transport who serve us faithfully for decades.
rapporteur. – madam president, sorry colleagues, i don’t know how you feel, so i test your patience. european security has never been more fragile since the end of the second world war. russia’s full-scale war against ukraine is a turning point in the history of our continent. there is no other way for europe than to be prepared, both mentally and physically, to defend its people, economy, our way of life. this requires more adequate funding for defence. in the light of the ongoing war, we have primarily and rightly focused on the heavy iron and ammunition that ukraine needs to win this war. but there is also another dimension where the eu must deliver: new and critical technologies that are needed for our security and defence. the report we will be voting shortly comes as a reply to the commission’s roadmap of critical technologies for security and defence. with this report, we stress the need for europe to become more competitive in the field of new and disruptive technologies and to combine the best knowledge and practices of private sector, academia and government. we also emphasise the importance of close cooperation with like-minded partners globally. smes and startups have an important role to play in this innovation. more and better investment tools are needed for the innovation to take place. finally, we cannot afford more defence with less money. today, 1% of the mff dedicated for security and defence is not enough. dear colleagues, i kindly ask you to support this report with your vote.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the mediterranean is a european sea for half its length. europe cannot remain passive any longer in the face of the continuing regressions in this ecologically fragile area. these declines are further exacerbated by the warming climate to which the mediterranean is particularly vulnerable. climate scientists estimate that its impact will be 20% stronger than elsewhere in europe. this will quickly add to the problems facing the european citizens living there: fires, devastating storms, dwindling water resources, loss of biodiversity. on the other hand, human activities have an increasing impact on the sea, for example the increase in international maritime traffic passing through the sea, bringing air pollution and discharges to the sea, and also the increase in coastal populations, such as tourist attendance. no efficiency will be possible without the involvement of european added value. no one can claim to be able to provide solutions to these problems on their own, which must be tackled collectively. europe has many assets which give it a major responsibility in managing this area. it has the technical expertise of multiple actors. it has the administrative competence to steer a cooperation already foreshadowed by various programmes. it has the experience of macro-regional strategies already developed elsewhere, and it has, in addition to its technical and administrative capacity, an incomparably stronger financial capacity than that of other countries, both in the east and in the south. if the european union is committed to its responsibility for the northern part of the mediterranean basin, it will be a driving force for the countries and regions of the south and east. if it remains passive any longer, the situation will continue to deteriorate and europe will then bear the responsibility for not having exercised its capacity to act. this is the message that the european parliament is sending today with this report, which calls for the establishment of a macro-regional strategy for the mediterranean. in conclusion, i would like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs who have all contributed to this report.
rapporteur. – madam president, i understand it is the last vote, so i try to be as brief as possible. i stand before you as the rapporteur for the eu standardisation strategy in the imco committee to present my report on standardisation, a critical component in achieving the goals of our internal market. i am pleased to observe that standardisation is increasingly at the core of the eu’s digital and industrial strategy, acknowledging its strategic importance in shaping our future. my report aims to shed light on the strengths and weaknesses of the eu standardisation system and on recommendations to enhance its effectiveness. one of the key issues highlighted in the report is the need to clarify the division of responsibilities between the european commission and the standardisation organisations. another critical aspect is the necessity for international cooperation in standardisation. as global trade dynamics shift and become more complex, we must advocate for inclusive, like-minded approaches to standardisation at the international level. our commitment to a market-driven and voluntary process behind the standards is crucial in promoting a balanced global system. to conclude, i call upon all members of the european parliament to join me in promoting a more robust, forward-looking and inclusive standardisation strategy for the eu.
that concludes the vote. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments)
the minutes of yesterday’s sitting and texts adopted are available. are there any comments? that is not the case, so the minutes are approved.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the following reports: - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2021, section iii – commission and executive agencies [com(2022)0323 - c9-0227/2022- 2022/2081(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteurs: jeroen lenaers and monika hohlmeier (a9-0101/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2021, section i – european parliament [com(2022)0323 - c9-0228/2022- 2022/2082(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: isabel garcía muñoz (a9-0086/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2021, section ii – european council and council [com(2022)0323 - c9-0229/2022- 2022/2083(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: mikuláš peksa (a9-0085/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2021, section iv – court of justice of the european union [com(2022)0323 - c9-0230/2022- 2022/2084(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: mikuláš peksa (a9-0073/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2021, section v – court of auditors [com(2022)0323 - c9-0231/2022- 2022/2085(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: mikuláš peksa (a9-0081/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2021, section vi – european economic and social committee [com(2022)0323 - c9-0232/2022- 2022/2086(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: mikuláš peksa (a9-0074/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2021, section vii – committee of the regions [com(2022)0323 - c9-0233/2022- 2022/2087(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: mikuláš peksa (a9-0080/2023) - discharge 2021: eu general budget - european ombudsman discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2021, section viii – european ombudsman [com(2022)0323 - c9-0234/2022- 2022/2088(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: mikuláš peksa (a9-0067/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2021, section ix – european data protection supervisor [com(2022)0323 - c9-0235/2022- 2022/2089(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: mikuláš peksa (a9-0070/2023)- report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2021, section x – european external action service [com(2022)0323 - c9-0236/2022- 2022/2090(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: mikuláš peksa (a9-0088/2023)- report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european public prosecutor’s office for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0237/2022 - 2022/2091(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: mikuláš peksa (a9-0079/2023)- report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0241/2022- 2022/2095(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: olivier chastel (a9-0125/2023)- report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound) for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0265/2022- 2022/2119(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: olivier chastel (a9-0109/2023)- report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0269/2022- 2022/2123(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: ramona strugariu (a9-0141/2023)- report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0256/2022- 2022/2110(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: ramona strugariu (a9-0107/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0248/2022- 2022/2102(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: katalin cseh (a9-0143/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha) for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0264/2022- 2022/2118(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: alin mituța (a9-0132/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0240/2022- 2022/2094(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: olivier chastel (a9-0104/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0255/2022- 2022/2109(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: katalin cseh (a9-0106/2023)- report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for criminal justice cooperation (eurojust) for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0266/2022- 2022/2120(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: ramona strugariu (a9-0122/2023) -report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0262/2022- 2022/2116(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: alin mituța (a9-0135/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0257/2022- 2022/2111(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: ilana cicurel (a9-0113/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union aviation safety agency for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0243/2022- 2022/2097(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: olivier chastel (a9-0098/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0250/2022- 2022/2104(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: katalin cseh (a9-0131/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0246/2022- 2022/2100(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: katalin cseh (a9-0146/2023)- report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of enisa (european union agency for cybersecurity) for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0258/2022- 2022/2112(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: katalin cseh (a9-0115/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for railways for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0259/2022- 2022/2113(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: olivier chastel (a9-0100/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for law enforcement training (cepol) for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0242/2022- 2022/2096(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: ramona strugariu (a9-0102/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european border and coast guard agency for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0270/2022- 2022/2124(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: ramona strugariu (a9-0142/2023)- report ondischarge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for the space programme (before 12.5.2021 the european gnss agency) for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0268/2022- 2022/2122(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: katalin cseh (a9-0116/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0249/2022- 2022/2103(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: ilana cicurel (a9-0112/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0247/2022- 2022/2101(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: katalin cseh (a9-0133/2023)- report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0260/2022- 2022/2114(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: katalin cseh (a9-0126/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation (europol) for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0267/2022- 2022/2121(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: ramona strugariu (a9-0138/2023)- report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0251/2022- 2022/2105(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: olivier chastel (a9-0121/2023)- report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0245/2022- 2022/2099(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: alin mituța (a9-0110/2023)- report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0252/2022- 2022/2106(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: gilles boyer (a9-0103/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0261/2022- 2022/2115(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: gilles boyer (a9-0137/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0238/2022- 2022/2092(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: katalin cseh (a9-0111/2023)- report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for support for berec (berec office) for the financial year [com(2022)0323 - c9-0239/2022- 2022/2093(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: katalin cseh (a9-0129/2023)- report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0253/2022- 2022/2107(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: katalin cseh (a9-0130/2023)- report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office (now the european union agency for asylum) for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0244/2022- 2022/2098(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: ramona strugariu (a9-0123/2023)- report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eu-lisa) for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0263/2022- 2022/2117(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: ramona strugariu (a9-0105/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0275/2022- 2022/2129(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: ryszard czarnecki (a9-0092/2023)- report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the single european sky atm research 3 joint undertaking (before 30.11.2021 the sesar joint undertaking) for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0278/2022- 2022/2132(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: ryszard czarnecki (a9-0118/2023)- report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the clean aviation joint undertaking (before 30.11.2021 the clean sky 2 joint undertaking) for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0272/2022- 2022/2126(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: joachim stanisław brudziński (a9-0078/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the circular bio-based europe joint undertaking (before 30.11.2021 the bio-based industries joint undertaking) for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0271/2022- 2022/2125(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: joachim stanisław brudziński (a9-0093/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the innovative health initiative joint undertaking (before 30.11.2021 the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking) for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0277/2022- 2022/2131(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: ryszard czarnecki (a9-0069/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the clean hydrogen joint undertaking (before 30.11.2021 the fuel cells and hydrogen 2 joint undertaking) for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0276/2022- 2022/2130(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: ryszard czarnecki (a9-0083/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the europe’s rail joint undertaking (before 30.11.2021 the shift2rail joint undertaking) for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0279/2022- 2022/2133(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: ryszard czarnecki (a9-0090/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the key digital technologies joint undertaking (before 30.11.2021 the ecsel joint undertaking) for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0273/2022- 2022/2127(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: ryszard czarnecki (a9-0082/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european high performance computing joint undertaking for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0274/2022- 2022/2128(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: ryszard czarnecki (a9-0089/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0321 - c9-0281/2022- 2022/2135(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: josé manuel fernandes (a9-0114/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2021: performance, financial management and control [com(2022)0323 - c9-0280/2022- 2022/2134(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: olivier chastel (a9-0144/2023) - report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european labour authority for the financial year 2021 [com(2022)0323 - c9-0254/2022- 2022/2108(dec)] - committee on budgetary control. rapporteur: alin mituța (a9-0117/2023)
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i should like to thank mr jeroen lenaers, who will speak after me, but, madam president, since you have just announced it at the time of the vote, i cannot know that we will start before then. i would also like to thank my shadow rapporteurs, with whom we have had a very good cooperation. i would like to thank the european court of auditors and its members, mr tony murphy and mr jan gregor, who are both here. i would like to thank you very much for the annual report and the special report and for the excellent cooperation. i would like to thank the commission, commissioner, and you too. at the beginning, cooperation was a bit bumpy in a few dgs, but i thank dg budg for its support in promoting cooperation. the greatest successes in relief that we have been able to achieve, i believe, lie in four areas. firstly, we want a digitisation drive, and the commission has promised to support it. we urgently need to improve interoperability, not only for the sake of transparency and traceability, but also to further reduce red tape, speed up processes and get information faster than it has been possible to do so so far. so we don't just need arachne, because it's a huge tool, but it doesn't add much value; we need real interoperable systems. secondly, the methodology for partial payments was one of the key requirements in the arf. first there was none, then there was one, and then there is now a quantification. i appreciate the speed of the work. i am also grateful that there is now an interactive platform with information on projects that have already been implemented or are in the process of being implemented, and also information on the final beneficiaries, which will obviously be available to everyone. we are now receiving information on the 100 largest recipients not just in a sub-area but for the entire arf per member state and we will receive it published accordingly. these have been wonderful achievements indeed for us. but there are still some problems. first, we still have no information on how much money actually entered the real economy. i've been asking around in spain. i was promised that we would get the data; i still haven't gotten any. that means we still have no information about: how much money did the project developers or those who make projects actually receive, and how much money did actually get to the people? secondly, we have to realize that the arf is starting off rather slowly. it was originally intended as a quick emergency instrument, but in reality implementation is being delayed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we really want to boost the economy, boost jobs, boost recovery, then the consequence is that the projects must be realised, and they must also have real added value and function. thirdly, we are currently seeing projects originally transferred from cohesion to the arf, the corona reconstruction fund. the corona reconstruction fund is now putting projects back into cohesion. so we have a lively shift station of different projects. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have the impression that, in the implementation of the programme, the ambition and the outward appearance of some of them were perhaps greater than the actual reality. so there's a lot to do. but i would like to thank all those involved for the good cooperation.
rapporteur. – madam president, i always believe in ladies first, so i gave monica the opportunity to speak before me. now, thank you very much, and i think, really, this discharge procedure is one of the most important procedures we do in the house because in order to maintain citizens trust in the work we do, we need to make sure that the budget is spent correctly. this house has a great responsibility to scrutinise that spending. i would really like to thank the co-rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs, the secretariat and all colleagues who took part in this work; we had an excellent cooperation. i would also like to express my gratitude to the work of the european court of auditors, which is an indispensable partner in the work that we do. this discharge focuses on the year 2021, and we have observed a concerning increase in the error rate for expenditure, which now stands at 3 %, as reported by the court of auditors. this is well above the acceptable limit of 2 %. in fact, for the majority of reimbursement-based expenditures, the error rate reaches an alarming 4.7 % and we must take immediate action to prevent this rate from growing even further in the upcoming years. and we are urging the commission to launch additional initiatives to address this. the different methodologies used by the commission and the court of auditors when calculating the risk at payment or the error rate also complicates the comparability, it makes it difficult to compare the two numbers. this further adds confusion because the commission, whenever the court of auditors presents an error rate which is positive, we use this in our communications, we accept it, whenever there is an error rate presented which is unfavourable to the commission, the methodology is disputed. this is an approach which is not fair and we should also change that in order to make it all a bit more logical. even more alarming in that sense is the lack of responsibility and the failure to fully recognise shortcomings in the methodology with regards to climate spending. the court calculated that spending on climate action has been overstated by eur 72 billion for the 2014–2020 period, and the commission refuses to fully acknowledge it – commissioner timmermans came to a cont meeting and concluded by saying that we should agree to disagree on this. sorry, but no, we cannot agree to disagree on overstating eur 72 billion of climate spending. we need to accept the conclusions of the court on this and work to address this issue. another concern that we are addressing involves the slow absorption of funds and the rate of commitment to implementation, which could lead to increased risk towards the end of the budgetary period and to resolve these issues, we need to continue to bolster the administrative capacity of the member states and the european commission. now, we have in this discharge, really emphasised the significance of the union budget’s performance, which includes utilising appropriate indicators, simplifying rules and procedures and implementing better-targeted controls. transparency is a key element of a resolution and we emphasise the importance of transparent operations across the board, including for ngo and intermediaries in terms of their funding and ownership. and we also request that the commission establish an effective mechanism to ensure that ngo activities align with eu values. we have also underscored the importance of incorporating new technologies like edes and arachne and developing a unified information and monitoring system provided by the commission to allow for the electronic recording and storage of data of union funding recipients, including their beneficial ownerships, in order to help us prevent any misuse of the budget. we also recognise the benefits and lessons learned through the use of new technologies, such as satellite controls and agricultural spending, for instance. we are convinced that these advancements will play a crucial role in better safeguarding our budget. now, to wrap up on a very serious note, we remain deeply concerned – and this is also reflected in the resolution – about the rule of law situation in several member states, which not only undermines democracy but also results in substantial risks for the union budget. we expect all member states to adhere to democracy and the rule of law in order to receive european funds. and we particularly highlight the concerning situation in hungary, where corruption and an opaque public procurement system must be addressed through reforms within the context of the conditionality mechanism. i am grateful for the level of unity we achieved during our work in the committee, and i look forward to listening to all the contributions of our colleagues.
i am sorry to have to announce a quick suspension in the chamber because there is a technical problem linked to a difficulty in translating some languages, so i ask you to be patient and to stall for a few minutes just to solve this technical problem. (the sitting was suspended at 1.19 p.m. for technical reasons)
the court is in session. the agenda includes the continuation of the joint discussion 'discharge 2021' on the following reports: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary discipline and the budgetary discipline of the union. the rapporteur: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary discipline and the budgetary discipline of the union. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary discipline and the budgetary discipline of the union. the rapporteur: the commission has also received a letter from the president of the european parliament, mr mikuláš peksa (a9-0085/2023) - report on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2021, section iv court of justice of the european union (com (2022) 0323 - c9-0230/2022- 2022/2084 (dec)) - committee on budgetary control. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary discipline and the budgetary discipline of the union. the rapporteur: the commission has also received a letter from the president of the european parliament, mr mikuláš peksa (a9-0081/2023) - report on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2021, section vi european economic and social committee (com (2022) 0323 - c9-0232/2022- 2022/2086 (dec)) - committee on budgetary control. the rapporteur: the commission has also received a letter from the president of the european parliament, mr mikuláš peksa (a9-0074/2023) - report on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2021, section vii committee of the regions (com (2022) 0323 - c9-0233/2022- 2022/2087 (dec)) - committee on budgetary control. the rapporteur: the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states concerning the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the 'competent authority's' report. the rapporteur: the commission has also received a letter from the president of the european parliament, mr pérez de cuéllar, in which he stated that the commission had not yet received the draft budget for the financial year 2020 and that the draft budget for the financial year 2020 was not yet ready. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary discipline and the budgetary discipline of the union. the rapporteur: the commission has also received a letter from the president of the european parliament, mr pérez de cuéllar, in which he states that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the discharge to be given to the european public prosecutor's office for the financial year 2021. the rapporteur: the commission has also received a letter from the president of the european parliament, mr pisani, in which he states that the commission is considering the possibility of granting discharge to the european parliament in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2021. the rapporteur: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary authority's budgetary controls. the rapporteur: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary authority's budgetary controls. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary procedure, in particular by means of the annual report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2021 and the annual report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2021 (com (2022) 0323 - c9-0256/2022- 2022/2110 (dec)) and the annual report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2021 (com (2022) 0323 - c9-0256/2022- 2022/2110 (dec)). the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary procedure, in particular by ensuring that the budgetary authority is able to take account of the budgetary impact of the budgetary procedure. the rapporteur: the commission has also received a letter from the president of the european parliament, mr c. van den broek, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, stating that the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2012 has been completed. the rapporteur: the commission has also received a letter from the president of the european parliament, mr alin mituța (a9-0132/2023) - report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2021 (com (2022) 0323 - c9-0240/2022- 2022/2094 (dec)) - committee on budgetary control. the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015 (oj c 180, 1.7.2014, p. the commission has also received a letter from the president of the european parliament, mr c. van den broek, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, stating that the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2021 has been completed. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary procedure, in particular by ensuring that the budgetary authority is able to take account of the budgetary impact of the union's actions and the impact of the union's actions on the budget. the rapporteur: the commission has also received a letter from the president of the european parliament, mr alin mituța (a9-0135/2023) - report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2021 (com (2022) 0323 - c9-0257/2022- 2022/2111 (dec)) - committee on budgetary control. the rapporteur: the commission has also received a letter from the president of the european parliament, mr ilana cicurel (a9-0113/2023) - report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european union aviation safety agency for the financial year 2021 (com (2022) 0323 - c9-0243/2022- 2022/2097 (dec)) - committee on budgetary control. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary authority's budgetary controls. the commission has also received a request from the european parliament and the council to amend the draft budget for the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) in order to include the new financial perspective for the agency. the rapporteur: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary authority's budgetary controls. the rapporteur: the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (hereinafter 'the agency') and that the commission submit a report to the european parliament and the council on the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2021 (com (202) 0323 - c9-0259/2022- 2022/2113 (dec)) (a9-0115/2023). the rapporteur: the commission has also proposed that the court of auditors should be consulted on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2021 and on the implementation of the budget for the following financial year. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary procedure, in particular by ensuring that the budgetary authority is able to implement the budget in a timely manner. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary discipline and the budgetary discipline of the union. the commission has also decided to extend the deadline for the submission of the draft amending budget to 31 december 2020 by a further two months. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary procedure, in particular by ensuring that the budgetary authority is able to take account of the budgetary impact of the budgetary procedure. the commission has also received a request from the european parliament and the council to amend the draft budget for the financial year 2020 in order to take account of the new budgetary procedure. the commission has also received a letter from the president of the european parliament, mr c. van den broek, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, stating that the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2021 has been completed. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary procedure, including the implementation of the budgetary procedure, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the budgetary procedure. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary authority's budget for the financial year 2021 and will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget. the rapporteur: the commission has also received comments from the european parliament and the council on the draft budget for the financial year 2020, which is intended to cover the implementation of the budget for the european union for the financial year 2020, and from the european parliament and the council on the draft budget for the european union for the financial year 2020, which is intended to cover the implementation of the budget for the european union for the financial year 2020. the rapporteur: the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states concerning the lack of transparency in the implementation of the budget. the rapporteur: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary authority's budgetary controls, in particular in the light of the progress made in the implementation of the budgetary authority's budgetary controls. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary authority's budgetary controls. the commission has also received a request from the european parliament and the council to amend the draft budget for the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) for the financial year 2021 in order to take account of the new budgetary procedure. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary authority's budgetary controls, in particular by ensuring that the budgetary authority is able to monitor the implementation of the budgetary authority's budgetary controls. the rapporteur: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary discipline and the budgetary discipline of the union's institutions and bodies. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's financial instruments and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's financial instruments. the rapporteur: the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall report to the european parliament and the council on the implementation of this decision. the rapporteur: the commission has also received comments from the european parliament and the council on the draft amending budget for the european schools for the financial year 2018 which the council adopted on 16 december 2018. the rapporteur: the commission has also received comments from the european parliament and the council on the draft amending budget for the european schools for the financial year 2018 which the council adopted on 16 december 2018. the joint undertaking will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments under the joint undertaking and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments under the joint undertaking. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. the rapporteur: the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall report to the european parliament and the council on the implementation of this decision. the rapporteur: the commission has also received comments from the european parliament and the council on the draft amending budget for the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) for the financial year 2020 (com (202) 036). the rapporteur: the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall report to the european parliament and the council on the implementation of this decision. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's financial instruments and the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance, including the union's macro-financial assistance, in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is consistent with the union's macro-financial assistance. the rapporteur: the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states concerning the lack of transparency in the implementation of the budget. the rapporteur: josé manuel fernandes (a9-0114/2023) - report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2021: the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the level of the compensation for the costs of the measures. the rapporteur: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and the implementation of the budgetary authority's budgetary procedures, in particular by means of the annual report on the implementation of the budget. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive.
rapporteur. – madam president, our european decentralised agencies are an essential part of the european framework for justice and home affairs. whether we talk about police training, judicial or police cooperation, support for asylum, border and coast guards, protection of fundamental rights, management of large—scale it projects or the fight against drug trafficking, their results stand proof of the added value that working together brings to our lives as european citizens. in spite of the pandemic still affecting their work in 2021, the european justice and home affairs agencies have shown great adaptability and resilience, ensuring continuity of operations and in many cases surpassing their initial goals: eu-lisa maintained the availability of its systems in over 99% of the time, the fundamental rights agency surpassed its targets for delivered publications, while cepol successfully moved some of its activities online, engaging even more people in its trainings. our agencies must set an example of transparency, accountability, responsibility and good governance. while we continue to ask our agencies to optimise their work, we also need to provide them with the adequate funding and human resources that they need. such resources should not be allocated only to the goal of implementing their operational mandate, but also great attention should be paid to how we allocate resources on the administrative side. procurement still represents the area that generates the largest volume of irregularities. agencies need good procurement officers hired on the appropriate grade, reflecting their responsibilities. now about a few sensitive issues. frontex, the largest of the eu decentralised agencies, which is unique in its mandate as to the operations of its standing corps. the agency has been going through a very difficult period caused by serious mismanagement at its very top last year. the report published by olaf concerning the managerial activity of the previous executive director increased the shock wave initially created by journalists’ reports of violations of human rights and mismanagement in the agency. nevertheless, after its resignation, its valuable and consistent presence mattered a lot in support during the war at our borders, and i would like to commend that. frontex has now a new executive director who has a lot to deliver. the mandate of the agency is clear and sets out a strong framework to be used for the protection of our external borders. we emphasised this when we gave him our support and we shall offer this support towards the clean implementation of this mandate. the new director has a task to continue the good work of the interim management to fundamentally challenge and change the previous organisational culture in the agency, to respect and show commitment to upholding fundamental rights and to fully regain citizens’ trust in the agency. this will take time, but it is worth a fresh start. as for the euaa, our asylum support agency, we keep a close eye on the developments concerning the olaf investigation and shall analyse its results once it becomes available. all recruitment, especially that in case of senior staff, must be conducted with utmost responsibility and in full compliance with eu rules. through the discharge reports that i am rapporteur for in this cycle, the aim was to acknowledge effort and good results while also clearly stating areas of improvement. we need to further strengthen our coordinated european response to the main challenges we are faced with. our agencies, together with the other institutions, are our business card for europe. pandemic, war, economic hardship, energy crisis, climate emergency – we are stronger if we can face them all better and united. long live european union.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, dear colleagues, dear commission, the european parliament has, according to the treaty of the european union, the duty to exercise the budgetary control over all the eu institutions. in the case of the european commission’s discharge, we are asked to vote in blind because even to this date, after two years, nobody in the european parliament has seen the full and unredacted versions of the contracts signed by ursula von der leyen with moderna and pfizer-biontech. here is how the contract with moderna was disclosed to us, to the public and to the media. (the speaker held up a collection of papers)this is simply unacceptable! the eu court of auditors reported that through these contracts, ursula von der leyen has committed to purchase 4.6 billion doses of injections for a total cost of eur 71 billion. ursula von der leyen could have given eur 150 for every person in the eu to help recover after the pandemic and it would have been more effective than purchasing worthless injections. ursula von der leyen knew from the beginning that these injections are ineffective since she committed to purchase over ten doses of injections for every person in the eu, while she claimed that, with one such injection, a person will receive immunity from covid. in any private company, a leading manager who signed such an abusive contract would have been fired effective immediately without seeing the full and unredacted versions of these contracts, no responsible mep who cares about the people and their money can vote for the discharge of the european commission. for this reason, i am asking all of you to vote against.
madam president, they call it the istanbul convention; it should have been about women in biology, not gender ideology. we as a society have the duty to prevent and combat any kind of violence against women. but what is a woman? apparently, this parliament cannot define the term anymore. a woman, regardless of the age, is not a matter of feeling or the decision of a political majority, nor a social construct, as this convention claims, but an ontological, biological and genetical reality that is clearly different than a man. acknowledging even in the law that a man who can identify as a woman is a woman is simply absurd and actually the biggest threat to women. a man can claim that he identifies as a car, but that doesn’t mean that in a sane society we give that person a licence plate instead of an id card. this gender ideology is clearly undermining womankind and is a dream come true for male perverts who can claim now that they identify as women and are allowed to serve sentences in female prisons where in some instances they left some pregnant. to protect women against any kind of violence and abuse, we need to define first their identity, which is not a matter of feeling, but a matter of ontological, biological and genetical fact, which is different than that of a man. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue—card question)
blue-card answer. – well, with all due respect, dear colleague, you cannot identify what the woman is. well, if you on the so-called left side cannot identify what a woman is, how you can pass laws to protect you? you were mentioning the istanbul convention. let me tell you what the istanbul convention says in article 38 on female genital mutilation, which states ‘performing any kind of mutilation of the whole or any part of a woman’s labia majora, labia minor or clitoris’. so i’m asking you, a man who claims or pretends to be a woman, how can that man be protected by this convention? (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too express my solidarity and sympathy with the tragedy that the serbian people have suffered in recent days. turning to political matters, i think it is extremely important that we look at the truth as it is and tell the people in belgrade that they must stop their double-talk about serbia's european path. there can be no tolerance for what moscow is doing now in relation to the european union and they have an obligation to demonstrate by deeds that they understand what this war that putin has unleashed against the values that are the basis of the european union means. we need clear messages, immediate involvement and action from belgrade, not outdated cosmetics that no one believes anymore.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i want to thank you for this debate today and the upcoming 2023 enlargement package will be, of course, another opportunity to assess the progress that kosovo has made. because we are clear and we are committed that eu reforms are necessary and will bring prosperity, stability and peace to kosovo and also to the wider region. so i count on the support of the european parliament to echo these messages and to remain engaged with kosovo and in kosovo. more than ever, the eu needs to deliver on these commitments and make the eu perspective for kosovo a reality.
in writing. the ohrid summit will have been another blow to the endless negotiations between serbia and kosovo. meanwhile, the situation of kosovo serbs continues to deteriorate, and the question of their political representation is being raised with great urgency, while pristina still refuses to implement one of the fundamental conditions of the 2013 brussels agreement, namely the creation of a community of serb municipalities. in turn, the boycott of local elections illustrates the depth of the gulf between the two communities. the european union is no more clever when it insists, loudly and insistently, on serbia's alignment with its foreign policy - that is, in this case, with regard to russia - or when it attempts, more or less explicitly, to impose on serbia the recognition of its former province as a condition for possible membership. is it to reignite the balkan powder keg? in any case, the european strategy in the region lacks both common sense and results and is a striking illustration of brussels' imperiousness in diplomatic matters.
in writing. the eu recently approved an agreement to lift the visa requirement for kosovo citizens, which will enter into force by 1 january 2024. the european parliament has been following the social and political developments in kosovo. kosovo remains committed to moving forward towards europe and, in turn, the eu institutions are committed to supporting kosovo. it is important that eu member states which have not yet recognised kosovo as a sovereign state do so without delay. it is positive that kosovo shares the eu's foreign and security policy, in particular by strongly condemning russia's war of aggression against ukraine and the implementation of the eu's restrictive measures against russia and belarus, and by reaffirming its commitment to eu integration.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioners, i am happy to be able to address you on the day we mark the start of the european year of skills. i thank the european parliament, the commission and all those involved for the agreement we have reached on this decision. our economy is changing at a breath-taking pace. for example, artificial intelligence will reshape the labour market as we know it. just like when we made other technical leaps in the past, the nature of jobs will change fundamentally. at the same time, our economy and society will undergo another significant transition: the green transition. this means that we will change our modus and production profoundly to be more sustainable and based on fossil-free, rather than fossil energy, sources. in this context, the european year of skills shines a much-deserved light on the needs of upskilling and reskilling workers. because we are seeing a rapid change in the needs of the labour market with the green and digital transitions and we need to adapt to it. therefore, we need to join forces and intensify our efforts to reskill and upskill workers for the green transition and to boost the competitiveness of the european companies. let me give you one example: right now, northern sweden’s economy is booming, thanks to industrial initiatives that contribute to the green and digital transition. there is mining for critical raw materials, data centres and production of fossil-free steel. accordingly, companies in the region will need to hire more than 100 000 persons in the coming years. although the main demand is for employers with technical skills, a growing population will also mean a higher demand for doctors, nurses and teachers. other regions across the continent face similar situations, which presents both opportunities and challenges. but to put it simply, europe’s success in a fast-changing global economy requires that our citizens have the right skills. that is why the council welcomes and supports the european year of skills initiative. there is a consensus among member states that the european year of skills is an opportunity to encourage and foster the broadest possible participation in upskilling and reskilling. it is important that activities developed under the european year of skills pay particular attention to groups that are either underrepresented in the labour market or that encounter particular challenges to enter into it in the first place. among those underrepresented groups, i would like to mention women and young people, especially those not in employment, education or training. i am very pleased that the member states have started to plan activities under the year of skills and some already have measures in place. this is an excellent opportunity to share best practices among member states and to improve how to communicate to citizens how vital reskilling and upskilling is for our future. to emphasise this, the swedish presidency has put forward conclusions on skills and competences for the green transition, which has been approved by the council. in this context, member states are invited to take actions to address labour shortages in key sectors for the green transition and the growing demand for technical skills in this area at the same time. because the green transition can only be a success if the eu has the skilled workforce for it, there is no way we can achieve a paradigm shift towards a modern, resource-efficient and competitive economy without an upskilled and reskilled european workforce. last week, matching skills with the demands of the labour market was also addressed in the informal ministerial meeting of employment ministers in stockholm, which the commissioner schmit also attended. these discussions were very fruitful and show that skills are, and will be, high on the political agenda. last but not least, i would like to stress that promoting a mindset of upskilling and reskilling is a long-term objective. it is also a task for a wide range of actors: government authorities at all levels, social partners, individual companies, academia and civil society organisations. it is also an individual responsibility of each and every citizen. improving the skills of the workforce will require teamwork. on this note, i would like to thank you so much for your attention. i am looking forward to the debate.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, let me first express the commission’s gratitude to your parliament, because your intensive work has produced a valuable report for which i warmly thank rapporteur loucas fourlas and also employment committee chair dragoş pîslaru. the agreement you reached with the council lays the ground for a successful and impactful european year of skills, which we are launching today. today on the 9th of may, europe day. europe needs skills more than ever. investing in skills makes as much business sense as it does social sense. some say that skills are the new gold. skills are indeed a key enabling factor for successful green and digital transitions and for the competitiveness and resilience of our social market economy. and i can just echo what the representative of the swedish presidency has now already mentioned. labour ministers a few days ago in stockholm had a very extensive debate and discussion on the year of skills and on the necessity, really, to promote very active skills policies in order to create new opportunities for everybody, but also in order to strengthen europe’s competitiveness. skills help people navigate an ever-changing labour market and reap the opportunities that technological progress and the digital and green transitions offer. and we are very grateful to the parliament, as we are to the swedish presidency of the council for their support and for keeping the objectives of the year streamlined. the main objective of the year is clear. we have to instil a culture of upskilling and reskilling, which is needed for quality jobs, in particular for young people not in education, employment or training, but also for all other vulnerable groups. for those who do not benefit from an inclusive labour market, the best way to be included in the labour market is to invest in skills and to support these vulnerable groups – be they young, be they long—term unemployed, be they a bit less young, be they women and especially also be they people with a disability, who still are quite discriminated on the labour market. against the current background of labour and skills shortages, if we want to preserve and strengthen our social model, we need to increase our investments in skills with the aim of creating quality jobs, jobs with good remuneration and proper working conditions and social protection. skills are at the heart of our political and legislative agenda. they are a key component of important eu measures and proposals from the european social fund plus and the recovery and resilience facility, to repower, the fit for 55 package, the european green deal industrial plan and the net-zero package. during the year, other key proposals, such as a new learning mobility framework, a talent pool to facilitate international recruitment or an initiative on quality traineeships will equally contribute to the objectives of the year. at the same time, the year of skills is very much about the shift from policy to reality. now is the time to see the comprehensive set of eu measures and financing available for skills delivered in practice. and it is also very important that skills are recognised not only between eu member states and third countries but also inside the eu. i think here some more efforts are indispensable. since the 2020 european skills agenda, we have been calling for a skills revolution in europe that shifts the mindset towards continuous investment in skills development by both the employers and the workers. i must also say that our appeals have been quite fruitful. appeals to companies, to all kinds of stakeholders, to unions, to regions. because the skills pact, which has the intention to bring together all these stakeholders coming from the different economic ecosystems, now gathers more than 1 000 participants. and every month, we have new applicants for the skills pact with very clear objectives to increase the reskilling efforts. the ambition, our ambition, our common ambition is very clear. eu leaders have welcomed ambitious skills targets. by 2030, 60% of adults should take part in training every year. this means we have a long way to go as this figure stands at a bit less than 40% currently and 40% is an average for the european union. there are a few countries well above and there are also still countries below. to achieve this target, we are offering high levels of funding for upskilling and reskilling, in particular through the european social fund plus, the recovery and resilience facility and the just transition fund. the 2023 european year of skills should be a turning point in helping us meet our ambitious social targets. this is why the work on the ground is key at national and regional levels, but also we have to be much more innovative. i think skilling, reskilling, upskilling people should really take all the possibilities, including the technological possibilities to reach out to all those who sometimes have some doubts if they should or can be skilled or reskilled. so, technology innovation is also part of this year of skills. and today marks just the beginning. we have intensive months in front of us, and i look forward to close cooperation, to working together on this important initiative for our economy, our labour markets, but also for our societies, for our strong societies in a world that is changing. also, in the transformation of our economies, especially also a strengthening of our industry, and it has been just mentioned what is happening in some member states like sweden.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank you again for the excellent proposal that the commission has been able to put forward and for the opportunity we have had to work together to improve it. this year, europe day has an additional meaning, inviting us to reflect together on our own future. today marks the beginning of the european year of skills and the first thing i want to say is that i hope that from now on we can combine europe day with the start of the european years. what do we want from this european year of skills, now that it has begun? first, the initiatives to be developed over the next year should involve the different national and european stakeholders and put them at the centre of the discussion and debate. we need to involve business, social partners, civil society and public bodies, because everyone is needed in this effort to improve the skills of europeans. secondly, that there should be an allocation of resources which matches the level of demand and ambition of the objectives proposed for this european year. it was good to hear you mention this and let's hope so. it is essential that we can ensure that the year of digital and climate change does not fall on the shoulders of workers and does not constitute a worsening of people's socioeconomic inequalities, including in access to lifelong education and training. it is also essential to ensure that europe is attractive to people from third countries and that they are guaranteed all their social protection rights on arrival in the european union. thirdly, we must ensure that there is a combination of training that is made available to people and, on the one hand, focus on skills training within companies, but also ensure that the skills available to workers are transferable and allow them a greater capacity to adapt to the challenges of this dual definition. finally, and last but not least, we must ensure that the scope of competence is not limited to market needs. we cannot focus only on training skilled workers or informed consumers. we must ensure that we are also training the citizens of tomorrow, citizens who are participatory and equipped with the tools and skills needed to live an active life in the communities in which they live. it is the future of our democracies and the european project that depends on it. the european council welcomed the commission's proposal to establish a european competence year.
madam president, commissioner, swedish presidency, i think that when we talk about the european year of skills, we need to talk about the professionalisation of the workforce, about the exploitation of talent, about local education ecosystems, about supporting young people to find a job, about digital skills and how we have retraining programmes, including among the elderly, about adaptation. these are the future of the economy. we can't talk about creating jobs if we don't talk about people who are fit and ready for those jobs. the debate about the quantity of jobs, not the quality of jobs, is long over. today, the conversation is about how do we create better-paying jobs. the present and the future force us to invest in people. the european union is now a key global player shaping the future of the workforce. and today, not by chance, on 9 may, europe day, i want to draw your attention to the importance of this european year of skills that starts today. there will be no strong economy, no competitive economy, if we don't invest in people, in their skills. governments need to invest in education, in skills strategies at regional and local level, in close liaison with universities and the business sector. we need concrete eu funding opportunities to support local authorities to have these skills development initiatives throughout 2023 and beyond. that's why we're here today, colleagues. we are here to talk about the european year of skills. i speak to you as chairman of the european parliament's committee on employment and social affairs, but also from the heart. i urge all of you to think about the future of europe today, on its birthday, and to remember that people are the future of europe.
madam president, commissioner, in a constantly changing labour market, this year, 2023, the european year of skills, is of major importance. i think it is time to show more ambition in developing european initiatives in training, retraining and lifelong learning. only then will the european union be able to remain an attractive market for workers from all over the world. in romania, which has become a true digital hub, we have seen the importance of investing in the development of the skills of the future. our workforce has undergone significant transformation in recent years with the emergence of new industries and the digital economy. however, much work remains to be done to ensure that all citizens have access to high-quality training and education and that they are fully prepared for the changing demands of the labour market. the european year of skills 2023 offers us a unique opportunity to do this, to invest in our human resources and prepare them for the challenges and opportunities ahead. together we can build a more prosperous and equitable europe, where all citizens have the skills and knowledge to thrive in the 21st century.
mr president, consumers are not poorly informed about the environmental impact of products. no, the consumer is being lied to like a dog. in fact, the eu itself lies and deceives about agricultural production, about co2, about diesel and gasoline cars, to push the climate agenda. farmers provide greenery. co2 makes plants grow better and electric cars are more polluting than diesel or petrol cars. but for the batteries of electric cars, the eu is putting children to work in cobalt mines. solar panels contain highly toxic lead and cadmium, and discarded windmills, which are full of sulfur hexafluoride, are buried because recycling is too expensive. the eu must stop the climate dictatorship, which robs citizens of their last penny and freedom, and stop dispossessing farmers.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have just heard that the position which we as the european parliament have adopted by a majority in the committee and which we will probably adopt by a majority in the plenary goes beyond what the commission would like. and that is the question of the dark patterns. there is a report, then there are elections, then there is possibly a new commissioner, a new commissioner, then there is a new proposal. now, three years later, we want to ban something that every man and woman knows is harmful, that it's an unfair business practice, that we're being tricked here, being misled into doing something we don't even want to do, and coming out of a transaction with a shallow feeling that we don't even want to have. we've tried to address this in the digital services act, we've tried to address this in the digital markets act, but the crucial thing is that the consumer, that the consumer gets the opportunity to act against this by having it banned, by not having it done, by getting compensation for the damage they suffer from the deception, and by having consumer associations be able to sue against it. ladies and gentlemen, dear commissioner, i do not need an expert opinion to know that we must ban this. we have decided as members of parliament that we want to ban this. that's why we're taking advantage of this now and bringing the legislative process to a close so that dark patterns are finally outlawed.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the digital green transition is fundamentally changing the lives of consumers. i would like to address three points in particular which are relevant in this respect. firstly, consumers should be able to make an informed purchase decision. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the products it produces is not compromised. secondly, businesses, and especially small and mediumsized enterprises, must be able to implement bureaucratically what is required by the european union. support measures for smes are therefore urgently needed. thirdly, special attention should be paid to the special features of second-hand goods. secondhand sellers do not always have all the information necessary to make it available to the consumer. the commission has already proposed that the commission should be able to provide the information requested by the member states. empowering consumers to green transition is extremely important, but it must not become a burden. consumers must not be inundated with information. the aim is therefore to strike a balance between sufficient information and the necessary burden. i want to thank everyone who has worked here. consumers need clarity and information.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. if we want to ensure the prosperity of the citizens of our continent, we must disconnect it from our consumption of resources. if we're honest and we take a look at what our market is like right now, a lot of companies are not doing very well. there are products where screws are stuck, there are printers that stop printing after a certain number of sheets of paper, there are washing machines, there are small plastic wheels that just break, and this is a huge crime, not only against our consumers, but also against the environment. and if we look at the world as it is now, we can't afford to do that anymore. that is why it is so vitally important that we now put this clear sign: we ban planned obsolescence! we are making sure that this is not possible in the future, and we are making sure that eco-labels and greenwashing, which have no basis whatsoever, are not allowed in the future, and that is a beautiful, good sign in the european green deal. to a good vote!
president, commissioner, colleagues, businesses - and i am thinking in particular of smes - are at the heart of our transition to a more sustainable economic model. but as a consumer today, it's particularly difficult to assess which companies are making that transition in a true way. as a consumer, you do not always have the information you need to make a sustainable and environmentally conscious choice. however, consumers have a right to know how long a product should last or what the possibilities of repair are. by providing consumers with the right information and protecting them from misleading information, they can make the choice that suits them best and thus also steer the market in a certain direction. and ladies and gentlemen, the world is not standing still. it is therefore important that the list of unfair trading practices be supplemented. vague environmental claims, deliberate aging and unsubstantiated sustainability scores really need to be a thing of the past. this also increases the level playing field between our companies. this proposal puts consumers first, ladies and gentlemen. but to finish where i started: we can't forget the companies in this whole thing. i therefore expect you, commissioner, to give clear guidelines so that the implementation of these regulations can proceed as smoothly as possible. only then can this proposal become a win-win for consumers and businesses who want to move forward with this green transition.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think that on europe day we are giving a gift to consumers, to those who listen to us. the proposal for a directive is certainly very welcome, even though we have changed directives and regulations over time to increase consumer protection against unfair practices. we find that we're in a world where we have false information in all areas. we have in online commerce, we have in offline commerce. yes, we have a directive on the sale of goods which promote the durability of goods and that two-year guarantee, but through this proposal we want to increase transparency, the accuracy of information to consumers, but we will also stimulate the producers. the producers can give guarantees after two years, and that's very good, but it will still do something to the market, commissioner. manufacturers will have fair and honest competition, because the one who misrepresents that they have a product that is eco-friendly is sure to save on costs compared to another who actually has an eco-friendly product. so i think we're also helping to create a fair competition in the market.
madam president! we have talked a lot about fair information for consumers, so i will return to the amendment which the commissioner mentioned in his speech, and which concerns the double quality of products, because i think there has been some misunderstanding. the solution adopted by the european parliament, which will now be evaluated, does not meet our expectations, my expectations, and still needs improvement. i'm talking about products that are packaged the same or similarly similar but have the same ingredients, not products that are packaged the same but have the same ingredients. i know it sounds like a small thing, but this is the big deal. these products, packaged in the same or similar way, must be identical everywhere, in all the member states of the european union. otherwise, consumers will continue to be misled, lose confidence in the market and feel exploited by producers.
madam president, our common european market, which celebrates its 30th anniversary this year, is one of the most successful european projects. this is also because we place a strong emphasis on consumer rights and protection, thus becoming a global player. but here too, with the advent of new technologies, we need to innovate our legislation. the economic use of products and the raising of awareness of the importance of such an approach are also an integral part of a responsible approach to the planet. recent commission studies show that up to 80% of consumers claim that it is difficult for them to find information on how easily a product can be repaired. the new legislation strengthens the consumer's right to access important information on the lifetime, repairability, appropriate maintenance and available updates of products, in the case of software. all of this is aimed at guiding our consumers to make a sufficiently responsible purchasing decision, thus also contributing to more sustainable consumption. the new rules also strengthen fair and transparent relationships between companies and end-users through a stricter ban on vague and false information about products from a sustainability perspective. i am therefore convinced that this proposal can help us to make more efficient use of the resources at our disposal and also to develop our market in a sustainable way.
a uachtaráin, the choices made by consumers across the eu are pivotal to our green transition. we all have a role to play in reaching our climate targets, and it is clear that europeans from all member states are committed to playing their part if given the opportunity. our daily choices have the power to drive change and make a significant impact on our climate. to enable consumers make informed, eco-friendly choices, there is a need for a directive that enhances consumer rights. it is vital that information on a product’s environmental impact is clear and accurate, particularly on the durability, repairability and general sustainability of products. misleading information and greenwashing must be tackled. we cannot let companies exploit consumers’ willingness to make sustainable choices. guaranteeing third-party monitoring of certification scheme compliance is necessary and there should be a crackdown on false carbon neutrality claims. but we must also support businesses and smes in this process by providing guidelines that reduce administrative and financial burdens. in this way, we will enable consumers and businesses alike to be effective in their contribution towards a green transition.
madam president, commissioner reynders, colleagues, first of all, i congratulate the rapporteur and welcome this report which is about giving consumers the power of choice, to contribute to a green transition. consumers need, first and foremost, clear, accurate and easily accessible information. we all need products that are more durable, that we can easily repair when needed, but we must bear in mind that most of us have to pay close attention to the price of products. the additional certifications, the excessive bureaucracy, the additional labelling requirements lead to high costs for the producers, and this will be reflected in the selling price. consumers need safe products that do not harm their health and do not contribute massively to pollution, but we must give people, our citizens, the power to choose the right products at the right price, not force them through excessive costs or restrictions imposed by law.
madam president, the consumer order is clear at this time. they want to have enough verified information to make responsible decisions. however, the line between having enough information and being literally inundated with a variety of claims that are difficult to pick from has been blurred. i therefore welcome the proposed amendments to the unfair commercial practices and consumer rights directives, as they clearly define which claims traders can use and which are already misleading or deceptive. i also welcome the proposal to include activities aimed at the premature obsolescence of goods in unfair commercial practices. i've been calling attention to this need for a long time. the installation of such so-called billboards is not only bad for consumers' finances but also for the environment.
madam president, i would like to begin by saying that i support this draft directive and that it is important to see this matter through to the end. i'm all for greener products. i think all the colleagues in this room. it is important to put an end to misleading marketing and also to state that it is indeed unacceptable because it undermines consumer confidence in our european products. so consumer protection is certainly right, as is transparency and responsible marketing, as is the availability of all the important information. but i think there are certain issues, and that's the question of the simplicity of this amendment. in my view, it is important that it is also clear to the undertakings placing these products on the market. and i'm not entirely sure that we've reached a balanced model here. i therefore support some of the amendments tabled in this case. but as i said, the overall direction of this directive is in my view fine.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this debate. the proposal we are discussing today is intended to strengthen the horizontal consumer protection framework and, as you have mentioned, to ensure better consumer information by combating misleading messages and unfair practices. without this information, too many consumers are held back in their drive to promote a sustainable economy. and i am glad that this day of 9 may, this europe day, is ending with a debate on a proposal which provides practical support for citizens who are consumers. the commission is now ready to facilitate an agreement between the co-legislators during the trilogues. i thank you again for your support and attention, and i am confident that by working together we will be able to advance these consumer rights as part of the transition to a more sustainable economy.
rapporteur. – madam president, thank you all for your discussions and for the constructive work by you and your staff also on this document. we started from very different positions, but with the same goals, and in the end we found a good and workable compromise, i would say. european consumers will be empowered and environmental agenda advanced by these efforts. from what i saw of the council’s position, our friends and co-legislators share many of our ideas and goals and i am fairly sure that the trilogues will be rather short and quite constructive. the sooner we are done with the negotiations, the sooner businesses will have legal clarity and the consumers more clout.
madam president, methane is a powerful greenhouse gas, second only to carbon dioxide in its overall contribution to climate change and air pollution. in the eu, the energy sector is estimated to account for around a fifth of human-made methane emissions. i therefore welcome the report’s overall objective to reduce direct methane emissions from the oil, fossils, gas and coal sectors and from biomethane once it is injected in the gas network in the energy sector. it is important that we ensure the highest standards of measurement, reporting and verification of energy sector methane emissions and the immediate reduction of emissions through mandatory leak detection and repair, and a ban on venting and flaring. although not perfect, the proposal reflects the urgency to reduce methane emissions in the energy sector, while also ensuring that energy prices at not significantly impacted for consumers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted for this report because, although it seems drastic, the effects of methane emissions on human health and climate change are worrying. of course, we have entire regions that depend on methane gas for energy. there are regions where this is a better solution for the environment than what is currently being used. but we must consider the possibilities of investing in new technologies that produce energy in a much greener way. this report imposes certain rules aimed at improving the quality and technology used in the energy sector and aiming at reducing gas and methane emissions. all sectors need to contribute to reducing pollution and slowing down global warming, which affects us all and which we see, unfortunately, every day.
madam president, after carbon dioxide, methane is the second most impactful gas on the global environment, responsible for one-third of the current global warming. in november 2021, 110 countries and the european union launched the global commitment on methane, committing to reduce global methane emissions by 30% by 2030 compared to 2020 levels. i voted today to adopt a regulation that brings us closer to these objectives necessary to protect the health and well-being of european citizens. at the same time, i agree that the european union must ensure that, through its climate action, europe's industry is not seriously harmed and that it remains truly competitive on a global scale. only by balancing environmental measures and protecting industry will we ensure that the european path is sustainable and puts the interests of citizens first.
madam president, i supported this motion and i am also glad that it has received a fairly large amount of support. i think it is important that the european parliament is also aware of its responsibility to be credible. we support international commitments and agreements made by the entire international community. i already recall the glasgow conference or last year's sharm el-sheikh. the commitment to a 30% reduction in methane emissions by 2030 is, in my view, manageable. and we also have to realize that methane is a very potent greenhouse gas, although its effect pretty much fades after 12 years, or those molecules turn into co2 molecules. however, it is in this period that tangible results can be achieved, and that is why it is important that the european union joins these commitments, that we have here the first legislation on methane reduction at the european level and indeed on a global scale. so we're moving towards meeting our commitments, and that's what i think is very important.
a uachtaráin, the involvement of the entire fishing community is crucial for the conservation of fishing resources and the reasonable allocation of fishing quotas. it is essential to have a legal framework at eu level to ensure an effective co-management of fisheries while also respecting the local specificities of each member state. this report calls for the involvement of all stakeholders in the decision-making process and in the management of marine resources. the eu’s common fisheries policy should ensure that fishing activities contribute to long-term environmental, economic and social sustainability and contribute to increased productivity and a fair standard of living for the fisheries sector, many of whom have suffered greatly because of brexit. this parliament report is sufficiently balanced and reflects the importance of core management, as well as the involvement of all stakeholders in the governance process, especially fishermen and fishing communities, and this is the most important point of all.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we voted for this report because we all know how important an independent press that respects the criteria of professional ethics is. the procedures for the appointment of national media regulators must ensure independent and impartial leadership - especially politically, but also economically. unfortunately, this is not the case in several european countries, where the authorities try to control and drastically limit the freedom of the press. unfortunately, we have reached the situation where we see promoted even on the mainstream tv channels fake news and misinformation. the audiovisual media services directive (this report which i voted for today) must be implemented as soon as possible, respecting the principles of media independence, because this independence is vital to have an informed society, a society that can cope with the information war that we have all been experiencing in recent years.
madam president, the internet is now part of our daily reality and audiovisual media services are constantly evolving. our concerns must therefore reflect these new needs. the development of social media platforms has brought us face to face with the need to protect our consumers, especially children, from inappropriate content that can put them at risk. the abundance of information has created the need to have sufficiently powerful tools to combat disinformation and fake news. it is a matter of individual safety, but also of european safety. i have of course voted for this report and i hope that all member states will treat the implementation of the audiovisual media services directive with seriousness and a lot of responsibility.
madam president, i supported this motion for several reasons. firstly, i believe that we must fight against disinformation and attacks on journalists and, of course, against the lack of respect for the independence of the media, because all these values are, in my view, also part of democracy. it is also important to implement this directive in the member states for several reasons. impartiality in media governance must be respected at the national level. it is also important that impartial so-called media councils are appointed and i believe that the directive meets all these requirements. i supported her. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of personal data, in particular the rules on the protection of personal data and the rules on the protection of personal data. and i don't think it's relevant to name those states. however, i think it is important that these member states also realise that this is a value that the european union cannot discount.
a uachtaráin, this parliament report addresses the implementation of a dedicated eu school scheme which will fund the distribution of fruit, vegetables and milk along with educational and information measures. this scheme forms part of a key objective to ensure that children’s nutritional needs are met and healthy eating habits and lifestyles and established from an early age. the report focuses on the budget, coverage and simplification of the administrative processes of the scheme. this legislation will also help remove a good deal of red tape for schools and suppliers at national level to ensure the effectiveness of the programme. for these reasons, i was happy to support the report and i was also very happy to speak here in parliament as a member of parliament for ireland on europe day. long live schuman. long live the european union. agus éirinn go brách.
madam president, all children have the right to a healthy diet and i support that. we voted for this, but at the same time we have to take into account that not all children can eat dairy products and not all children like the same fruits and vegetables. we cannot standardize the tastes of children, and i hope we don't want to. and that's why we're going to have to be very careful and give this social support only to those who need it and in the way that they need it. a healthy economy, my friends, is one where parents can afford to buy healthy food and the population has the knowledge to eat healthy. such an economy is created by investments in education, industry, agriculture and legislation to encourage and support initiatives that can add value to the economy. of course, until we get to this level of well-being that we need, we need to support those who need help by creating targeted, effective programs. otherwise we are simply wasting the resources of the european union and the member states.
madam president, for many children in europe, but also in my country, romania, a school meal is perhaps the main meal they receive during the day, because unfortunately for these children, their parents cannot afford to provide them with sufficient and healthy food. for this reason, i voted in favour of this report on the fruit, vegetables and dairy programme in schools in the european union. we need to set clear priorities, and the health and well-being of our children must always remain our number one priority. that is why we need the continuation of this programme accompanied by a considerable increase in the budget. only then will we ensure that no child in eu schools is deprived of his or her right to a healthy, organic, varied and locally sourced food.
merci, madame brunet. i see pedro marques. do you want to take the floor?
thank you. pedro, i have requests from philippe, from manu, from manfred and from david casa. would you agree with the proposal that we have this in october so we can go ahead and prepare this properly? would that be okay? i see an agreement, so we will do this in october and prepare it properly. the agenda is adopted and the order of business is established. (the sitting was briefly suspended)
the next item is the debate on report by michael gahler and zdzisław krasnodębski, on behalf of the committee on committee on foreign affairs and the committee on industry, research and energy, on the european defence industry reinforcement through common procurement act (edirpa) (com(2022)0349 – c9-0287/2022 – 2022/0219(cod)) (a9-0161/2023).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commissioner responsible has not yet arrived. the vote tomorrow on edirpa, the regulation establishing the instrument to strengthen the european defence industry through joint procurement, marks a historic moment in european defence, as for the first time eu budgets will support member states in jointly procuring defence equipment. but without putin, there is no edirpa, there is no asap, it is about accelerating the production of ammunition, and probably there would be because he started his war in 2014, without putin there would be no activation of pesco or the defense fund that we all had to set up under this aspect. it is truly regrettable that it took this criminal and the brutal attack on ukraine to finally bring this instrument and others into being. we could and should have acted much earlier. we have already made this possible, 25 years ago, when the british and the french agreed in saint-malo that we could do something about this policy. a lot's happened since then. we have written many papers, created structures, instruments and the defence budget just mentioned. but if we look at it rationally and soberly, not much has happened yet, for example, of the more than 70 pesco projects, which is the permanent structured cooperation, none has really been launched, none has been changed accordingly and the skills gaps continue. joint procurement of armaments at european level is not only the logical consequence of the support for research and development projects in the defence fund, because what is developed together is then created together, but it is the key to a true common european defence, in which european armed forces can work together effectively on the basis of common equipment and also allow economies of scale and a more effective use of european taxpayers' money. we must finally overcome the domination of small states and national industrial policy considerations. edirpa is, of course, a short-term instrument, clearly against the background of the war in ukraine. the ep therefore strongly and successfully advocated in the negotiations to enshrine the procurement of defence equipment for ukraine and also for moldova in the edirpa regulation and to promote it in particular. however, the budget of 300 million can only be a start to help member states to replenish their stocks and to continue to supply ukraine. but given 30 years of neglect of our defence, we will need much more money, and i hope that the commission will quickly present the announced proposal for a comprehensive european defence investment programme. in addition to the continuation of edirpa in this programme, it will be crucial that this programme also has the appropriate means to meet the objectives and requirements. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank all the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs for their constructive cooperation, as well as the commission and the swedish presidency of the council and all the staff involved. we still managed to put 40 million on it. the commission has proposed 500 million, of which 240 million has been allocated to the asap programme, i.e. to promote the purchase of munitions. we should not let that happen to us in the future. i hope that we will make very good progress in this cooperation.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. as mr gahler said, this act to strengthen the european defence industry through joint procurement was intended from the outset to be one of the urgent responses to the russian aggression against ukraine in february last year. and now, if you'll allow me to mourn a little. the european parliament has not acted on this matter, in my view, quickly enough. we meet almost 15 months after the european commission published edirpa and two and a half months after the last trilateral talks, still under the swedish presidency. and in the meantime, in a record two months, we've managed to pass asap the ammunition support act. i would just like to point out that it was not the council (some colleagues complain about the council) that made our work so inefficient, but that it is the european parliament that is responsible for the long legislative work. and if it weren't for the political bargaining between committees, the decisions of the majority of political group chairmen, resulting in a complicated division of powers between committees, edirpa could have come into force a few months ago, and today the first projects would be receiving financial support. as regards the regulation itself, i would like to recall two of its main objectives. first, to strengthen the european defence industry by encouraging member states to cooperate in arms purchases and, second, to support member states' efforts to replenish the stockpiles of arms transferred to the ukrainian forces. it should be emphasized that the 300 million euros we negotiated will not be spent on joint arms purchases, because the treaties do not allow it. and we should respect treaties, as we all know. the european funds are intended to help establish cooperation between member states, resulting in joint purchases by those member states from their own resources. of course, in the current geopolitical context, all available tools, including eu money, must be used to strengthen the defence capabilities of member states as quickly as possible. we have managed to defend a number of important parliamentary proposals in the negotiations: a higher overall edirpa budget than the council's (although lower than the commission's) proposal, eu funding for at least seven projects, increased funding for those projects which would result in direct military support for ukraine and moldova. and while the €30 million is far less than the commission had originally announced, it should be remembered that it is intended to solve legal, logistical and financial problems in cooperation activities, not to provide funds for purchases. edirpa is therefore primarily intended to remove barriers to international and european cooperation in this field. the expected effect of the incentives for joint procurement should be to further increase demand for defence products and thus to increase the effort of member states and the industry itself to invest in the development of the industrial base. finally, i would like to thank my co-rapporteur, mr michael gahler. it was not only good cooperation between the committees, but also good cooperation, if i may say so, between germany and poland on this issue, and between my colleague ivars ijabs of the imco committee and other colleagues who were co-rapporteurs. i also thank the swedish presidency.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, today we mark a new stage in european defence integration. as russia’s unprovoked war continues to rage on european soil, we are about to adopt edirpa, a new instrument to support the joint procurement of armaments. and i would like to thank the co-rapporteurs, the shadow rapporteurs and the individual member states who worked on this text, which tomorrow the chamber will have the opportunity to adopt. for the first time, the eu budget will encourage member states to jointly procure the most urgent and critical defence products. this is an historic step forward. with this new initiative, our objectives are manifold. first, we want to respond to the difficult proof the war in ukraine made bluntly clear: europe must restore its collective defence capabilities. since 24 february, together with our allies and through the mobilisation of the european peace facility, we have organised and supported the transfer of arms to ukraine. it is a massive effort – unprecedented. however, to facilitate the support, the member states must draw on their stocks: ammunition, light or heavy artillery, anti-aircraft or anti-tank defence systems, armoured vehicles, tanks and as we recently heard, even f-16s. this both limits the possibilities of member states to provide further support to war-ravaged ukraine and weakens member states’ defensive capacities. we must address this urgently. with the new european joint procurement instrument we are proposing a european mechanism to carry out part of this stock recovery effort. this will come in support, for instance, of the recent framework contract that the eda just managed to conclude on ammunitions as part of the three-track approach on ammunitions, and this shows that there is increasing momentum within member states to join procurement. edirpa will help us to sustain and increase this momentum. secondly, we want to avoid fragmentation. many member states have announced a significant increase in defence spending in the face of the new security situation. there is a risk, however, that investments will be made purely along the national lines, and that would mean a fragmentation of armaments offers, a very damaging lack of interoperability and a challenge to the efforts made with the european defence fund to develop an integrated a european defence industrial base. with edirpa, we offer member states a path, a european alternative, by creating a common incentive and investment framework. thirdly, we want to support the adaptation of the european industry to the harsh reality, the return of high intensity conflicts in our continent. our industrial base is currently not prepared, neither in terms of volume nor pace to cope with the new security situation at our borders. and since member states need the same equipment at the same time and in large volumes, there is a great risk of competition between member states leading to higher prices and above all non-guaranteed access to key capacities. as we have done with vaccines, we must therefore act in the interest of all europeans to smooth out emergencies, evenly distribute available capacities and support an accelerated race in our industrial base. no member state should be left behind. edirpa has been developed and will be implemented in full synergy with another important initiative – the act in support of ammunition production (asap) endorsed by the co-legislators in record time. so, the commission is grateful to the european parliament and the council for their swift reaction. edirpa allows for the structuring of demand, while asap supports the ramping-up of ammunition production. the commission will implement both programmes in a diligent and timely manner. this is our collective responsibility to ensure continued support for ukraine and the security of our member states.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, as we have stated so often in this plenary, to this day, 80 % of defence equipment is procured at purely national level. not only do we need to invest more in defence but we definitely need to invest better, and better means, of course, more european. together we get better prices, profit from faster delivery times and avoid a regrettable lack of interoperability in our national capabilities. edipra, as previous speakers have pointed out, serves precisely this purpose. this instrument will pool the demand of member states and incentivise joint procurement by covering the administrative costs related to such cross-border cooperation. small- and medium-sized enterprises are key enablers of such collaborative efforts. i am glad to see their contribution recognised in this instrument. but with a budget of eur 300 million till december 2024, the envisaged financial volume, indeed, falls short of the actual needs that should not be dismissed. yet the political will for the instrument itself is a historic step towards a european defence union, because for the first time the collaborative procurement of defence equipment is supported directly from the budget of the european union. well done, i say, to the rapporteurs.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, with the approval of edirpa, the european union is taking a very significant step forward in the philosophy of action which, if pursued, will consolidate a defence union. with a launch funding of eur 300 million, the collaborative public procurement support facility under review will contribute to promoting the competitiveness and efficiency of the european defence technological and industrial base. as shadow rapporteur representing the socialist and democratic groups, i welcome the rapporteurs, i welcome the work we have done and i emphasize the provisions which give value to the role of smes, medium-sized companies, included in the award criteria, guaranteeing them a financing bonus, while at the same time providing them with information so that they can benefit from the joint public procurement actions. i also stress that edirpa will assist member states in meeting, on a voluntary and collaborative basis, their most urgent and critical defence needs, including those resulting from their transfers of defence products to ukraine. for all these reasons, i believe that edirpa should be supported.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, this file has been concluded with a lot of effort – an effort which might appear somewhat misplaced, particularly in light of the relatively modest budget that was agreed upon. but this instrument retains its relevance and importance nonetheless, because it gives us a good reflection of where we stand politically in preparing the ground for a true defence union. and i commend the rapporteurs for their patience and tact in navigating these negotiations. beyond its symbolism, edirpa is also important because it puts into motion the wheels for member states to work together and cooperate more in matters of defence. and here i call on the commission and the council, which is missing, to ensure its proper enforcement. there will be bureaucratic reservations in many national administrations and there will be reflexes of sovereignty, but all these must be overcome and ministries of defence must be convinced to enter this exercise in the most pragmatic way. which brings me to the last point. i see edirpa as only the beginning. we have tested our arguments and seen where our differences lie. let us learn from this lesson and be even more ambitious at the next step.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. madam president, commissioner, i would like to welcome the outcome of the interinstitutional negotiations, mainly because it gives flexibility to the member states in adapting the energy mix to national needs, and i am referring in particular to wood biomass, which in a country with such important resources as romania, my country, for example, must find its place in a sustainable energy mix, aligned with all green deal strategies. without striking a balance between the role of wood as a carbon-absorbing building material and that of wood as a renewable energy source, the forestry sector would not have been able to reach its full potential and europe's objectives. on the other hand, excluding biomass from the national mix would have deepened energy poverty in communities that simply have no other way to ensure a decent living. the outcome of these negotiations therefore shows that we can defend the environment and biodiversity in a balanced way, including through measures that also take into account the current needs and realities of all member states in a union seeking energy independence.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i was looking earlier, it's exactly 38 weeks and six days until the next european elections. and we'll all be back on the streets in the weeks leading up to it. we will promote all that the eu does for its citizens. they'll ask us, "what is she doing?" and with this consumer credit directive, we can say: we are protecting the poorest on this continent. because it is the poorest people who are most at risk of going into debt themselves. and we're protecting the young people, too. in recent years, the debt burden of young people on this continent has increased dramatically. and that's partly because of the coronavirus pandemic, but also because of all the buy now, pay later deals that are out there on the internet. and these narrow, these small loans that we regulate now, that we say, "no, the companies can't just give them out, they have to do a credit check", that's real consumer protection. we are making sure that things are fairer on our continent and that the very companies that have had a business model that has made money by taking fines from people who have nothing any more ... this is a very, very, very beautiful sign from europe to its citizens. and i'm proud that we're getting this started.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. in the last 15 years, since the adoption of the consumer credit directive, this market has undergone a real revolution. consumer habits have changed, digital transformation is proceeding, e-commerce is developing and automated credit assessment is becoming more widely used. it was therefore necessary to adapt to the new reality in order to ensure a high level of consumer protection and a well-functioning consumer credit market. i am particularly pleased with the changes to improve the consumer information system. the person who decides to take out a loan must be aware of the consequences of his decision, including, in particular, full information on the amount of the amount that he will actually have to repay, and he must have the financial capacity to do so. i consider it extremely important to protect consumers from excessive indebtedness resulting from responsible credit practices. in addition, i believe that provisions to facilitate access to credit for cancer survivors are particularly important.
president, commissioner, it is good that europe is protecting vulnerable consumers with this consumer credit directive. it is good that we have included the so-called right to be forgotten, specifically for people with the disease cancer. firstly, i think that many other diseases should also be able to be forgotten when applying for a loan. and i believe that vulnerable consumers should be protected. you used to have to go to a bank and then you'd be looked in the eye and you could get credit or not, and then you had to show a lot more and we knew each other. and what we're seeing with modern technology -- through the internet -- is that it's very easy to get consumer credit through an online bank or a mail order company, which puts a lot of vulnerable consumers in trouble, and ultimately, in a much bigger problem. and the fridge is long worn out if people are still paying for their credit. it is good that europe is working to protect them, but in all the regulations we make, we should take into account the protection of vulnerable people - especially the elderly, and often the young.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur and the shadows for this development to protect consumers in the credit market. it is really important and i really want to thank them for ensuring the inclusion of the right to be forgotten clause, which removes an obligation on individuals to disclose past cancer diagnoses to financial institutions such as banks or insurance companies, provided a certain period of time has passed. it is welcome that this provision is included, and i thank them for ensuring that we are at this point. this significant achievement will pave the way for greater equality and protection of cancer patients and survivors. nevertheless, the journey is far from over. we now need every member state, including my own ireland, to introduce this measure so that financial service providers adopt appropriate practices at national level. i thank those countries that have led so far. i also thank institutions such as insurance ireland that have moved to adopt a code of conduct. but now we have a reality whereby the right to be forgotten for cancer patients and survivors will be adopted across europe. that’s really one of the strengths of our beca report, initially, to ensure that we protect cancer patients and survivors.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, consumer credit is not for the rich. consumer credit is for people who need, as the name says, to consume small amounts, but who need to be protected, and it surprises me that there were colleagues here who said they wouldn't need to be protected. it's a first step, but it's not enough. there's still a lot of work to do. but i'm glad the ad was included. it's a fake commercial. it's attracted to people who need to take a sum of money on a false advertising and obviously they wake up afterwards that their conditions are changed during the contract, well, i don't know how we can protect them, because they exist. now, as we speak, there are no contracts that go all the way with the same terms. then, of course, we have to expand the scope, as it was said, buy now, pay later and don't know what's going on, go bankrupt and very serious is that there are discriminations. and, commissioner, you have said very well: no personalised credits. it's great that a first step has been made for cancer patients, but there are still many other categories that are discriminated against...
mr president, commissioner simson, mrs konečná, and colleagues, i am very pleased that we are having this debate in the european parliament's plenary and i would have liked to have had many more colleagues in the chamber, because the citizens of our countries, of the entire european union, need to see that the european institutions are focused on the issues that concern them. i am very pleased that this directive clearly states, in addition to all the arguments put forward by other colleagues, that interest rates must be very clear and transparent, explained to the customer and that no hidden charges will be introduced. and, commissioner, i have a simple piece of advice for you: after we have passed this directive through the european parliament, you put pressure on the member states to implement it.
mr president, commissioner breton, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has shown that it can bring stability and prosperity to all europeans. the solutions that we have found together to the challenges that we have faced over time and in the last three years, and even more so, the way we negotiate and find solutions are clear signs that when we want something, when we need to react, we can succeed if we work together. but there are times when some member states do not want to act for the good of us, of all european citizens, when they are tempted to put populism before respecting the laws and rules that we have all set together. for cases like this, like keeping romania and bulgaria out of the schengen area, we have to find solutions, because the european treaties have to be respected, whether it suits a party, an interior minister or a chancellor. we must show the european citizens that they can rely on us, that we can guarantee that european law is respected here in the european parliament and in the other european institutions.
mr president, over the past four years we have witnessed a significant decline in media freedom across all eu member states. with the implementation of the digital services act, we now have a minister of truth in the eu capable of censoring publications or personal opinions, even on social media. this censorship tool, which eastern european communists only dreamed of, is now a reality in western europe. with the implementation of the media freedom act, security services can spy upon european journalists more easily. this proposal is mainly supported by the epp, renew and the s&d, posing a clear threat to european democracies. during the pandemic, european institutions paid millions of euros to brussels media, which in return did not criticise or oppose their corrupt or abusive actions. in summary, under ursula von der leyen’s leadership, the eu is gradually but undeniably transforming into a new soviet union-style tyranny. i urge european citizens to vote for patriots and conservatives in 2024, so that we can restore freedom and liberty all across europe.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today's decision by the european commission to start negotiations for the accession of moldova and ukraine to the european union is correct, justified and a historic day. this decision is correct because the eu accession negotiations are one of the most powerful tools the eu has to support transformations, reforms, modernization and stabilisation, strengthening the states of our immediate neighbourhood that want to become members of the european union. by today's decision, the european union is telling the republic of moldova and ukraine clearly: we will be involved financially, technically, with all our expertise, so that the people of ukraine and the republic of moldova can get close to european standards as quickly as possible. we will be involved in reforming the justice system, modernizing these countries, modernizing all areas. commissioner, it will be very important that we transpose this recommendation into a final council decision and start accession negotiations as soon as possible, early next year. today's decision is a victory for the european union, a victory for the people of these countries and it is a confirmation that the russian federation's influence in the region is declining.
madam president, the european commission's recommendation to start accession negotiations with moldova and ukraine is a decision of great political and economic impact in the region. i hope that the member states will take a swift decision and validate this commission recommendation in such a way that the negotiations with moldova and ukraine can begin before the spring of next year. the start of the negotiations will be a strong political signal for the people of the candidate countries, but also for european entrepreneurs, who need to be supported and encouraged to invest in these countries. at the same time, we need to discuss the gradual integration of moldova and ukraine into some european policies before the formal signing of the accession treaty, but also the adaptation of the european union's trade policy towards these countries and the budgetary allocations that will be needed. the sooner the results of these negotiations, tangible results for citizens, are seen, the more credible and effective this accession negotiation process will be.
- mrs. president, please. the enlargement process must not be overlooked by the decades of efforts made by the western balkans. the western balkans' waiting tactics are clearly not working. the conditions for the opening of negotiations with bosnia and herzegovina send the wrong signal to the country and the region that war is a proliferation policy generator for the union. the commission's decision on bosnia is hypocritical, as it could wait until the spring to start negotiations. this would lead to reforms and prevent further stagnation. the normalisation of relations between serbia and kosovo is key to the rapprochement process and stability in the region. in the case of north macedonia, i call on the opposition to take a constructive stand in adopting the relevant constitutional amendments. respected high choice, dear commissioner! the broad policy is a two-way street and the union must therefore adopt internal reforms to prepare the union for the enlarged european family. we must not allow nationalism to put out the european drive in the union and its neighbourhood.
madam president, continental unification must be a new process, gradual, flexible, reversible and based on merit. it requires a strong political commitment from the union and the candidates, adherence to the founding principles of the union, full respect for the rule of law and the abolition of the veto in the european union. so, dear colleagues, we must have the courage to face reality. an ambitious and innovative revision of the treaties is essential to bring the enlarged union into being. the decision to transform our union by enlarging it forces us to undertake a triple revolution. politics must prevail over the economy, the progressive integration of the candidate countries into the internal market is essential, and the union must become a geopolitical power. it is time to assume our responsibilities without exhausting the patience and determination of our eastern partners while reforming our institutions. as a result, i repeat, let us reform the union to unite the continent.
madam president, speaking as co-rapporteur of the european parliament on enlargement, let me welcome today’s european commission recommendation to grant candidate status to georgia and to open accession negotiations with ukraine and moldova. i also welcome efforts made by other candidate countries and as progress in the western balkans has stalled, i urge them to pursue their reforms agenda to meet the requirements for accession. in fact, accession to the eu is a merit-based procedure with no shortcuts, no fast tracks and no counterproductive fixed deadlines. but as we are moving forward towards enlargement, it is time to recall that also european institutional and financial reforms are needed to ensure the eu’s capacity to absorb new members. simplify decision-making, re-composition of eu institutions, flexible solutions for differentiated integration and additional fiscal capacity – all those are prerequisites for enlargement. so let’s make our own homework. candidate countries must make reforms, but so do we at european level.
madam president, the republic of moldova and ukraine fully deserve the european path we have decided to support and i would like to thank the commission for today's very strong message. the republic of moldova has reformed its administration, strengthened its justice, continued its fight against corruption, invested in people, people who have shown courage, determination, power, responsibility. the most important thing that needs to happen now is that we show the same determination and responsibility to help them move forward until they become an integral part of the european family. the republic of moldova is a small country with a big heart. it is a country that can be supported very easily from a technical, financial, resource point of view, so that it can move towards this integration as quickly as possible, and ukraine needs to be rebuilt step by step.
madam president, dear colleagues, we are all here to defend the rights and interests of the citizens who have elected us. we're here to defend their right to choose or send home if we fail to honour their duty to represent them. we're here to defend democracy in europe and around the world. so it's a good thing to talk openly, to say things by name. we're talking about promoting free and fair elections while we have among us supporters of states that use elections exclusively to preserve their power and intervene in electoral processes in other democratic states. the right to vote is, of course, a fundamental right that does not need explanation, but its assurance is not sufficient. it is essential to ensure that citizens have the right to accurate and distant information. the real problem is still the disinformation, propaganda, manipulation, tools used to control citizens and to tell them what the manipulators are interested in. the european union has an obligation to react firmly and to counter the widespread disinformation campaigns.
madam president, dear colleagues, the national treasure of romania, weighing 94 tons of gold, consisting of money, lingerie, jewellery or other art objects, has been in russia for over a hundred years and it refuses to return it to romania. in 1916, this treasure was moved from romania to tsarist russia, with the aim of being sheltered until the end of world war i. in 1917, tsarist russia fell under the control of the communist hordes led by marxist lenin, which became the soviet union. not only did the soviets rob and loot neighboring countries, but they took over as their own, including property that was sheltered in banks or under guarantee in the banks of the tsarist empire. the current russian federation has continued this bandit attitude, refusing to return romania's national treasure, which it still abuses. this treasure is not only a collection of valuable objects, but is also part of romania's identity and cultural heritage. i therefore call on the european commission and the european parliament, in cooperation with the government of romania and the national bank of romania, to use all available diplomatic and legal means to remedy this injustice and to return the national treasury of romania from russia.
madam president, it is an important day today, the european commission has invited the republic of moldova to start accession negotiations to the european union. but i think the rules are the rules and they should be for everyone, including when we talk about sports. and i want to say from here, from the plenary of the european parliament, that it is unacceptable and incomprehensible that uefa has decided to host football matches in a territory controlled by the russian federation for over 30 years, in the republic of moldova, in the transnistrian region. i'm joining the organization promo-lex which is demanding that this organization suspend all matches played in an area controlled by separatists led by the kremlin. this is unacceptable and i think we need to have very high standards when we discuss our strategic interests and respect for fundamental rights.
the next item on the agenda is the discussion of the council and commission statements on the outcome of the eu-usa summit (2023/2924(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs jourová, i thank you for your invitation to discuss with you the outcome of last month's eu-us summit. as mentioned in the joint statement of the leaders, since the last summit in june 2021, the world has changed in an unprecedented way, and the european union and the united states have deepened their cooperation to respond with ambitious steps. perhaps you remember that the day before the summit, the president of the united states addressed the american public from the oval office for the second time in his term, to recognize what he described as a turning point in history, in which the decisions now being made will have far-reaching consequences. the next morning, president biden met with leaders of the european union to discuss the situation in the middle east, russia's war of aggression against ukraine, china, the creation of partnerships with emerging economies and developing countries and many other issues. this clearly demonstrates that the european union remains for president biden and his administration the indispensable partner to which the united states has first resorted. let me briefly review the main themes of the debate. the european union and the united states have broadly agreed on the middle east. this is reflected in the joint declaration adopted at the summit, which is very much in line with the european council members' statement on the situation in the middle east, published just days before the summit. as regards russia's war of aggression against ukraine, the leaders confirmed clearly that the european union and the united states maintain unwavering and prolonged support for ukraine and will continue to work to achieve the greatest possible international support for ukraine's peace formula. the leaders also addressed the issue of russian immovable assets and committed to jointly implement sanctions and control measures to avoid circumvention. relations with china were another important issue. both sides are willing to forge a constructive and stable relationship with china and recognize the importance of an open dialogue with beijing. they called on china to act internationally in areas such as the climate emergency and the biodiversity crisis, supporting vulnerable countries, global health and macroeconomic stability. in the context of the establishment of partnerships with emerging and developing economies, they stressed the effectiveness of multilateral development banks. they committed to increasing the level of ambition to provide greater leeway and more financing under favourable conditions to boost the world bank's capacity to support middle and low-income countries and to provide more assistance to poorer countries. on economic cooperation and trade, the summit reaffirmed the importance of the most dynamic economic relationship on the planet and the role of the eu-us trade and technology council. the commission also took note of the strengthening of our resilience and economic security. although we could not achieve concrete results on the global agreement on sustainable steel and aluminium or on the agreement on essential minerals, progress was made in both cases and negotiations will continue, as always with the old partners. let me pause a little more on these two instruments, given their importance for our economic relationship with the united states. as regards the global agreement on sustainable steel and aluminium, i believe we now have a better understanding of their respective positions and the importance we attach in the european union to compliance with the rules of the world trade organization, while maintaining our regulatory autonomy and fully respecting our legislation. although the talks are ongoing, we must maintain the tariff suspension on both sides. work on the agreement on essential minerals is more advanced. a deal would demonstrate our determination to meet our strategic dependencies and at the same time improve resilience. it would also be important to mitigate some of the negative consequences of the us inflation reduction act. finally, i shall mention the interpersonal contacts. this is an aspect of our partnership that is often forgotten, but that nevertheless deserves our full attention. the european union and the united states committed to working towards visa-free travel between all eu member states and the united states and to significantly increase the number of transatlantic academic exchanges between our citizens over the next five years. in short, we believe that this year's eu-us summit was very fruitful and that it clearly showed the relevance and vitality of the transatlantic partnership in times of global uncertainty.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, the eu-us summit took place on the 20 october and marked the second meeting of its kind organised with the biden administration. our goal was clear: to consolidate and strengthen the relationship between the european union and the united states, particularly as we approach elections on both sides of the atlantic next year. i am delighted to report that this objective was fully shared by both the european union and the united states. the commitment to fortify our partnership was demonstrated by the high level of participation in the summit. president biden was accompanied by four of his cabinet members, including secretary of state blinken, secretary of treasury yellen, secretary of commerce raimondo and trade representative ambassador tai. on the european side, presidents michel and von der leyen led the way with the presence of high representative borrell, executive vice-president dombrovskis and myself. the summit can be deemed as a success. our joint commitment to stand by ukraine for as long as it takes was reaffirmed. we also underscored the critical importance of transatlantic ties, especially in the face of increasing geopolitical challenges. notably, we made significant progress towards a global arrangement on sustainable steel and aluminium, and a critical minerals agreement. we reiterated the importance of the eu-us trade and technology council and agreed on the need to advance meaningful reform within the world trade organisation. in the context of the steel and aluminium arrangement, we made substantial strides in identifying the sources of non-market access capacity and outlining the tools required to decarbonise the steel and aluminium industries. we are committed to continuing this progress in the coming months with the aim of fostering undistorted transatlantic trade in these sectors. negotiations on the critical minerals agreement also advanced significantly and we will continue to engage with the united states and consult with our member states to finalise an international agreement. this agreement will allow eu critical minerals to benefit from subsidies for electronic vehicles and help integrate transatlantic, critical mineral and battery supply chains. moreover, the critical materials agreement will enable us to jointly advocate for environmental protection and labour rights in trade and international supply chains of critical minerals. president von der leyen and president biden highlighted the substantial progress made under the eu-us trade and technology council. the cooperation within this council has been instrumental in strengthening the trade-related aspects of our response to russia’s aggression against ukraine, and effectively addressing trade irritants and disputes. it remains crucial for creating a resilient and green transatlantic marketplace. we look forward to seeing further progress at the upcoming technology and trade council ministerial meeting before the end of the year. furthermore, we have agreed to collaborate in raising cybersecurity standards to protect consumers and businesses, reduce vulnerability to cyber-attacks, and lower trade barriers in this area. there is a strong interest on both sides on artificial intelligence, as reflected in the summit conclusions. we both want to reap the benefits of this transformational technology while addressing the risks. we have made substantial progress in our bilateral cooperation and the initiative for a code of conduct for generative ai, which was first launched at the ttc in may this year, was adopted by the g7 last year. our discussions also emphasised the need to enhance economic resilience and security, particularly by reducing supply chain vulnerabilities, especially concerning raw materials essential to the green and digital transition. we recognise the importance of bolstering transatlantic supply chains and addressing potential risks related to technology, security and technology leakage, while countering economic coercion.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, madam commissioner, representative of the council, colleagues, the us is the most fundamental partner for the european union. how we address global challenges and our relations still sets the foundation of the multilateral order. next month, we will adopt a report on eu-us relations, setting our expectations and goals ahead of the election year on both sides of the atlantic. we do share the feeling on how our relations got restored with the current administration, especially while joining together to assist ukraine in its fight against russian aggression. however, other challenges are emerging: escalation of conflict and humanitarian crises in the middle east; our relations with china and the global south; how to defend our democracies and make our economies more sustainable and resilient. while we share the basics, we must also work closely to align our policies further to achieve them while strengthening ourselves. the european union has to match its ambition with concrete reforms and investments, because a strong europe is the best partner to the united states, and vice versa.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, dear vice-president, dear state secretary, we always declare that our eu-us bond is about shared values, and yet we often get bogged down in semantics about irritants or low-hanging fruits. even worse, we get confused about friends and foes. the reality of today’s geopolitics must make us more clear-eyed than ever: together and well attached to our values, we can secure the resilience of our democracies and economies, maintain open and safe trade routes, advance on critical technologies and reinvest in building partnerships and alliances around the world. now the question, which i also want to raise to the vice-president, is: how do we anchor the objectives set out in the summit declaration to weather the possible political highs and lows that next year’s elections might bring on both sides of the atlantic? what are the concrete projects and what are the stakeholders outside or inside the political spectrum that might be ensuring continuity of purpose and delivery regardless of electoral outcomes? because the time for identifying those projects and for investing those stakeholders into existing processes such as the ttc, that time is now.
the european union has a strong commitment to the fight against climate change and the introduction of new euro 7 emission standards for cars, trucks and heavy-duty vehicles is a huge step towards a sustainable europe. it is, however, very important that these measures always have as their main objective the improvement of the quality of life of the citizens of the european union. that is why the new pollution limits must be realistic and ensure that the european automotive industry remains competitive and relevant globally. moreover, we must ensure that the european economy does not become dependent on third country supply chains, especially in an uncertain global political context. i consider parliament's position on this proposal for a regulation to be ambitious but balanced and realistic. so we voted in favour of a new set of rules to achieve the eu's climate goals without putting too much of a burden on citizens.
madam president, strengthening the financial autonomy of the european union is in the interest of all member states, as it guarantees us the resources needed to overcome crisis situations. we therefore voted in favour of the proposal to improve the european union's own resources system to make it simpler, more transparent, fairer and tax-neutral for citizens. diversification of income sources is required in view of increasing expenditure and this updated basket is expected to generate revenue of around eur 45 billion per year at current prices, starting in 2028. we are all beneficiaries of the eu budget and we must ensure that it is not a political issue, as has happened many times. the diversification of the european union's own resources is a necessity. there is no reason for political strife between member states. on the contrary, it is a reason for mobilization and responsibility so that we can collect at source without burdening european citizens.
madam president, the sanctions imposed on russia are proof of the ability of the member states to coordinate when europe's security is threatened. it is regrettable, however, that in times of historical crisis this unit is endangered by some states, such as austria, which has doubled its economic trade in goods imported from russia since the beginning of the war in ukraine. in addition, the commission notes that the union industry's share of the union industry's exports to the union increased by around eur [...] million in the period from the entry into force of the anti-dumping measures in force in the prc. in practice, vienna continues to supply the barbarian regime in moscow with over 20 million euros a day. in this context, i ask the commission to respond to the submissions made by my colleague, mr vlad botoš, on these flagrant violations of sanctions conditions against russia.
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today is world children's day. i regret to point out that the situation for children is still dramatic when we look at child poverty in europe and italy. i'm leaving my country. the european union has given the prime minister giorgia meloni the child guarantee and an excellent national plan for its implementation. but since its establishment everything is still: the end of the child protection working group is not known; the social spending is cut by a disastrous budgetary law and the pnrr is on the children and the nests. it notes that in 2022 13.4% of children were in absolute poverty, emphasizing absolute poverty; full-time guaranteed only to 38,1% of primary school students and neets over 23%: the highest figure in the european union. data that makes you angry and shows you can't waste time. instead, we're wasting resources and opportunities. it's a shame. this is not just for italy. child poverty is on the rise in europe, with millions of children at risk. we cannot allow years of fighting child poverty to go to waste. for example, tomorrow we can take a step forward together and ask for at least eur 20 billion for the child guarantee to support these programmes further, hoping that they will be implemented in the right times and in the right ways, including to respond to the needs of refugee children. otherwise, if we don't act, we'll condemn millions of children to an unworthy future.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, dear vice-president šuica, dear colleagues, a child living in poverty is a catastrophe – clearly for their family, but also for society at large. today, we are talking about how the eu is taking care of our children. are we taking care of our children well in europe, respecting their rights and providing access and opportunities? the answer is ‘no’. today’s debate is not a theoretical exercise about the world’s problems. we have 5 million children in poverty in the eu today. today we are debating a resolution prepared by the employment and social affairs committee of this parliament, led by renew europe, but supported by all political groups and developed in a full consultation in transparency with the stakeholders. and indeed it’s a resolution to try to redress this unacceptable situation. the european child guarantee is the wild card to get millions of children out of poverty, and we need that because this can be a game changer. ambition and proper implementation through the national action plans. we need to set crazy, ambitious actions by constantly being more coordinating, better governance, having a european authority for children, having the additional budget that we need of 20 billion and plus, having meaningful implementation and synergy among authorities. children and inequality, poverty, social exclusion: these are words that should never say to each other. we should do everything in our power to provide the children a best future, a better future to learn and become amazing human beings that they are destined to be, away from poverty, social exclusion and inequality.
mr president, the institute for strategic dialogue published a report today, the third in a series of three reports on disinformation and misinformation in ireland. this third report focused on narratives. unsurprisingly, the report concludes that the pandemic supercharged online disinformation and misinformation. the exercise by countries and member states of extraordinary powers and the rollout of vaccines fed into pre-existing conspiracy theories. unsurprisingly, also, it finds that the narratives are immigration, lgbt rights and the war in ukraine. the conclusion, also unsurprising, was that online platforms are failing to discharge their statutory obligations or any of their own community guidelines. the disinformation epidemic triggered by the war in gaza is unprecedented, according to eu disinfolab. haaretz describes disinformation as a deadly new front in the war. disinformation exaggerates differences, causing spikes in islamophobia and anti-semitism. disinformation erodes democracy because that is what it is for. the digital services act took enormous political effort from all eu institutions. the urgency of implementation has never been more apparent.
mr. president, 6,700 places to stay, but 90,000 students. that's what's happening in cluj. it's like you're admitted to a home, not college. what do young people do when they don't have a place at home? i go to the open market, look for a private rent. that starts somewhere at 400 euros. they're humiliated at first by the system and then they take on the real estate shark. you heard about the garage made room? what about the decommissioned bathroom? all kinds of chilies and cabinet ads are the delight of the internet. it's just not funny. young people suffer, they have anxiety, they have depression. from a basic thing: having a place to live. i'm giving you 500 euros for rent. i have three other students with me. i can support my own, i'm lucky. others have to work full time and go to college just to live. aren't you ashamed to tell young people to come to the polls? if we want that, we should start by listening to them.
mr president, while the european parliament is struggling to preserve the european flag, something that is certainly very important, and in bulgaria the failed government, the non-coalition bloc, has managed to fail, to plunder and to spoil some elections. no jokes, no tricks, you know. at 9.45am on 20 november, the european parliament is discussing the european elephant. these are good things, important things. in the midst of two brutal wars raging on our borders we, you fight the snake, for her, i don't know. you'd think it might seem hard to make parliament look more ridiculous, but you're trying. anyway, that's not that important. the most important thing in this case is that in bulgaria a deputy minister from the democratic bulgaria quota steals voting machine codes, then cancels the voting machine, gets the paper, abuses. four hundred thousand invalid voices and again people are deceived. but it's quiet here. it's not about these things, it's about the fight for the population of the young european snake. this is exactly what the european union and the european parliament look like. don't be surprised, don't get mad afterwards.
mr president, last saturday i was among more than a million spaniards who were marching in the streets of madrid. the reason is the spanish people's refusal to accept a legal coup d'état by the government's president, pedro sánchez, who, in defiance of the law and national unity, granted amnesty to catalan prisoners who were independentists in return for their support for his government coalition. for three weeks now, the spanish people have been protesting the socialists' low political manoeuvres. the european union, which has very reactively condemned countries like hungary and poland for decisions that respect the law and the will of their constituents, remains curiously silent. perhaps because the eu considers sánchez a political ally, a partner who lets the illegal migrants from africa pass through our european continent. interference in the internal affairs of states is inadmissible. but when a country's national unity is threatened and the law is broken, it is our duty, all political parties combined, to support those who are fighting to preserve their country's national unity and future.
- your honor, the president. we are very pleased to have the 16th european roma platform organized by the spanish presidency in madrid on 30 november. we are pleased that the spanish presidency has been able to bring a council decision prohibiting segregation under the roof, and we think it is very important that the next member of the trio, belgium, does its part. this european parliament should now have 21 roma members instead of the current three. so we want to get the belgian presidency to get as many roma as possible to vote and as many roma as possible to vote in the european elections. the next task in the european presidency will be for the hungarians. as in the previous hungarian presidency, we are now preparing to promote the integration of the poorest in other member states through concrete good practices, so that we can move forward, so that we can produce new results, because we have made two steps in the past years in eradicating poverty and unfortunately one step back in the last year, due to inflation, war and covid.
mr. speaker, a few days ago, karel schwarzenberg died, a prominent czech politician, statesman, a man who helped bring down communism not only in czechoslovakia but throughout central europe. he supported dissidents and then became publicly involved for many years. he was the longtime foreign minister of the czech republic. he was also the author of the first czech presidency, to the success of which he contributed precisely as foreign minister. karl schwarzenberg has always been a champion of european values, and i wanted to take this opportunity to call on the relevant european authorities and authorities to consider how to commemorate karl schwarzenberg's longstanding legacy at european level. such personalities are lacking today, and their work and legacy must be remembered for future generations.
mr president, dear colleagues, i am proud to represent the counties of alba, transylvania and romania in the european parliament and to fight for our country from the position of chestor, the most important function currently held by romania in european legislation. i think our country needs to have a strong voice in the european decision-making process. i want to assure romanians, and in particular the citizens of alba county, that i have a mep who is fighting for their rights, for the allocation of additional european funds, for the preservation of cultural heritage, such as that of alba iulia, the apuseni mountains or the blaj, aiud, cugir or sebeş area, for supporting romanian states and young people, for respecting the dignity of romanians in the european union. it requires us to take advantage of european opportunities to develop our communities. unfortunately, in too many areas of romania and alba county this opportunity has not been properly used, although we have positive examples in certain localities. my door is always open to all those who are fighting for a strong romania in the eu and for the truly modern and european county of alba.
mr vice-president, we have all seen that when the three european institutions, the parliament, the commission and the council decide to debate in order to find solutions to different problems, these solutions can be found and implemented very quickly. this is the spirit that we should have in all situations, including with regard to the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area. and yet we are in the incredible situation where the european parliament is recommending accession through the many resolutions we have adopted here in recent years. the european commission finds that all the criteria are met and recommends the accession of romania and bulgaria and, moreover, all member states, with one exception, agree to it. so, we could say that the council is also overwhelmingly in agreement. but we can't get the agreement between the three institutions. i urge chancellor nehammer to mandate the minister of the interior, gerhard karner, and the council of 5 december - justice and home affairs council - austria to no longer oppose the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area.
mr president, dear colleagues, eu is clearly moving from an area of freedom to an area of mass surveillance, a digital prison where everything that everybody will do, online or offline, will be tracked, monitored, stored and profiled in order to change, predict and control people’s behaviour. this objective was already articulated by ursula von der leyen in 2019, exactly in this plenary, when she stated, and i quote, ‘carbon emissions must have a price that changes people’s behaviour’. despite significant and numerous concerns raised by field experts, the european parliament and council have moved forward to conclude negotiations on the european digital wallet and european digital identity. the european digital wallet will store people’s personal data and digital currency on servers beyond their full control. this system enables governments to regulate people’s use of their own money, which will no longer be in cash, but in digital form. if the government can control what you can do or how you can spend your own money, that clearly is not a free society any more but a barbaric totalitarian state. we have an obligation to safeguard the freedom of our generation and the future ones, which is why i urge you to vote against the implementation of the european digital wallet regulation.
madam president, i am taking this debate to address the question of pesticides, which are banned in europe but exported to the rest of the world. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the basis of the commission's proposal. this practice is deeply shocking and totally against ethics. the fact that these products are now banned on the european market is precisely because their use is harmful to human health, the environment and biodiversity. what's not good here is not good anywhere else, and pouring out what we consider toxic in our own homes is deadly. it is both deadly and utterly stupid to know that the products we import from these countries contain the pesticides we wanted to get rid of. so they end up in our plates. silly is often a boomerang, but the victims, once again, are the citizens. the export of these banned pesticides must therefore be banned in all member states and controlled to ensure that this prohibition is properly respected.
a uachtaráin, i think, as a result of all the legislation we have passed in this mandate, many farmers feel sometimes under attack and certainly not appreciated. and that’s a pity, because many are making huge efforts to farm sustainably and reduce their carbon footprint. for instance, in ireland, the targets in the pesticides directive have already been met and farmers should have great credit for that. but on the broader front, i think what we really need to do is to put more money and effort into research, so that there will be alternatives in place before we introduce bans. putting the cart before the horse is not the way to do business, and if we do it the other way around, then we will ensure that farmers incomes are protected, food security is guaranteed, and we won’t be importing from places that haven’t the same restrictions as we have.
madam president, madam commissioner, my colleagues, if the farmers listen to us now - this debate - they will say this: everyone is good at everything. i'm very curious whether those who are very strongly in favor of a pesticide ban have ever seen a cornstarch beaten to the ground by pests. i think we must protect the environment, but i think at the same time we cannot double down, commissioner, because you approved, for example, imports from ukraine without plant health testing and you destroyed the producers in my country, romania and other countries and at the same time, the pressure is on farmers and producers in the european union. at the same time, it's absolutely discriminatory, as in my country, if we cut by 50 percent to 300 grams per hectare, and in the netherlands to 4,000. so if we don't try to take rational measures and find replacements first and then ban them, we're going to destroy european agriculture and live off imports that are full of pesticides, as many of our colleagues have said. i think we need to build a bridge first and then tear down the existing one, and i think citizens have a right to do that. it should be made very clear that this green protectionism is harmful to citizens and not a benefit.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first of all, i would like to thank you for this very fruitful debate and lively debate. and of course, many points were raised and i listened to them carefully. there is just one or two points that i feel that i need to touch on. first of all, it was said by an honourable speaker that we have not listened to anyone. i think the words were used in relation to glyphosate, and i just want to say that this is not the case. we have had extensive consultations and taken in all scientific opinions, and with efsa and with the european chemical agency and with stakeholders, and of course, we will continue to to listen. several speakers also mentioned the issue to do with the access that farmers could have to alternatives to chemical pesticides. in the sur proposal there are numerous measures which are intended to incentivise the use of low-risk and bio-controlled substances. we are already working with member states, industry and stakeholders to further accelerate the transition. this is outlined in the commission’s response to the article 241 council decision. and possibly some of these legislative actions that co-legislators could consider in the context of the sur negotiations are, for example, allowing provisional authorisations at member state level for biocontrol products or allowing unlimited approvals at eu level for biocontrol active substances. finally, in the comments that i heard coming up several times that there is a total ban in the use in sensitive areas. in the commission non-paper there is no total ban on the use of pesticides on sensitive areas. the ban is only for the more hazardous pesticides. and what we are actually advocating is the use of low-risk and biocontrol products. so, i would just like to say here that, as in many other files that we find ourselves debating in this plenary, there are many different views. emphasis is placed in different ways, but these different views should not stop us from making progress on this proposal. i have many, many times repeatedly said that the commission is open to potential solutions to finding workable and effective compromises on the main points of concern in the proposal. once the council agrees on its general approach, i very much look forward to the interinstitutional trilogue meetings, because i believe that they will allow us to make progress on this file. ultimately, what we are trying to all together do is meet the expectations of citizens, of consumers, of farmers, and of course, of other pesticide users.
the debate is closed. the vote will be tomorrow. the following information shall be provided:
in writing. in the current context of geopolitical uncertainties and inflation, i believe it is imperative to support european farmers in ensuring food security. we need to strike a balance between reducing the use of chemical pesticides and the needs of agricultural production. in this respect, promoting biopesticides as an effective, affordable and sustainable alternative is essential. however, a sudden and mechanical reduction in pesticide use, without taking into account the specificities of each member state, could have negative repercussions on agricultural production and food prices, while also affecting farmers' incomes. i therefore propose that the eu grant derogations to member states where pesticide use is below 35% of the eu average, such as romania. this approach will allow for a fairer transition and protect farmers' interests while ensuring food security and environmental protection. i call on my colleagues from the various delegations to support this amendment, proposed together with my colleague daniel buda, to ensure a balanced, viable and adapted agricultural policy to the realities of the field.
mr president, dear colleagues, this proposal not only revisits last year’s resolution calling for the revision of the treaties that already included some specific areas to be amended, but is in fact a profound eu reform. while each of us can find in it an element that resonates with the priorities of our voters, looking at the text and its annexes, it would change the entire eu architecture. one starting point was the need for a treaty change to be able to accommodate new member states. yet, instead of having precision surgery on specific points, this project is in fact an amputation of the consensus-based eu decision-making process in key areas. the unanimity provided for in the treaties has in no way prevented meaningful action when there was a political will. in fact, it is never efficient to have a broad legislation based on a single case, as the foreign affairs and the sanctions regime looks like. political priorities come and go. tomorrow, we might have other challenges. but we cannot change the treaties every time we are confronted with a defiance. a union of diverse issues should not aim to eliminate the power of consensus, nor should it aim to impose majority decisions on a minority at all costs, including in the ratification process of the new treaty. even if we accept that we would gain in efficiency in doing so, we would lose more in terms of democratic control. the majority of the proposals reflect a centralist approach. not even one strengthens national or regional competences – this being the opposite of federalism. centralising power in the hands of the eu should never be an aim in itself. the aim should always be to deliver on the needs of our citizens.
madam president, we have debated today the directions that the european union should take before the un climate change conference. first, we must appreciate that the european union is now a leader in action on climate change, proving that we can be a global role model in the fight against climate change. that's why i think all our efforts should not come at too high a cost. we must be vigilant, not to destroy industry and competitiveness and ensure that union action is in the interests of european citizens, both now and in the future. moreover, we need to ensure that all our global partners meet their climate action commitments. thus, our efforts become meaningless and unjust. it's time to create a global equitable approach, to ensure that our contributions to combating climate change are reflected in concrete actions, benefiting the entire planet.
madam president, today we voted on a vital issue: insufficient support for our families and children in europe and, in my country, romania. the pandemic has exposed serious gaps and worrying discrepancies, and the reality is that the government, in my case, romania, is proving incapable of ensuring the well-being of children. we need an ambitious union approach and we need to address the fundamental needs of future generations. free education, affordable healthcare and adequate nutrition should be guaranteed rights, not privileges. instead of looking at powerlessness, we need to become the voice of those parents and children who are neglected. let us build a europe where family support and childcare are not just promises, but realities. our future is shaped by young people, and we have a responsibility to ensure that they grow up in a safe and prosperous environment.
madam president, today, here in the european parliament, i spoke about an unacceptable reality in the european union and in particular in my country, the poverty of millions of children. in the case of romania, the bucharest government finally succeeded in proposing an action plan for the european child guarantee, but with a delay of more than 19 months. children do not have to pay a high price for the indecision of politicians. that is why i think it is very important that this plan addresses all the needs facing the younger generation. poverty, unfortunately, also stems from the severe lack of education that the younger generation faces. the lack of adequate budgetary resources allocated, the lack of free school transport and free educational materials all produce effects on this issue. that is why i think it is essential to focus on implementing the child guarantee at eu level.
madam president, mr prime minister, we are together, the romanians and the bulgarians, the captives of austrian chancellor nehammer on the schengen issue and i know that you are making great diplomatic efforts to unlock both austria's veto and the netherlands' reservations from last year. i'd like to ask you two questions. when i led the romanian government, i worked very closely on the issue of visa elimination for canada with the bulgarian government then and the negotiating force was greater. so i ask you, is there at this moment this kind of offensive and coordination with the romanian partners, with the romanian government? the second question is, are you prepared to accept in these negotiations certain elements that would unlock these negotiations? with a clear decision: council policy of december that both countries join schengen within the next year at the latest, even if this happens in stages, within the next year. so i would like to know if there is - obviously, you won't reveal the details of the negotiations here, but i think it's important that we can have a final decision on schengen accession this year in the council.
madam president, your excellency, mr prime minister, i give bad news to chancellor nehammer: austria is no longer an empire. the days passed when empress maria theresa imposed such high taxes on romanian shepherds that she drove them from their transylvania, across the mountains, to wallachia. hungary has billions of euros suspended for non-compliance with the rule of law, poland as well. nor does austria, which blocks romania and bulgaria's access to schengen and breaches the treaty for no reasonable reason. it's a mystery why the european commission didn't initiate proceedings against austria, which violated five articles of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the blockade of romania and bulgaria has caused hundreds of billions of euros of damage not only to them but to the entire european economy. if mrs von der leyen is promoting the green deal and calling for zero emissions, i respectfully announce something: every year, trucks that wait 24 hours at the border generate 46,000 tons of carbon dioxide. and yet austria escaped when it was precisely the european commission, the guardian of the treaties, that should have demanded compensation. in the jai council for over two weeks, europe has a historic chance to eliminate abuse against romanian and bulgarian citizens. in the event of a negative vote by austria, i respectfully ask the schengen member states to demonstrate their respect and support for romania and bulgaria and to give up on their own initiative any further discrimination against romanians and bulgarians by allowing them access to european countries through the schengen entry gates or colours. as a proof of good faith and certainty, romanians and bulgarians could control austrian trucks, small cars and trains to ensure that illegal migrants do not slip through the austrian state.
the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of the environment. as an institution to be served by citizens or as an institution which justifies its existence by results. i think institutions should be at the service of the people, not vice versa. that those who work and give work be helped and not hindered. because without the work and the value it creates, there is less sustainability of public service. italy is the first country in europe to be subjected to bureaucratic pressure. our government is very clear about this and is simplifying many rules. but europe must also contribute to this process. regulations and directives hinder growth, deter investors, feed the bureaucracy on the backs of the manufacturing sector. i ask this together with the italian farmers, who are faced with 133 regulations and 46 european directives. and i believe that at this point europe must produce a standard, that is, a ceiling on the number of regulations. (the president-in-office takes the floor from the speaker.)
i'm here to tell you, madam president, my fellow representatives. european companies are right to sound the alarm to determine the burden they bear. eurochambers says the business outlook is now the worst since the 2008 crisis. the german family undertakings issued a joint statement that they are already being critically overburdened by the eu rules. companies are facing a number of challenges: economic downturns, high interest rates, geopolitical tensions, fractured supply chains, skyrocketing energy prices. according to businesseurope, brussels has taken 850 new commitments in the last few years, covering 5000 pages, on greening and sustainability. the president of france's largest business representative rightly says that the eu is as frustrated and as revengeful as it is hoping for because of the delusion of standards. the commission has not yet taken any further steps to ensure that the commission is able to implement the measures it has proposed. nothing has been promised for four years, so if there's a new rule, we'll rule out one. the commission should therefore urgently change course, break down red tape and submit its proposals to competitive and smes testing before any company can find its way outside europe.
i am pleased to be able to speak on the subject of reducing regulatory burdens, because it is an important subject for improving the business environment and for improving our competitiveness on a global scale. first of all, in my view, we need to talk about using the resources we have. and that main means is our common market. we need to not only exploit it, we need to complete it and we need to remove the barriers that still exist in the common market in order to benefit more companies and especially citizens. in the next round, it is important to talk about the viability of the law and better access to financial resources. in this regard, i welcome the commission's initiative in the light of the late payment directive, because we need to improve discipline and we need to improve it especially for helping small businesses. the use of digital technologies is also a step in the right direction, with a reduction in regulatory burden. it is important that we not only implement the legal framework we have created here, but also develop digital skills and, above all, improve access to the internet. it's also related to the regulatory burden. i strongly support our common goal of reducing the administrative burden by 25%, but it is important that not only do they not impose new regulations, but that they do not lead to so-called gold plating, that they do not become more regulated in individual countries. so i believe that by working together, we will be more innovative than regulating.
madam president, mr. vice president šefčovič, how much does the bureaucracy cost us? at european level, each administrative procedure requires a large company to take out of its pocket 1 euro per employee, an average company 4 euro per employee and a small company 10 euro per employee. it is therefore not surprising that the administrative burden is the main problem for more than half of smes at european level. bureaucracy costs time, money, human resources, innovation potential, maintaining competitiveness. in addition to what the european commission proposes - and it is a very good initiative to return to a clearer way of reducing administrative costs - part of the administrative burden comes at national level. there are member states that are not yet digitising processes and are not yet creating the reforms that are needed. in 2016, romania had a paper-cutting commission that did just that: remove unnecessary regulations, reduce taxes and the number of forms. meanwhile, even this initiative has been covered in paper. we need national deregulation and digitisation.
mr president, what we are witnessing right now in spain under the leadership of the extreme left-wing communist and socialist government, led by pedro sanchez, is the replacement of the rule of law by the marxists’ rule of chaos, with a purpose to establish a new legal order. to remain in power, pedro sanchez clearly prefers, instead of respecting the constitution, to drive spain into legal chaos by granting amnesty to thousands of people who violated law and the spanish constitution. if individuals who have broken the law and violated the constitution in spain can receive amnesty from a temporary politician to consolidate power, then pedro sanchez is clearly a threat to spain's territorial integrity and sovereignty, as well as to the eu rule of law. the spanish people have spoken already in defence of their country's integrity and the supremacy of their constitution, and the eu must do the same. any politician who chooses to violate his country's constitution to remain in power is a threat to both his country and the eu rule of law. i urge, therefore, the european commission to openly condemn pedro sanchez’s abuses and unconstitutional actions in spain and demand his immediate resignation.
mr. president, cyprus has shown us, in black and white, how european companies in cyprus, this time, are facilitating the transfer of funds on behalf of billionaires putinists, to avoid the eu sanctions imposed following russia's invasion of ukraine. the clandestine transfer of $5 million on the same day that the eu sanctions were imposed is not only a violation of the law, but also a flagrant disregard for the principles underlying our collective commitment to peace, justice and the rule of law. this investigation again shows us the vulnerabilities in sanctions enforcement and highlights the urgency of stronger surveillance. we cannot allow financial institutions to undermine the european union's efforts to hold accountable those responsible for aggression and human rights violations. i call on the council to urgently conclude negotiations for the new anti-money laundering authority and the entire anti-money laundering legislative package. we must deliver and we must stop putinism, in all its forms.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, dear colleagues, i want to thank you for your views and for your comments. before i start concluding, may i reply to ms in ‘t veld, to mr georgiou, to mr fuglsang. i will repeat, the european commission opened an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to cyprus on 14 july this year, on the grounds of its incorrect transposition of the current, fifth anti-money laundering directive. cyprus had notified the complete transposition of the directive, but the commission has identified several instances of incorrect transposition, mainly related to the functioning of the national beneficial ownership register. the commission is closely following once again the situation and assessing recent developments in cyprus, as cyprus has recently launched its electronic system of beneficial ownership register, last week, on 14 november, with the rollout of the entire system planned for 2024, as i said in my introductory remarks. i want to mention some of the measures in the july 2021 anti-money laundering package, which will strengthen our arsenal in the fight against money laundering. first, there is the european anti-money laundering authority. in the commission proposal, the authority will be responsible for supervision and support financial intelligence units. second, the single eu rulebook will bring more consistency, with detailed rules for the private sector in a directly applicable regulation. in the commission proposal, we addressed auditors, trust and company services providers and other enablers. these enablers present specific risks, as emphasised by the international consortium of investigative journalists. the rules in the anti-money laundering regulation would apply also to these operators, not only to banks or financial institutions. our proposed package is also ambitious on the transparency of beneficial owners. non-eu legal entities linked with the european union would have to sign up to the european union’s beneficial ownership registers. we have already agreed on some groundbreaking parts of the package – that includes the transfer of funds regulation and the markets in crypto asset regulation. this means that new technological avenues for money laundering and terrorist financing are covered. we do believe our future rules will help make sure that european union gatekeepers are well supervised and carry out their work well, whether they are inside or outside the financial sector, and regardless of which member states they operate in. so i repeat my call to parliament and the council to conclude negotiations on the anti-money laundering package as soon as possible and with as much ambition as possible. we also have efforts on the taxation side of things. the council recently adopted the eighth administrative cooperation directive. this sets rules for reporting crypto-asset transactions and allows for the automatic exchange of information between tax authorities. finally, it is important that the council addresses the use of shell structures within the european union. we have a directive pending, which should be concluded quickly and ambitiously.
president-in-office of the council. i have listened with great interest to your comments and to the information provided by the commission. as i said in my initial speech, the presidency attaches great importance to the ongoing negotiations on the various instruments to combat money laundering. we are convinced that at the end of the process the union will have better tools to tackle money laundering and terrorist financing. the fight against money laundering is a constant effort which requires constant adaptation and the provision of all the tools to the actors involved. the presidency will therefore remain at the disposal of parliament to discuss this matter as necessary.
mr president, very briefly, i have the feeling that we’re a bit in the twilight zone. there is a massive scandal and the commission says after a debate like this, ‘oh, we’re only responsible to see that eu laws are transposed and the council says everything is fine because we have laws’. who is responsible? we didn’t get an answer to that in this debate. i find this such a lack of respect, not just to the european parliament, but to the european citizen. can we please get an answer from both institutions as to what they’re going to do to make sure that such a scandal cannot happen again, and not because crooks are suddenly good people, but because they will enforce the law.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on council and commission statements on 30 years of copenhagen criteria – giving further impetus to eu enlargement policy (2023/2987(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we have gathered here to reflect on the 30 years of the copenhagen criteria, the fundamental conditions which all candidate countries must meet to become member states. first of all, i would like to stress that enlargement has been a resounding success for the european union. it has helped to unite our continent, overcome historical divisions and create a stronger union. it has, being inspired by the copenhagen criteria, generated transformative reforms and consolidated our common values and principles of democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law. enlargement has also strengthened the european union's influence in the world, which has enabled us to play a more important role on a global scale. the war of aggression by russia against ukraine has reminded us that eu enlargement policy is at the same time a geostrategic investment in the areas of peace, security, stability and prosperity. last year, the european council adopted historic decisions to confirm the european perspective of ukraine, moldova and georgia. it also reiterates its full and unequivocal commitment to the prospect of integration into the eu of the western balkans. enlargement is one of the council's priorities and we will continue to do everything in our power to advance the accession process of candidates in full compliance with the copenhagen criteria. in this context, i would like to remind you that the accession process is a conditional process based on merit. the general requirements remain the same for all candidates: political, economic and administrative criteria must be met to be able to meet the obligations of membership of the european union. basically, as far as the copenhagen criteria are concerned, candidates must be prepared. the renewed 2006 enlargement consensus reaffirms the need for fair and rigorous conditionality, combined with the principle of self-reliance, while also taking into account the capacity of the european union to admit new members. the eu leaders recently agreed on a clear path in this direction in the declaration at the granada summit on 6 october in spain. the council is also working on the enlargement package. it's a package like never before seen, covering ten partners. the commission has made four key recommendations. as you know, the commission recommends that accession negotiations be opened with ukraine and moldova. it also recommends that the council adopt the necessary negotiating frameworks for both candidates once they have adopted certain fundamental measures. as regards georgia, the commission recommends that it be granted candidate country status provided that a series of steps are taken. for bosnia and herzegovina, the commission recommends that accession negotiations be opened once the country has reached the required level of compliance with the accession criteria. the council is currently studying the package, including the reports and these recommendations. the presidency has set itself a clear objective for the general affairs council to adopt the council conclusions on enlargement unanimously on 12 december, which will greatly delight us. then, at the next european council meeting, the leaders of the european union will have to decide on the commission's recommendations.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, 30 years ago the copenhagen criteria were established by the copenhagen european council in 1993 and strengthened by the madrid european council in 1995. they set clear benchmarks on the basis of which aspiring european member states’ accession paths could be assessed. the copenhagen criteria are the following: first, stability and institutions guaranteeing democracy, the rule of law, human rights and respect for, and protection of, minorities. second, a functioning market economy and the ability to cope with competitive pressure and market forces within the european union. and third, the ability to take on the obligations of membership, including the capacity to effectively implement the rules, standards and policies that make up the body of european law, the acquis, and adherence to the aims of political, economic and monetary union. the criteria must be met for accession. they constitute a central element of our enlargement policy and remain a key pillar of our policy. our yearly enlargement reports analyse the stability of institutions, the rule of law, known as the fundamentals of all aspiring european union member states. the functioning market economy and ability to cope with competitiveness are core to the economic chapters. we examine the alignment with the european acquis in our annual enlargement package, and in more detail during the screening process and when opening chapters during accession negotiations. two weeks ago, as all of you know, we adopted a big enlargement package. then country reports for the first time and the growth plan for the western balkans. the commission recommended that the council open accession negotiations with ukraine and moldova. the commission recommended the opening of accession negotiations with bosnia herzegovina. once the necessary degree of compliance with the membership criteria is achieved, latest by march of next year. further, we recommended to grant candidate status to georgia on the understanding that certain steps are taken. a functioning market economy and the ability to cope with competitive pressure and market forces within the european union are equally important as democratic institutions. this is why we are boosting investment and economic growth even before accession. the aim of the growth plan is to boost the economy of the western balkans in the next years, in order to close the socio-economic gap between the union and our partners by the end of this decade. the offer provided by the growth plan is therefore a unique opportunity for the western balkans to speed up their economic growth and convergence with the european union, as well as through targeted reforms accelerating the path towards european union membership. therefore, the growth plan is creating the possibility of early integration of the region into the european union even before they join our union. this house has a key role in making it happen. the financial pillar of the growth plan, the eur 6 billion growth facility, needs to be adopted during the mandate of this parliament, as we have no time to waste. honourable members, the copenhagen criteria have stood the test of time. they capture the essence of what a candidate country needs to do in order to prepare its political, economic and legal system for european membership. but most importantly, they are an expression of the foundation and values on which the european union is built. the existence of institutions guaranteeing democracy, the rule of law, human rights and respect for, and protection of, minorities, the existence of functioning market economies, and the ability to take on the obligations of membership. we must continue building our joint future based on these criteria.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. 30 years of copenhagen criteria i think that were the right criteria in the political and economic spheres at the time, and they have remained so to this day. at the time, they ensured that candidate countries were given a precise framework for their orientation. this is perhaps the difference between the countries that were previously members of the eastern partnership. they did not have this precise framework, because the prospect of accession was not yet in place. and the result was, among other things, that in countries like ukraine, i would say the wild east, in reference to the wild west, the oligarchs continued to build structures, because they thought they could continue to act as they did in ukraine until recently. those who were able to take on this or that at the time of the change in the situation in central europe agreed relatively early on with these criteria: well, now we are moving towards the rule of law, now we have to stick to the framework set out, and in this respect they have, in my view, embraced the rule of law much earlier and have contributed in a way that, economically as well as politically, a framework was set up in the candidate countries which should then be compatible with the european union. i am confident that if we apply and implement these criteria consistently in the political and economic spheres, including with the new candidates for accession also in the western balkans , then this is the precondition for us to get members in the future who will also strengthen the european union in this way, but on the other hand will naturally also strengthen themselves. membership of the european union is a win-win situation for all those who are now members, including thanks to the copenhagen criteria.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, madam commissioner, copenhagen criteria were a remarkable set of rules and political commitments that set the tone and prepared the european union for accepting 10 new member states for following years. the list of priorities was political, economic and then administrative criteria as the last step. already then, special importance was given to the european union’s absorption capacity. thirty years later, we have not done much to increase our absorption capacity. we did not fully deliver on our commitments, but nor did the candidate countries deliver on the needed reforms. we keep prioritising economic agenda, thus maintaining so-called stableocracy. this is most evident in the case of serbia. we have to bring back to the centre clear political criteria guaranteeing democracy and the rule of law. in december, the council has a historic opportunity to deliver on its commitments to ukraine, moldova, georgia, and especially to bosnia and herzegovina. it’s an opportunity that we cannot miss.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, i believe there is no better opportunity to celebrate 30 years since the criteria were defined in copenhagen than with a clear council decision to start eu accession negotiations with moldova and ukraine, with a clear outlook for the western balkans. it is also a good time to put on the table a new vision of european enlargement policy in the face of current realities and geopolitical challenges. because, as we have seen, after each wave of expansion, despite initial concerns, it has proved to be a success and the union has gone from strength to strength. we can now maturely look at a new expansion, to think of the future of the union on a broader scale, but also with a redefined role and responsibility in this region. i would say even more boldly. we cannot allow the narrow interests of governments that constantly attack the values of the union to call into question the european course of moldova and ukraine or to take moldova and ukraine hostage in a decision in the council because a prime minister has a particular interest. the european union can once again show that the main objective for which peace and prosperity within its borders were made can be achieved, this time in a wider space, but also in a deeper way for more citizens.
mr president, commissioner and colleagues, intellexa is registered in ireland. this is the company that has been blacklisted by the us government. the irish government says there is no evidence of export and no export certification under the dual-use regulation. yet intellexa posted revenues of eur 36 million last year in the irish companies registration office. perhaps there is something wrong with the dual-use regulation. how easy is it to monitor the export of code? how easy is it to monitor the export of software? the reality is that the eu is a permissive regulatory environment that has allowed these toxic products to undermine democracy and freedom everywhere. next year, 4 billion people will vote in elections – a record. think of the amount of surveillance of journalists, of activists and of candidates by these products that carry the veneer of eu regulation, that carry the eu stamp. what a shame it is that meps don’t have the power to initiate legislation.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first of all, i want to confirm that all reply has been formally transmitted to parliament. so it’s very clear and we will maybe discuss it again in the future, but you will see that we have sent a formal reply. we understand that in your resolution, you are calling on the commission to present a plan of measures to prevent the abuse of spyware in the european union, making full use of all available legislative and non-legislative means provided by the treaties. i believe that today’s presentation gave you already an overview of some measures already proposed. let me first reiterate that the commission considers that any attempt by national authorities to access citizens’ data illegally, including that of journalists or political opponents, is unacceptable and should be condemned. so, first of all, i want to say that the member states should make sure that their security services respect rules. but when i am speaking about member states, it is not just the government. i am speaking also about independent data protection authorities that we are supporting, and also the independent judiciary. and you know that also we are supporting the independent judiciaries, and we try to work in the different member states to guarantee the independence of the judiciary. so, it is not just to speak about the member states as government. we are speaking also about very clear other entities that are able to act in such a kind of situation, and certainly on data protection, privacy and on security of journalists and fundamental rights, in particular the freedom of expression. i want to confirm that we have taken also some legislative initiatives. i do not want to repeat what i have said in my introduction, but you are now discussing the european media freedom act. and there there are some provisions about the journalists and the possible use of spyware. the same about the cyber resilience act, another legislative initiative that is on the table. of course, for the rest, i have said that enforcement is primarily a national competence of the relevant law enforcement agencies of the member states. but, until recently, there was no legal basis for any discussion and adversary action at the eu level in this area. the new dual-use regulation, however, changes this approach and introduces dedicated provisions on enforcement as part of the overall thrust towards a more effective eu export control system. under the terms of the new regulation, the commission has recently, in 2022, set up a so-called enforcement coordination mechanism, which is mandated with the preparation of concrete actions, for example, for enhancing information exchange between licensing and enforcement agencies. there also we have some capacity to act with the national agencies able to react in such a kind of situation. of course, i have listened to a lot of comments about the use of spyware against citizens. i don’t want to repeat again that it’s unacceptable, but i have listened and saw the necessity to use some kind of spyware or other equipment in the national security issues. certainly in the geopolitical situation that we are living in for the moment, with the war in ukraine and the situation in the middle east, it is quite important that some actors at the national level have the capacity to act with different intrusive instruments to defend the national security. i want just to insist on the fact that when you compare with the situation in the us, the us is not a union, it’s a federal state. when we are listening about some decisions taken in the us, those decisions are taken just on the basis of the national security competence of the federal government. i have had many discussions with our us colleagues and again, that’s an exception in the treaty and is more a competence of the member states. but i have said myself that there are some limits in the way to use different kind of instruments also in national security. in addition to the existing rules and to the proposal i referred to, we are preparing, as i said, a non-legislative initiative. this initiative would clarify the boundaries of and the interplay between eu law, in particular the data protection, a privacy acquis and national security. of course, we will keep you fully informed about this proposal, and i am sure that we’ll have to go back to such a debate with, in our mind, the different provisions of the treaties and the different competence at different levels that i have described: the eu level, but also the level of the member states.
in writing. in continuing the debate we had at the last session, we return today with a new discussion in which we wish to reiterate our request to the commission for a coordinated european response and a coherent legislative framework on intrusive spy programmes. we need a european response because, as much as we may dislike admitting it, spyware is a european problem, with tools made in the eu and exported to other parts. i have also witnessed politicians, including meps and commission officials, as well as journalists, being spied on in europe, which is a real attack on democracy. we cannot end this attack on democracy unless we have clear rules at european level to prevent these abuses. we now have the european act on freedom of the press on the negotiating table, which also contains a bold proposal from the commission on espionage. and the european parliament has introduced additional guarantees. i hope that we will also have a critical mass of member states at council level who will show courage. national security defence cannot be used as a blank check to allow surveillance of journalists and to open the way to all types of abuse.
the report also highlights the importance of the european union's efforts to promote the development of the single market. it is a shame that in the 2020s we still have to fight for the protection of women from total inviolability and the right to live nonviolently in societies. it is a shame that we have to discuss this same issue within the european union. as we are now ratifying the istanbul convention, which prohibits all violence against women through a directive, albeit in a rather limited form, it has been quite confusing to have to debate with the council whether rape is a form of violence against women that is sexually typical within the scope of this directive. i think that this is a situation which deserves the attention of all european women and men and the recognition that it is not always the member state that best defends the interests of its citizens. it is often the european parliament and the commission in their own affairs. women are people. we are therefore also entitled to women's rights and human rights, and women's rights are therefore part of human rights. this means that women have the right to freedom from physical, mental and structural violence, including the lack of services or the denial of sexual and reproductive health rights. the european union must be the leading force in the front lines of the fight against violence against women, both internally and externally.
mr president, i am glad that finally we have ratified the istanbul convention as a european union. but i ask myself: why did it have to take so long when our values are so clearly enshrined in our treaty? but the istanbul convention alone is not enough. this week in malta, in my country, we remembered the murder of bernice cassar last year, murdered by her former husband. the istanbul convention alone did not save her. we need to change hearts and minds. we need to empower women and young girls in our schools. we need to give men and young boys a reality check. i urge all member states – and i start from mine, malta – to stop the resistance that we are currently finding in the council in including a clearly defined rape in the directive on gender-based violence. rape is a result of no consent, and this must be written down in the directive, and we need to do it now. so i start from my home country. we did it at home. let’s do it now in the european union.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to have to go to the police. it is good that men have a voice in the european parliament on this issue. and it is good that this case is something that brings together, that unites meps from different parts of our house. it's an important message to the world. i think that in this case, unanimity, or almost unanimity, is important, necessary and expected. we can talk about different forms of violence here, often systemic violence, violence that even in some countries in africa and asia, has roots in certain habits, traditions, customs, which does not change the fact that it continues to be violence and in the 21st century, it must be said very clearly, very clearly that it is violence, even if it is rooted in a certain culture of the society. nevertheless, the red light must be shed on this form of violence, even where it is sometimes socially acceptable. it is good that our european parliament has a clear message on this matter.
question addressed under the blue card issuer procedure. mr. reil, the last time i asked you a question, i used your language, but now i want you to make an effort to listen to my language as well. it's a shame that you, in this debate, are bringing this hate speech and this hate is generating that violence that you were talking about. it is very regrettable for this parliament and for this day to bring the debate to a close. i'm sorry about your performance.
mr president, domestic terrorism kills thousands of women and hundreds of their children every year, based on discrimination, on prejudices burned into many subconscious minds. we all have a first and indispensable responsibility: to identify and combat inequality; to learn and teach how to eradicate it in everyday life; to assume that equality is a basic element of the quality of our rule of law and to act accordingly. we have work to do: combat the abuse of power and domination and prejudice that drive women's murderers; denounce the premature consumption of pornography in the field that frees up hypocritical and mocking opposition to sex education in schools; support the formation of police, judges, units of care for victims of gender-based violence; join demonstrations condemning machismo crimes; rebel against laws that curtail women's rights, that undermine our sexual and reproductive health. on the path to equality, to stop is to back down. in the europe of values, no member state can turn its back on the istanbul convention.
mr president, commissioners, 51 women have been murdered in spain, two of them in galicia, murdered for gender-based violence this year. but this fact is only the tip of the iceberg of machismo rooted in our society, since behind the numbers are lives destroyed by machismo terrorism. on this 25 november we want to denounce that femicide and brutal, transversal and structural violence permeate all spheres of society, some more visible and others invisible, subtle, hidden. these violence are present: in galicia alone there were more than 3,400 reports of gender-based violence in the first half of the year, and yet we see how it is denied and trivialized by certain parties and far-right forces. we need to keep wearing the purple glasses to detect all male-dominated behavior and fight it. only then will we achieve a more equal society, here, in europe and in the world. and as they end the demonstrations that have taken place in my country, here, here you see galician feminism standing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i have a déjà vu experience: as a german member of parliament i am experiencing something the second, third, perhaps even fifth time: a situation where germany is blocking something in the council, even though it has been implemented in germany for a long time. you may remember with me the women on board policy. the women on boards directive had been implemented in germany for a long time, but angela merkel had blocked it in the council. now it 's similar . the theme of 'no means no', the theme of 'yes means yes' has been implemented in germany for some time. and that is why i want to address the german minister of justice, mr bushmann, in a very specific way: how can it be that germany is blocking something in the council that germany thinks is good for german women? how can it be that germany is blocking something in the council and thus not allowing european women to participate in the same legal instrument? i can't understand it. our justice minister bushmann of the fdp wants to block the council from including rape as a definition in the directive. we must not allow that to happen. it cannot be that the great country of germany in europe is blocking this directive.
thank you, dear chair, honourable commissioners, colleagues and colleagues, almost 736 million women over the age of 15 worldwide have experienced intimate partner violence or sexual violence by non-partners. these are not just world bank statistics, these are the voices, the faces and the lives of women who demand our immediate action. i'll give you a good example from my country croatia. the amendments to the criminal code in criminal procedure include recognition of femicide offences and stricter penalties for rapists, including longer prison sentences for rape. maybe it's a good way. this is a significant step, and we must agree to it. but what do we need? key measures: facilitate the reporting of violence, give women more opportunities to seek help, increase awareness and training of police and judicial personnel and increase women's financial independence. we need to address these structural inequalities. most of the rapists remain unregistered, and we have statistically proven that, for fear of reporting the rapists. we've heard data - covid has made all this worse. the un released a shocking report yesterday that violence last year was the highest in 20 years. almost 89,000 women and girls have been subjected to violence. weakening is just using violence against women to make us feel bigger, and we don't turn our heads, we don't close windows, we just go out loud and report violence. this will bring about a change in our society and we will be truly equal.
mr president, commissioner, when we are in this european parliament talking about the international day for the elimination of violence against women, it is good to note that in this parliament we have achieved, no less, that the european union ratifies the istanbul convention, which is the great sign of commitment to the elimination of all forms of violence against women and has created a common standard in europe. because there are member states - and i say this with satisfaction - that stand out, like spain, while others are further behind. but this must also be brought into contact with the legislative work we are doing: the update of the victim protection directive and, of course, the directive on combating violence against women, which must be completed before the end of this mandate. and in parallel, the update of the directive on the prevention and fight against trafficking in human beings, which seeks to show the way for member states to sanction all forms of consumption of trafficking victims and exploitation not only of labour but also of sex, with a clear message to the prostitution landscape that is being challenged throughout the european union against trafficking victims, an area in which the european union has to legislate with great determination. i conclude by saying that this work is an expression of a commitment still pending: to complete accession to the european convention on human rights so that we can clearly say that all forms of discrimination and violence against women are a violation of human rights.
mr vice-president, madam vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, over 50% of the population of the european union, some 225 million people, are women. in our century, in our times, when we embraced democratic values, when we recognized human rights as the foundation of our society, we still talk about violence against women as a massive, real phenomenon that affects far too many women: from physical abuse to economic dependency, to traditions and customs that still teach women to forgive and even to places that don't offer safety to women who want or have to walk alone on the streets at night. all of these can and should be considered forms of violence against women. we can pass laws, we can enforce them, and we can do that, but in order for violence to stop being a massive phenomenon, we have to change our mindsets. we need to educate boys and men that violence against women cannot be and is not acceptable in our society, by all of us.
mr president, dear colleagues, it is odd to hear left-wing meps today pretending to care about violence against women, when in fact they constantly vote to undermine the identity, safety and protection offered to women by the law. there is no bigger threat or form of violence against women than to claim, or even vote, that there is no difference between men and women, or that any man who pretends or claims to be a woman should, in the eyes of the law, be treated as a woman. based on this absurd premise, male perverts who pretend to be women are allowed now in different countries to serve criminal sentences in female prisons, where some of them physically and sexually assault women. sportsmen who failed in their male categories are now allowed to compete in female sports category, where they obviously win. male perverts who pretend to be women can walk fully exposed in women’s spas or even women’s restrooms without any repercussions. men – and even ugly men – compete now in women’s beauty contests, where they absurdly even win. the legal protection that we must offer to women against any kind of violence must start from the premise that a woman is different than a man. biology and genetics are real, while gender ideology and trans activism clearly leads to violence against women. allowing a man who pretends to be a woman to be seen in the eyes of the law as a woman is exposing the actual woman to violence, discrimination and abuse in ways never seen before, and this insanity must stop.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union must give priority to cooperation over integration whenever possible. this is a point of view that i have been advocating for a long time. cooperation respects the sovereignty of the member states better than integration. for example, civil, criminal and commercial justice are legal areas which must continue to fall within the competence of the states, and even their exclusive competence in relation to the first two. but in crossborder cases, it is legitimate to promote cooperation between the various national courts at european level. this will help to better defend the commercial interests of companies operating in several states and to better organise the criminal repression of terrorism and organised crime, which are essentially borderless. i therefore endorse the commission's projects to improve crossborder judicial cooperation, in particular by promoting its digitisation. i support the radev reports which have been substantially modified in strict respect for national sovereignty. i particularly approve of their concern to ensure that judicial hearings are conducted by videoconference, because like mr radev, i believe that videoconferences in the field of justice should only be accepted with the utmost caution.
mr. chairman, i also want to congratulate the reporters and all the shadow reporters and the commission on agreeing to this justice package. i think this is an extremely big success and that it will bring about a huge acceleration in litigation that has a cross-border element and where we often wait months for some evidence to be produced in the requested country or for one judicial authority to respond in writing to another judicial authority. that's what we learned from practice. i myself feel that we are waiting weeks for the czech judiciary to have a judicial authority from another european union country answer a question or a request. the main thing is that we deliver in writing, that we don't deliver electronically, that electronic communications are basically not working properly these days. this package will bring about a definite change, a change for the better. justice will be able to work faster in cross-border disputes and fast justice means, friends, just justice. that's why i welcome this and congratulate you once again. i want to say that some elements, such as the use of videoconferencing, have been discussed on the european union soil for years. i remember 15 years ago, when i was the minister of justice, there was a conference on the use of video conferencing in cross-border litigation. and bye, we finally have this design that's realized and dreams and visions become reality. so i think this package is a very good compromise. i'm not afraid he might be abused in some way. in my opinion, the procedural rights of the parties are protected. there's also enough data protection to work with. so i support it and congratulate the authors once again.
the commissioner, the rapporteur, my colleagues, has been very active in this area. digitalisation is one of the priorities the european union has taken together with the member states since the beginning of this mandate. the judicial system must follow this policy line, as digitalisation can make both the legal service and access to justice significantly more efficient. if we are talking about judicial cooperation between neighbouring countries in border regions, this digitisation is all the more necessary, since interoperable systems can allow citizens to access the judicial process without, for example, having to travel to the neighbouring country, thus providing new tools for citizens in border areas when they have to turn to the judiciary. however, it is of the utmost importance that specialists in this field are directly involved in the digitisation process, taking into account the specificities and challenges of the compatibility and interoperability of such digital systems.
in writing. – in recent years, particularly after the pandemic, the impact of mental health issues on europeans has intensified while disproportionately affecting the younger generation. official data reveals a doubling of depression symptoms after the pandemic. moreover, studies highlight the real scale of the problem we were already facing. pre-2019, mental health issues were impacting over 80 million individuals and costing eur 600 billion (4% of the eu’s gdp) in the european union alone. addressing these issues requires comprehensive public health measures beyond national governments. hence, i’ve advocated for a european mental health plan since 2021. while progress, such as the commission’s plan for a comprehensive approach to mental health, has been made, it is frustratingly slow. disparities persist in the cost and accessibility of mental health services across the eu as well as in the level of ambition of national policies aiming to tackle these issues. while such initiatives are welcome, they are insufficient for the millions enduring, or who will endure, mental health issues. immediate, more ambitious efforts are needed, including supporting the extension of eu competencies in public health. this would empower the eu to better and more effectively support member states to tackle and prevent mental health issues.
the following is a list of one-minute speeches. you can use them from your own place, and a minute is really a minute.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there will be a big event here tomorrow, the awarding of an extraordinary woman, mahsa amini, who unfortunately will not be here with us because iran does not allow her to come to strasbourg to collect this award. the discrimination we are witnessing against him today is only one of many discriminations iran is continually making against minorities. i would like to say that i am not going to be able to accept the amendments tabled by the commission. they are not given any rights, the regions where they live are underfunded. every day in iran, there is discrimination against a minority, and i ask myself, the european union will be able to accept this for how long? how long will it not agree to impose real sanctions to punish this state which makes anti-democracy and persecution of minorities its rule?
madam president, madam commissioner, dear colleagues, i have chosen to speak today about the functioning of the internal market. - why? - i don't know. i celebrated my 30th birthday. we have four months left, this parliament and the commission, and i think it is time to think about what we are leaving behind, what we are giving to the next parliament. is the internal market working or not? here's the answer, and today, in the debate on fiscal policy, we have a lot of areas with regional disparities, with people with very different incomes, the gap between the high incomes of a few european citizens and a lot of poor people. and we have another problem: we don't have a single market; in the internal market we still have two spaces. i hope that by the end of the mandate there will still be one single market, as we call it, because that is what the european union was created for. this is where it started, from a single market and i hope that yes, and my country, romania, as well as bulgaria, will be in the schengen area.
president. - this is the second time i have called the attention of the european parliament to the surcharge scandal in the netherlands. when fraud was suspected, tens of thousands of parents were labeled and registered as fraudsters without judicial intervention. the parents affected by the untracked tracking device lost their jobs, their homes, their businesses. thousands of children have been displaced. some parents have fled abroad with their children. there have even been known cases of suicide. all those affected are living in a nightmare and waking up is not possible. the dutch government has pleaded guilty, but this scandal was first kept under wraps for years. it has made mistakes in drafting the laws, in enforcing them, and is still not working to compensate for all the damage it has caused to citizens. the worst part is: it is obvious that the same dutch government cannot learn from its mistakes. in fact, such a scandal is happening again and i see the future in a bleak light. the system is failing and the citizens are the dupes and the drivers are completely insensitive to the suffering they are causing. meanwhile, the managers are once again looking for a new, beautiful international job. i hold my heart for what they 're going to ... (the president deprives the speaker of the floor)
madam president, in romania, students and students are preparing for the christmas holidays, but they may return to some empty schools. that's because, again, the government's lack of respect for teachers has no limits. tens of thousands of teachers took to the streets last summer and left just because they were promised a 40 percent pay rise. the students ask that the man in front of them be respected, so that they too can respect him. as the deadline approaches, we're curious to see what rabbit prime minister chiolacu pulls out of his job. surprisingly, however, the promise made in the summer will not be kept: wages will rise by 13%, only a third of what the romanian government promised them (if they do). i urge the romanian government to keep its promises to teachers, because in this way they keep their promises to romania of the future, they keep their promises to educated romania. without it, we have no future.
madam president, commissioner, this month, on 4-5 december, the jai council was held and, unacceptably, only the prospect of entry into the schengen area for romania and bulgaria was discussed on the agenda. it is not clear, commissioner, why a member state of the european union restricts the right of 25 million european citizens to enjoy the opportunities of the european single market. we are restricted to fundamental rights, such as free movement of goods within the schengen area and free movement of goods from romania and bulgaria. we believe that the commission must be right at this moment and correct the vienna government, which unjustifiably blocks the entry of romania and bulgaria into the schengen area. it is incomprehensible how we can ask our partners to respect european standards and eu member states to keep romania and bulgaria out of the schengen area for 16 years.
madam president, at the end of this term we are witnessing the european commission, led by ursula von der leyen, desperately wanting to have european regulations voted by the european parliament that effectively transform the eu from a space of freedom into a prison where people are constantly monitored and monitored so that the government knows where they are moving and what they are selling and buying. the european commission lied to the european parliament and eu citizens when it proposed the digital wallet and said it would not be used for the digital euro currency. at the end of the digital wallet trilogy, commissioner breton said, i quote, 'now that we have the wallet, we have to put something in it', making explicit reference to the digital euro currency. we are currently working on the digital euro currency, and the regulations explicitly stipulate that this type of digital money will be used through the digital wallet. i ask the commissioner why you are not being sincere when you propose a regulation to be voted on in this parliament. under ursula von der leyen, clearly, the eu is turning into a tyranny. i hope that by 2024 europeans will vote in the european parliament a conservative majority that restores freedom in the eu.
in the name of the left faction. the commission has already taken a number of steps. when the commission proposal was on the table, not only i but also large parts of civil society were really concerned that this law would become a gift to industry. it was clear to our group and others that social and environmental guidelines and stricter requirements for project developers, high environmental standards, good work, respect for human rights were needed. the european parliament's negotiations and the european parliament's position were all the more pleasant. i would like to thank the rapporteur very much. this includes what was particularly important to us besides the social and environmental guidelines the principle of free, prior and informed consent for indigenous peoples, but also the clear rejection of deep-sea mining and the tightening of requirements for projects if they are to maintain their status as strategic. so, the trilogy, as always, has relativised things as we know them. it is difficult enough, but i think that certain points must be reconsidered, for example when it comes to voluntary and prior consent given in the light of the situation. we have mixed feelings there. yes, it's good that the project developers now have to present plans for consultation with indigenous communities, minimize basic damage, make compensation. but the clear consensus principle that would have been more important to us was that we would formulate it again. because over 50 percent of strategic raw materials are found on and near indigenous territories. the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. i think a lot has been done here, and i hope that the implementation speaks for itself.
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the external dependence of the european union on critical raw materials is an obstacle to our future. we need to use the resources we have, removing bureaucratic barriers to responsible and sustainable mining. this legislation on critical raw materials is a step in the right direction. at the same time, at member state level, it is essential that processes are conducted in a transparent manner, involving local authorities, the population and the business social fabric in the decisions taken. in portugal, my country, unfortunately, the incumbent government has chosen an opaque strategy on lithium mining and the consequences, as would be expected, have been very negative. you don't defend the public interest by acting on the public's own conscience.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. wind power plants, electric cars, mobile phones, computers, space for most of the products of the future, european production depends on raw materials that need to be imported. because we probably won't always see the successes we had earlier this year when sweden discovered the largest european rare earths ever. the commission has therefore to continue to look for them. that is why it is good that the permitting deadlines have been reduced, but mining is not sustainable, of course, because it is not growing. i am pleased that as a social democrat, there are high standards for occupational safety and the environment in this area. but recycling is sustainable. the objective must be to meet 25% of european demand in this way. i am happy to come from a region in germany, north rhine-westphalia, where this is already happening in a very exemplary way in terms of technology and business. research into substitution products must also be possible. wouldn't it be great to replace lithium with sodium? all this can reduce european dependence. the more independent europe becomes, the more we restrict the power of dictators, autocrats and warlords, and that would be good news for the world.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the report (doc. we have these raw materials, of course, which are essential for the conversion to renewable energy. it's good that europe is waking up. but let's definitely avoid a new commodity journey and move smarter. what are we supposed to do? we must commit to reuse our raw materials with binding recycling targets. we have to choose between bicycles, public transportation and electric utility vehicles. for the first time, we are also introducing in this text really explicit measures to limit the growing demand for raw materials. so of course we need less energy and less raw materials, and i think the benefits are really huge. because we reduce our dependence on dubious regimes, we create more local jobs in the circular industry, our stuff lasts longer, and our wallet benefits from that, too. that's good for our planet, that's good for our economy, that's good for us.
mr. speaker, what is this? today, china has a monopoly on critical raw materials needed for electric cars, wind and solar panels. just as the eu used to depend on russian gas, we are now dependent on china. you just trade one dictatorship for another. anyone who thinks that prices of renewable energy will fall forgets that china in its geopolitical game can easily raise prices whenever they want. to think that they will not use the raw materials for a political power play is just naive. we must do everything we can to reduce this dependence. it is therefore absolutely necessary that we open up new swedish mines. unfortunately, that won't be enough. no matter how many mines we open, we're not gonna get rid of the addiction. the decommissioning of nuclear power and the utopian dream of 100 percent renewable energy gave china open targets. mistakes have already been made, and we will have to pay for them in the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to vote again on a proposal for a regulation on critical raw materials after negotiations with other institutions. finally, you admit your mistakes. for years we have been denouncing your ultra-liberal policy, which has created unfair competition and made us dependent on imports of raw materials essential to our industries. but now you seem to be waking up. better late than never, even if it took far too long. finally, you agree that countries must be able to finance future industrial projects, like our international competitors. you are even trying to reduce our dependence by setting targets for partial autonomy and limiting imports from third countries. we are pleased to see that you finally acknowledge that we must not tolerate the importation of goods produced in an environmentally unfriendly and human rights-contrary manner. we will vote in favour of this report because it serves europe's interests and once again demonstrates the failure of the european union. better late than never, but how much time have we wasted because of your inaction?
mr. speaker, what is this? we will most likely see more mining in the eu in the near future. we need minerals and metals for our electric cars, wind turbines and solar panels. that is why it is so important that this mining is carried out in an environmentally and socially sustainable way. we're going to break down metals in a way that respects the environment. we're going to do this in a way that respects the rights of the indigenous people. we're going to do this in a way that makes the least possible way we can impoverish the earth. i have worked hard to ensure that this legislation which we are voting on today takes all this into account, that we have proper environmental testing, that we respect the rights of indigenous peoples - not least the sami people in sweden and finland - and that we are already taking the necessary steps to reduce our dependence on these minerals, just as we are going to reduce our dependence on energy. we must have the courage to take those steps and debate that right now while we make decisions about new mines. unfortunately, my own swedish government has opposed environmental testing and indigenous rights. they have undermined the work of parliament. it is clear to us that this legislation, as it appears today, does not meet the requirements that we should be able to put forward and that we have on such important legislation. if we are to succeed in the transition, if we are to succeed in having an ecologically and socially sustainable breakthrough, it must be both fair, environmentally friendly and based on democratic decisions.
mr president, i consider this agreement on the sustainability of the extraction and supply of critical raw materials to be very important. we have a responsibility not only to our own citizens but also to third countries where such mining is often carried out. we know that we need raw materials for industry and for our further development, especially technological. but we should act responsibly. so i'm very happy that we're supporting a lot more recycling of existing materials in this proposal, that we're increasing that target to 25 percent, that we're supporting it more than another new mining, and that, for me, that means we're not going to export as much electronic waste to africa and other countries where it can kill young children. we're going to start extracting more in europe. i also consider this 10% target very important. it means that we also want to increase production capacity in our processing industry and reuse raw materials that we already extract. we will limit our modern colonialism, which we as the european union are doing, by extracting raw materials from third countries. we're gonna use what we have right now. i also consider the 40% target for processing in europe to be very good because it brings more jobs to our citizens.
mr president, commissioner, as we know, digital technologies are decisive for the development of innovation and competitiveness in our industry. and no one could doubt that, to fully develop digital technologies and other technologies, we need fundamental raw materials. thanks to parliament, the agreement with the council provides for faster licensing procedures for extraction, better recycling and waste management policies and a wider list of essential raw materials. the inclusion of raw materials such as aluminium and graphite, which play a key role in industrial value chains, is a contribution from parliament which we should congratulate. in addition, international partnerships with reliable third countries are important, as has been pointed out here: these countries have greater stability which makes them, as i said, more reliable. and particular attention must also be paid to those to whom the projects financed by the european union belong. in short, to strengthen the competitiveness of european industry in a global context and to further consolidate our strategic sovereignty, this legislation is of paramount importance and is also a tangible example of the added value of the european union.
mr president, commissioner breton, dear colleagues, the critical raw materials act is a clear statement of intent. we want the eu to be a visionary and astute geopolitical actor with the tools to match that ambition. besides the important trade and environmental aspects that this agreement covers, we are stepping up the game in strengthening our resilience and fostering our priorities in a divided world with many challenges to come. with this act, we are creating the right conditions, sourcing the right materials for achieving the green and digital transition objectives. by boosting investment and encouraging innovation within the union and beyond its borders, we reduce dependencies so that we can remain competitive without renouncing our values, refusing to be economically and politically coerced. i think this is one of the major achievements of this legislature, and i want to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadows for the work done in this file.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr commissioner, we are discussing the right to disconnect from work and i am proud to be part of this legislature alongside colleagues like agius saliba and we were able to put something on the table, which is very important. if we sit and think about how many hours we spend with loved ones, how many hours we romanians or european citizens generally spend with family, we find that this time is narrowing. in 2021, parliament asked the european commission to prepare this directive to support the right of employees to disconnect from their work in their spare time. why is this right vital? during the pandemic, we saw how digital tools have allowed continuing activity, courses. these things were essential to overcoming the crisis, but at the same time, they were challenging the clear boundaries between work and personal time. with telecommunications now the norm, we must focus on finding a balance between work and personal life, which the european parliament has been demanding for many years. the right to disconnect is not just about separating work time from rest time. it's about establishing healthy and ethical workplace behavior, which is extremely useful, especially for future generations who are entering and preparing to enter the labor market. in light of these realities, we must recognize that professional life should not compromise personal life in any way. let's ensure, let's give the proper importance to a balanced life and make the right to disconnect a reality for all. this is what european citizens expect of us and we must work with the commission and the council to achieve this.
madam president, dear commissioners, democracy is not there only to be protected, but we also need to strengthen it. and while all politicians elected are there, not on their own behalf, but on behalf of those that elected them, they should also be transparent. so when i read today’s proposal, while i am happy to see that we are going to defend and strengthen a little bit when it comes to foreign interference, we need to look at within the european union too, because in reality we have those trying to undermine our democracy from among us. even in this house, in the different member states, their governments, we all know what viktor orbán is doing in hungary, we all have seen what was happening in poland before, and we really need to make sure that when we have interest representatives, whether they come from outside of the union or from within, we need to have a mandatory transparency register. i remember in 2016 the proposal of the commission, it was a good one, but it was then watered down by the council, by the different governments, because they did not want to have a mandatory transparency register. all the meetings we hold in this house or in any parliament across the union or any government across the union should be published. we should know who our politicians are meeting, why they are meeting them and the outcome of those meetings.
madam president, defence of democracy means enhancing transparency and it also means public participation, protecting journalists, empowering civil society, investing in education, in critical thinking and informed decision-making. it means keeping a strong framework for the rule of law and sanctioning those who ignore it. it means free voices. while we are fully aware of the importance of such a package, we need to be extremely careful on which particular instruments we choose to defend and not to harm the watchdogs of democracy. the foreign funding directive raised such concerns among the representatives of the civil society, and i’m calling on you, commissioners, and on all of our colleagues, to pay particular attention to such voices. they know best how to defend democracy. they’re doing it every day.
madam president, ladies commissioner, i consider this an extremely important moment, given that we see that the russian federation is investing enormously to disinformation and manipulate the citizens of the european union. i call on the european commission to have the courage to come up with a bold package of measures to combat the tools of disinformation and manipulation of european citizens, in a context where we need more than ever solidarity and concrete action to defend democracy. the tools russia uses today in europe show as clearly as possible that they are working, because the vast majority of european decision-makers fear public opinion, which is unfortunately manipulated. the best example is the war in ukraine. we need to have the courage to look at reality and act now.
mrs president, commissioner, while we are debating the package for the defence of democracy, spain holds the presidency of the council of the european union and tomorrow pedro sánchez will speak for the first time in strasbourg. for six months now, pedro sánchez has been running away from the european parliament. this is only because the rule of law is being violated in spain. in a democracy, no leader of a party even more so having lost elections can change crimes, penalties, grant pardons and amnesty in exchange for gaining power, as pedro sánchez does. justice is not a business, nor can it be manipulated based on anyone's personal or partisan interests. in a democracy, parliaments do not interfere in judicial decisions, wanting to create investigative committees to review court decisions. in a democracy, politicians do not threaten judges who disagree with an amnesty that violates the constitution and the european treaties, as the sumar radicals do, by filing a complaint against judges we want free. in a democracy, rules are not changed so that constitutional courts can be a political instrument of governments. in spain, at this moment, the rule of law, the principle of separation of powers, is being violated and there is intolerable pressure on judges, typical of totalitarian states. let us imagine that this was happening in poland or hungary, what would the left not be saying and demanding here? let's think about this when we talk about democracy. mostly, we do something.
madam president, ladies commissioner, mrs jourová, mrs šuica, protecting democracy means more than respecting the law, especially now that disinformation and fake news are being used massively as a weapon against us, the european union, against democratic values. we're witnessing a shift not only in values but also in reality and scientific truth. the views we encourage as a democratic exercise cannot cancel out years of study and hard work on which the progress of our society is based. the way in which the image of the war in ukraine is being attempted to turn into an unjustified attack on an independent state (and i am glad that colleague tomac recalled this) into a simple territorial dispute in which the attacker is portrayed as a hero; the way in which the suffering of so many generations who have suffered because of dictatorial regimes is being tried to be cancelled and hidden; all this is a danger all the greater the more the target our young people are, the future of the european union. we must recognize that these misinformation are real attacks on democracy, our countries and the european union, and we must act accordingly.
mr. president, mr. high representative, no crime can ever be justified in any form or form, but it's almost three months since this bloody attack by a terrorist group that doesn't care what happens in israel or gaza. so i think it's very important not to distort reality and to look at what's happening there clearly. those who provoked this barbaric attack are also responsible for its consequences. they want peace? we all want peace, but it can't be under any circumstances and anyway, for a very simple reason: because there are still innocent people out there waiting to be released and we must stand by them to help israel at this delicate moment.
executive vice-president of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, the debate today testifies how important it is to hold russia accountable, also when it comes to the devastating environmental consequences of its war of aggression against ukraine. i trust and welcome that you will continue to keep environmental damages caused by the war on your political agenda. what happens in ukraine impacts the entire world. damages are not just national: consequences go beyond borders and impact wider regions. it is not only about agriculture and food, it is also clean air, fresh water, human health and the whole natural habitat. nature and peace are interconnected: harm one and you will harm the other. numerous challenges will remain to hold perpetrators accountable but the eu, as an international forerunner on climate and environmental protection, should definitely play a role in this process. in the meantime, we also need to focus on actual rehabilitation and restoration of damages done to nature in a broader sense. repairing ecosystems and natural infrastructures is a vital part of rebuilding the ukrainian economy and to ensure the prosperity and well-being of all ukrainians in the long run. it is important that we help ukraine to rebuild and recover in a way that will ensure its prosperity for decades to come, avoiding being stranded with a resource-consuming or polluting and health-harming infrastructure. the eu stands ready to continue to support the ukrainian administration to make sure the recovery is as sustainable as it can be in this precarious situation.
the debate is closed. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 17 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 and in accordance with article 21 thereof.
in writing. while in many parts of the world people light festive candles in preparation for the celebration of peace, christmas, rocket attacks in eastern ukraine are shaking the landscape, setting fires in forests, fields, cities, and villages. we are writing the 657th day of the aggressive war launched by russia, ukraine has suffered huge human losses, millions of people have been forced to leave their homes, but what is less talked about is the silent victim of the war: the environment that is unmovingly tolerating the cruel everyday. in the european union and in many countries, there is a huge emphasis on environmental protection, the green transition, sometimes in ridiculous ways trying to change our daily lives, all by highlighting the harmful effects on the environment. however, very little is said about the damaging effects of war. no one demands a ceasefire, although it is certain that only peaceful means can end the terrible effects of war on the human race. maintaining war requires enormous resources, massive fuel consumption, missile attacks, explosions, burning buildings, factories, air and soil pollution, heavy metals and toxic substances entering the air and water, destroying the ecosystem, which will take decades to restore. if we feel a duty to protect nature, we must take action for peace today! with peace, we can prevent terrible disasters, such as the explosion of the nova kahovka dam, which caused immeasurable environmental damage.
the next item on the agenda is the report by mr tonino picula on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs on the european parliament's recommendation to the council, the commission and the vice-presidents of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on eu-us relations (2023/2126(ini)) (a9-0372/2023).
rapporteur. – mr president, high representative, representatives of institutions, dear colleagues, the idea of this report was to summarise some expectations and recommendations on transatlantic relations as our position ahead of the elections next year on both sides of the atlantic. our imperative is to send a clear message on how we see our cooperation, and what it should be in the months and years to come to protect this long standing fundamental alliance and make it as resilient as possible to the various elections outcomes. strong transatlantic cooperation is founded on the principle that a partnership of joint leadership and responsibility is necessary to weather the storm of multiple crises on both sides of the atlantic. we must not refrain from repeating that the us is the eu’s most significant political and economic partner, and vice versa. russian aggression on ukraine changed many things. it’s the most direct attack on international law. it’s also the clearest example of reversing the multilateral system since the fall of the berlin wall. for 70 years, international order, representation of democratic values, open societies and the protection of human and minority rights has been based on cooperation between the usa and eu. that cooperation has come under pressure in the recent years, but one, and probably the only, positive outcome following the aggression is additional revitalisation of transatlantic relations. the solidarity wave across the eu and globally, and the european union’s joint responsive and member states commitments are unprecedented. we stood united in the most challenging times and this crisis has proven it once again. it is essential to emphasise that we see the difficulties with approving new tranches of help in congress, and we are still awaiting the outcome of the council. standing together against russia’s war of aggression and helping ukraine will be even more crucial in the months to come, and must remain our joint commitment. overall, our relations have been in a good shape lately. we can only commend all the concrete outcomes of the increased cooperation, such as two eu-us summits, trade and technology council dialogues on indo-pacific china and defence and collaboration on critical raw materials. however, we cannot miss to mention the challenges that remain, particularly with era adoption, where most of our concerns were not taken into account and pending issues on tariffs remain. this report contains clear recommendations on what our partnership should entail in relation to china. in the pacific region, western balkans, africa and other global partners, as well as on security and defence. in light of multiple threats and crises confronting both sides of the atlantic, we must continue strong transatlantic cooperation. together, we must defend multilateralism and tackle the dangerous geopolitical realities that affect common values, interests, security and prosperity. this is why both sides must reinforce the resilience of their democratic systems to resist both external and internal threats, like increased disinformation and foreign interference from authoritarian political forces and regimes in the electoral process. it would be excellent as well, if the european union were doing some contingency planning from our side in case things do not go as desired, because the alternative is an administration that sees our partnership values, security and the world very differently. we want more cooperation and leadership in equal partnership whenever possible. however, we also expect the eu to build its open strategic autonomy. a strong european union is the best answer to all challenges and also the best partners for the united states.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, the relationship between the european union and the us is certainly of the utmost importance. so your report is very much timely, especially in these times of geopolitical turmoil. but we can say that this relation is in a very good shape. your first new recommendation, you said, and i quote, ‘fostering an even stronger, mutually beneficial partnership in leadership and responsibility between the us and the eu, to defend multilateralism’ – something that we repeat all the time – ‘to tackle the global challenges and the new and dangerous realities.’ yes, this reflects the roadmap for the us partnership, a partnership that is more necessary than ever if we want to achieve our objectives. take into consideration that our trade and investment relation is the most important relationship in the world. we are each other’s main trading partner and we are each other’s largest investors, accounting for 42% of the global gdp in 2021 in current prices. there is not another economic relationship as strong as the one that we have with the us, or that the us has with us. there are challenges in this area, but we are working in order to build constructively on them. that is why we have this trade and technology council to look for solutions and to avoid new dispute. in your report, you mentioned the main challenges that you consider in the relationship. and i quote again, ‘the multiple global crises, from the war of russia against ukraine and tensions in the middle east’ – we have been talking a lot about it today – ‘and an increasingly assertive china’. these are the three poles in which we have to concentrate our attention: china, middle east, ukraine. this is, by the way, the challenges that i mentioned last month to our ambassadors conference during our yearly gathering. i have been in contact with secretary of state blinken over the recent weeks, discussing about that, preparing the summit with china and, in particular, encouraging the us to work closely with us on the middle east, because we have both committed to a palestinian state, and the us has been devoting a lot of attention in the past to this issue. not today exactly, but the recent events will make them go back again to this issue, and we cannot just rely on them to solve it. it is the whole international community that has to engage on trying to enable both israelis and palestinians to live in peace. i am also encouraged by your call for consolidating our multiple strands of engagement with the us: the high-level dialogues on china and russia, the high-level consultation on the indo-pacific, the very close cooperation on different foreign policy files, on the western balkans, where our cooperation is very good and decisive to the caucasus or to central asia. in particular, our dialogue on china, which secretary blinken and i launched in brussels in march 2021, has been a dedicated bilateral forum to discuss our responses to, as i said before, a more and more assertive china. both of us are very well aware that our interests are not always overlapping, but this consultation has been proving useful to compare where we go in our engagement with china. your report also talks about cybersecurity, defence policy, counter-terrorism, space, non-proliferation, disarmament. we also have a formal and intense security and defence dialogue, which convened most recently in early december in washington, d.c. what is happening today? the most important thing, maybe, is the review of the us congress of the funding for ukraine. i know that the ukrainians are very much worried by that and it is important that we recall our unwavering commitment to support ukraine, as we said, for as long as it takes, not as long as it took, ‘as it takes’ – not in the past, in the present and in the future. our efforts to help ukraine defend itself against russia’s war of aggression have been part of our joint endeavour with the us from the first day of the full invasion, and we expect this to continue. but it certainly will depend on the electoral processes. in november next year, we will know who’s going to be the next president of the us, and certainly it will be of utmost importance to define our cooperation and the engagement of the us with respect to the support of ukraine. we expect this to continue, and i clearly support your clear message that our engagement in the middle east must not be detrimental to our support to ukraine. there are a lot of differences, but also a lot of coincidences or convergences in these two wars. and it is important that the fact that we have to face both of them at the same time is an important part of our us-eu relations.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, high representative, i would like to thank the rapporteur on his constructive approach and good cooperation during the negotiations. well done, mr picula. since the last recommendation on the future of eu-us relations that we adopted in 2021, our relations have reinvigorated significantly. the united states is not only a partner, but also our closest ally, with whom we need to coordinate our approach in crucial foreign policy areas. that includes our immediate neighbourhood, africa, latin america, caribbean, in the indo-pacific and the arctic. during the negotiations, i successfully included my amendments on the need to continue our strategic partnership in the western balkans in order to secure stability in the region, security of european external borders. transatlantic coordination in the region is crucial in supporting the countries on their path to european integration and assisting them in addressing the issues in the region, that includes the electoral and constitutional reform in bosnia and herzegovina and the eu-facilitated belgrade-pristina dialogue that are key for a european future of the region. as the rapporteur for the report on preventive diplomacy, we have included preventive diplomacy actions around the world, and the visible need that we have on joint actions in preventing future possible conflict. mr high representative, we should not be firefighters. we should be, and play, a part, because the world is now in dire need of preventive diplomacy, and especially with our us partner. i remember when the dayton peace agreement was done it was unjust peace, but it was still a peace. and we should not be afraid of a future congress. i remember republican congressman bob dole was the one who initiated the actions in bosnia and herzegovina. we should work hand in hand with the future and with the present legislatures on the overseas. we should forget about ideological divides. we should work and build the peace around the world. the world needs europe and the world needs the united states strong and visible in the arena, otherwise we are all doomed to fail.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, dear high representative, dear colleagues, like every year we take stock in this report of the state of relations with the us. we note the points of convergence or divergence, the shared interests, the values holding us together. and i want to thank mr. picula, our rapporteur, for the work done in this report. but this is no ordinary moment in our common history, because the year to come will bring a real challenge, a true test of political will. our two democracies, which have been for decades the blueprints for the rules-based global order, are facing the most serious test of resilience. we both face a wave of extremism raging through our societies and electorates, politicians on both sides promoting isolationism, calling into question multilateral organisations. and looking at the coming wave, it is still us, the political forces on either side of the atlantic, that must build as many bridges as possible, that must plant as many anchors as possible. the transatlantic bond must remain strong and be echoed by a sense of shared responsibility towards our own future and the future of the world. this report identifies such anchors, from the commitment to continue supporting ukraine to aligning strategies and priorities in foreign affairs, new technologies or global trade. let us continue nurturing transatlanticism, remain a rational voice, and keep our hand firmly reaching across to all american friends that share this commitment.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in reaffirming our support for ukraine, we call on the european institutions, two years after the russian aggression, to play a central role in finally opening up a peace process and also to carry out an all-encompassing review of all the sanctions packages that have been carried out so far, which too often have failed to meet expectations in their effects. as regards the discussions of these days, and as will be discussed in the council, i hope that the commission will today categorically disprove the rumours of an agreement with hungary to unlock new funds to ukraine, because if it did, it would be a confirmation of how the european commission uses the rule of law as a means of coercion towards the member states and this would be very serious and unacceptable in a democracy. the rule of law is a serious matter and cannot be used to the satisfaction of the institutions. as regards enlargement, it is right that the states discuss how to help ukraine to get closer and more connected to the west, but this must be done with pragmatism, realism and transparency. too often in the last 20 years we have seen the enlargement instrument used as an end rather than a means to strengthen the european union. we must not have children and stepchildren in the enlargement process, because if this is the approach to this issue, we would unfortunately lose the little credibility that has remained in this area for the european institutions. i conclude on the subject of the revision of the multiannual financial framework by reflecting: we are discussing the reform of the stability and growth pact today and it is clear that we would be moving towards a fiscal effort, which we are demanding from the member states and which will be required from the member states' budgets in the coming years. i am not sure what the commission is going to do with the budget. the resources are there, the european union must understand that it cannot do everything and do it badly, as unfortunately happens, but it must do less and do it better. merry christmas to all.
in the name of the left faction. i am not going to say anything. the outdated european debt rules prevent us from investing in the future. in times of social inequality, economic turmoil, climate change and war, the german government is imposing a brutal brake on the future on all eu countries. i would therefore like to say to you, mrs von der leyen, to your surprise, but also to my surprise, i must confess, that we must put political pressure on scholz, lindner and habeck to negotiate together so that they can finally be brought to their senses. the european commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights and the protection of workers' rights. digital corporations and financial speculators, like every small shop owner and every worker, must finally pay their fair share. but under pressure from the chaos call, a new round of brutal austerity policies should be introduced in the eu, and more oil should be poured into the fires of social inequality. that means less health, less education, lower wages, lower pensions. and what's going on at the world climate conference in dubai? the goat was made a gardener when the fossil energy kings could present themselves as the saviors of the climate. the major oil and gas companies have recorded record profits of more than 200 billion euros in 2022. and as long as they make even a single cent from fossil fuels, they'll continue to block climate change. and that is also clearly demonstrated by the final declaration that has now been adopted. and on the reform of the common european asylum system, mrs von der leyen: i regret to say that i do not have to offer you any cooperation, quite the contrary. a report from germany german media reports said that frontex is cooperating with a libyan militia that works closely with wagner mercenaries. wow, you're listening to that a lot more. and after frontex transmitted the coordinates of the refugee boats to this militia, this militia tortures the people, enslaves them and drowns them in the sea. shame on you, lady of the leyen! if that is the border protection you are talking about, i must say that the eu is now waging a war against refugees at its external borders. and our approval of this migration pact will never be given to you, we will never accept this disgusting hostility to humanity. and the future of the eu is not in the arms race, not in fossil fuels, not in human hostility, it's in investing in people and our planet. well, then, happy party!
i would like to ask all the members of this house to maintain appropriate language in this chamber.
the next european council will be decisive in shaping the europe of the future, and never before have positions been so different and distant. we have orbán's blackmail and betrayal against european unity; the return of austerity to a development and solidarity pact; linear budget cuts against investments that benefit businesses for the green transition; new arms shipments for wars against peace in ukraine and the middle east. well, the five star movement knows exactly where to stand. the compulsory deficit and debt cuts would jeopardize the future of future generations, condemning them to a wave of cuts and an irreversible decline. we will not stand by and tell the truth to the citizens if the next european council turns into a stage of lies and propaganda, as unfortunately has happened in the past and as has happened in the past with the president of the italian council, giorgia meloni. europe was not born to stand against it, but for its citizens.
the european council is the main political forum of european leaders. in addition to the agenda items already agreed, there should be discussions at this level on topics of direct and immediate interest to the citizens of our countries. first, the difficulties we face at the level of specialised meetings; for example, the jai should find political solutions at the european council level, and here i am talking about the full integration of romania and bulgaria into the schengen area. romania and bulgaria are members of the schengen agreement who fulfil their contractual obligations but whose citizens are prevented from enjoying their rights. beyond anything else, full integration of romania and bulgaria into schengen is a moral issue, it is a question of fairness and equal treatment of european citizens. regarding the mff another subject which will be under discussion in the euco. we definitely urgently need a decision on the mff review and on the whole package. all the components of the mff revision are absolutely necessary to respond more effectively to evolving needs. we should ensure a union budget that has the ability to respond to the needs, promote long-term investment, create quality jobs, as well as react quickly to unforeseen events. this is a top priority of the european parliament. we also want to ensure the convergence of all regions across the union and to stop any further attempts to take money from the cohesion policy and common agricultural policy. we strongly oppose cuts in existing programs and redeployments. the revision must ensure a stronger and more agile eu budget that meets the higher standards of transparency and democratic accountability. this is the moment where decisions are urgently needed.
madam president, commissioner, minister, the lisbon treaty says about the tasks of the european council that it shall provide the union with the necessary impetus for its development. impetus is speed, motion, but in reality, we see that the european council is actually the biggest brake on the development of the european union. let’s start with enlargement. enlargement is urgent. it is a political, strategic imperative and not a technocratic tick-box exercise that is going to take a generation. we need enlargement as quickly as possible. secondly, europe – now that the us is failing – must give full and unreserved support to ukraine, because the ukrainians are actually on the battlefield fighting the fight for europe today. they need to get everything they need and they need to get it now. the european council is always perfectly capable of finding all sorts of unconstitutional, creative solutions, but then, strangely, it is kept hostage by viktor orbán by saying, ‘oh, he has a veto’, but it is not unavoidable. being held hostage is a political choice in this case, and paying billions of euros in bribe to viktor orbán is a slap in the face of all european citizens who are fighting day in, day out for the european values, the rule of law and democracy. this european commission, in 2019, candidate von der leyen at the time promised us to be the champion of the rule of law. if the commission proceeds to any payments, that promise is broken and in my view president von der leyen has to step down. finally, as to the situation in the middle east, it is very sad to see that not all eu members have backed the un motion calling for a ceasefire. the german government wrote on twitter that it is ‘difficult’. i would say, if you see the suffering of children in gaza, it is not ‘difficult’. and finally, i hope that all the member states will endorse the schengen entry ban for violent settlers that has been proposed by belgium.
- the president, madam. there is no unity among the member states today on the issue of opening accession negotiations with ukraine. such a serious decision should be made only after proper preparation and not under political pressure. the accession of a state the size of ukraine and with an economic, political and security situation would have serious consequences for the economies of the union as a whole, hungary and the member states. on the other hand, enlargement policy should be an objective, consistent and performance-based process. ukraine does not fulfil the minimum conditions set by the commission, including the guarantee of national minority rights, instead of promises. so you're not ready to start the trial. for the western balkans, no progress has been made on accession in this regard for years. the double standard has no place in enlargement policy. the european council, the european commission, send positive signals to ukraine. committed, but different signals than the start of accession negotiations. a decision taken simply on political pressure, without asking the opinion of the citizens, will only further destroy the unity of the union.
madam president, your excellency, romanians are european citizens by excellence and not today, but yesterday. we're not satisfied with half measures. we want full integration into the schengen area by 2024. we're not a second-hand country, we're not poor relatives of europe. if god hadn't put us at the mouth of the danube, at the intersection of imperial interests, next to the russians, in the path of stalin's plans, today we would be among the top three economies in the european union. i was there between world war i and world war ii. we have huge resources: gold, uranium, copper, plenty of oil and especially gas and a fertile, clean land that can feed 100 million citizens (we're only 20) and plenty of salt that supplied much of the ancient roman empire and the entire habsburg empire. when, in the roman empire, emperor domitian paid tribute, taxes to my ancestors, the present territory of austria had already been conquered 100 years ago. the romans did not touch dacia for long, for they feared her, and over 1,500 years later another romanian, iancu de hunedoara, was named by the pope of rome as christ's athlete because he stopped mehmed ii, the conqueror of constantinople, from conquering all of europe. we're being affected economically. do you understand that? over 1.5 percent of my country's gdp is affected by non-schengen, and extremism is spreading. ladies and gentlemen, the european union is keenly interested in ensuring that romanians feel fully respected as european citizens and, above all, that they do not change their attitude towards european construction. romania expects all eu states to put pressure on austria to accept full integration into the schengen area of romania: air, land, rail, river, maritime, not as a favour. it's our right. it could be on the model of greece and iceland. austria violates our right and nothing happened. until now, we have been friendly and model european citizens. we haven't gone over the blood checks on austrian trains, cars and trucks. but the romanians' patience has a limit. she was touched. finally, i wish you all a merry christmas, even those who do not believe. and especially the awareness that the old continent, our europe, has exclusively judeo-christian backgrounds.
madam president, mr president, first of all, as a son of immigrants, i want to thank you for your words to the spaniards who had to leave spain under the franco dictatorship; my parents were some of them. i therefore ask the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are not used to finance the project. i congratulate him on his re-election as president of the spanish government and on his excellent work at the head of the spanish presidency. because, mr. weber, whether you like it or not, mr. feijóo is not here. we have president sanchez here, who will also meet with foreign minister olaf scholz tomorrow to work for a more diverse and united europe and a more social, more tolerant, more feminist and greener union. the spanish presidency has successfully promoted a progressive and ambitious agenda to improve the lives of our citizens, as shown, for example, by the directives on digital platforms or the fight against gender-based violence, but also to respond to future challenges with the artificial intelligence act and the law on the restoration of nature. gentlemen of the popular party, stop selling your soul to the devil, with your pacts with the far right, which only serve to spread hatred and insults, which incite violence and endanger democracy. as you have said, mr weber, return to the european rally and support the spanish presidency... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker).
i give the floor now to five colleagues who have asked for the floor since the beginning of the debate. catch-the-eye procedure
madam president, mr prime minister, dear colleagues, i want to congratulate the spanish presidency. we have negotiated a trilogy on a very important directive, the gas and hydrogen market, and i congratulate you on all the work you, mr. prime minister, have done as spanish president. i've been back two days from your country, i've been to madrid, i've visited a municipality in the madrid area. thank you for accepting over 1 million romanians working there. they all said they were respected in spain and for that i want to thank you on their behalf and i want to tell you, mr prime minister, that nothing is more important than social cohesion and, of course, freedom of movement. therefore, please insist that the presidency be concluded with the entry of romania and bulgaria into the schengen area. romanians there want to come home and be treated like other european citizens. we want to go to spain and be treated the same. i therefore wish to ask you once again, at the end, to insist on romania's entry into the schengen area and to wish you all the best.
madam president, mr president, i am speaking to you as president-in-office of the council: enough hypocrisy. the european union and our governments are complicit in the massacre that israel is committing against palestine. nice words are useless as long as we keep buying and selling arms to israel. to stop this genuine ethnic cleansing, action is needed to force the state of israel to a ceasefire and end the occupation and apartheid of the palestinian people. actions that go beyond suspending the preferential economic agreement and imposing an arms embargo on israel. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i did not want to end without reminding you, mr. sánchez, that you should not forget the rights of pablo gonzález, a journalist imprisoned in poland.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, prime minister, high representative, my dear colleagues, foreign minister, minister for european affairs and, of course, honourable members, i know that time is flying so, if you allow me, i will focus on the topic of this debate and that is a review of the spanish presidency, which is taking place among extremely difficult circumstances. and i would like to thank you, prime minister, and your team for remarkable cooperation and european spirit, which help us to push many difficult files over the finishing line. we’ve been working together on making sure that europe will get re-industrialised so that we will deliver more on open strategic economy. and i very much appreciate your support on the critical raw materials act and on building european leadership on green technologies and artificial intelligence. we have been working very closely with your team to make sure that we would advance in the digital transition and environmental adaptation, and i would like to thank, in particular, teresa ribera, who was an excellent partner for making sure that in cop we recorded success. she was working very closely with me, she was working very closely with my colleague commissioner hoekstra, and they have been a remarkable force which delivered the success we have seen this morning. i would like to thank you for advancing social and economic justice, be it in the field of new electricity market design, which i believe will bring us low energy prices across europe, and the significant progress we achieved in the directive to fight violence against women. and of course, we’ve been projecting together a new sense of partnership towards celac countries during the eu-celac summit. in my last two remarks, if you allow, i would focus first on our cooperation in the field of foresight. as the commissioner responsible for strategic foresight, i want to underscore that it was a pleasure and a great professional experience to work with your team to prepare the discussion documents for the granada summit. i think that in this way we have demonstrated how the foresight community can contribute to the successful debate on the strategic agenda of the european leaders. so from my remarks, honourable members of parliament, it’s clear that the european commission enjoys excellent cooperation with the government of spain, including on our daily work in the course of the spanish presidency. and i have to say, the same cooperation exists also as regards the information that the commission asked about the draft law which was so intensely discussed today. a constructive meeting already took place between commissioner reynders and minister bolaños, and while the analysis of the draft is ongoing, this dialogue helps clarify things and continues.
president-in-office of the council. i am convinced that the spanish presidency has been successful and very fruitful for europe because we have made progress in an extraordinarily complex international situation. in my first speech i said this: we must be united in diversity and also in the face of the adversity we are suffering. in any case, i have heard in this debate erroneous and malicious statements about the quality of democracy and the rule of law in my country. the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of the environment. look, ladies and gentlemen, we can disagree on ideas, we can have different ideologies, but facts are facts. if we want to have serious, productive debates, we have to be empirical and argue with the data at hand. and the data is categorical, ladies and gentlemen. spain is one of the most full democracies in the world. it is. it occupies a leading position in the four major democratic quality rankings that exist, having improved its score in all of them since i had the honour of being president of the government of spain. obviously, spain is a young democracy compared to others, imperfect, as we are all, but superior in quality, according to all empirical studies, to some of the oldest in the world. spain also has a full rule of law, one of the 25 most robust in the world, according to the prestigious rule of law index of the world justice project. and if we don't take a better position, lords of the people's party, it's because there's a clear case of lawfare seeing how the people's party is hijacking for five years in a row the renewal of the general council of the judiciary. we must therefore put an end to this assault on justice, which obviously weakens our democracy. and that is why i want to take this opportunity to reiterate to the people's party my willingness to reach state agreements, to renew the general council of the judiciary. we are also looking for a reform of article 49 of our constitution and a new model of regional financing, which is very important for a state composed like spain. i think the election period is over. the polls have already spoken. spain has a legitimate, stable government, and now it's time to work for the general interest and agree. i believe we can and must understand each other in the same way that our political families understand each other and vote together often in this house, as i have done in the european council. and for that i would ask the people's party to follow the example of other european conservative parties and break its idiotic with the far right. because that's what we're talking about. look, ladies and gentlemen, in the last decade alone, the percentage of far-right voters in europe has doubled. today the far right is the first conservative option in one in three member states and 30% of european citizens already live under its government, whether at national or regional level. this is the real threat, the real threat to our democracy and to the european project. and the risk to democracy does not stem from the existence of a progressive coalition government in spain, perfectly aligned with european values and principles and legitimately elected by the spanish people. nor does it derive from the negotiation and normalization policy we have been deploying since 2018 in catalonia. as you will remember, a decade ago there were episodes of discord, of discord, that produced much pain, trauma and that transcended our borders with images that still grieve us. no one can be proud of that era. remember what europe said then, ladies and gentlemen. mr reynders, commissioner, stated publicly and i quote him: 'i hope that the dialogue between madrid and barcelona can be resumed. and mr rangel, who just intervened here today, said that it seemed a serious mistake and i quote textuallyto move forward with judicial persecution and imprisonment of the political leaders in catalonia. that is what we were asked to do then, ladies and gentlemen, and that is exactly what my government has done. to resume negotiation and policy to try to solve a problem we inherited from the absolute failure of the previous people's party administration. the results are there for anyone who wants to see them. the pardons have worked. negotiation and institutional standardisation are working. and i am also convinced that amnesty will support this noble goal. because today the situation in catalonia is, ladies and gentlemen, infinitely better than it was in 2017. and we're going to keep improving it. i want to tell mr puigdemont that it is in our hands to achieve this, that we must do it through politics, negotiation and the constitution. and i believe that the amnesty law is an important step in the right direction. a law that supports a large majority of our 178 seats in parliament, we are talking about 12 million people represented in those seats, which is constitutional and which only has one aim: to overcome conflict and help to sow harmony among our countrymen. i can also guarantee that we will continue to promote the use of the co-official languages recognized in our constitution, which express the feelings and emotions of thirteen million inhabitants of our country. in short, ladies and gentlemen, it is not the bet on the reunion and overcoming political contentions through politics that threatens democracy. no, not at all. the real threat in spain and europe is the advance of the far right. and also, if i may, the irresponsibility of the traditional right which is opening the doors to coalition governments and is making many of the other ideas their own. that is the threat to the european project. that reactionary tandem weakens the european project, mr weber. it is the one that is eroding democracies, the one that is outlawing political parties, the one that attacks the separation of powers, the one that silences critical media while undermining the european project, the one that is slowing down the ecological transition and putting women's and lgbtq rights at stake, as is happening in spain. mr weber, i ask you directly: are you aware of all this? do you really feel comfortable being complicit in this threat? i am telling you the truth: i celebrate that after twenty years in this house i have begun to take an interest in what is happening in spain. but if i really want to help, my recommendation, mr weber, is that you know our country first and not just repeat the unfounded proclamations that your colleagues from the spanish people's party make. tell me, mr weber, do you know who the allies of the people's party in spain are? do you know what vox stands for and what vox really thinks? do you know how vox defines the european union? i quote it in the text, defining it as a "soviet-like federal megastate". do you know what they call the community institutions? i quote them in writing: degenerate oligarchs who want to turn entire nations into multicultural garbage. did you know that its leader, the leader of vox, santiago abascal, has said that spain is a country chained around the neck by the despotic machinery of brussels and bitten by the feet by autonomy? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. because they're against a federal state, by the way, very similar to the federal state you have in germany. and what do you think of vox's proposal to legalize certain political parties, to prevent access to media appearances for critical media? do you think it's democratic? do you think it's good for the rule of law in spain? and now that we are, i ask you: what do you know about the policies that vox is deploying with the people's party in the five autonomous governments and the 130 municipalities that govern? did you know they're lowering taxes on big fortunes while they're cutting public fees? do you know that they're eliminating policies and cutting public funds to fight gender-based violence? do you know that they're censoring concerts, movies and plays, while recovering the names on the streets of our cities of famous people linked to the franco dictatorship? would that also be your plan for germany, mr weber, to return the names of the leaders of the third reich to the streets and squares of berlin? spain, ladies and gentlemen, is a full democracy. we are a european country, as is your government. spain has a robust rule of law, an absolutely legitimate and capable government. and i invite you not to be confused with adversary. that mistake has already been made by the european right in the past and europe has paid dearly for it.
that concludes the debate. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the socialists can be very proud of the spanish presidency's report, because it has been able to meet its objectives by adopting more than 45 legislative documents. this is a higher than usual figure, which highlights our commitment to the major transformations that our union needs and in particular to the reindustrialisation of europe and the strengthening of its open strategic autonomy, as well as to the progress of the ecological transition and social and economic justice. pedro sánchez has managed once again to lead the construction of a more just, more social, more tolerant, more feminist and more green union, despite the resistance of the right and the far right, who only understand the homeland from hatred, lies and disloyalty. in the face of the popular party and vox, which have spent the whole semester trying to torpedo the implementation of spain's 160 billion recovery plan, the iberian exception and pension reform, the socialists have successfully pushed forward an ambitious progressive agenda to improve the lives of our citizens.
in writing. the socialists can be very proud of the spanish presidency's report, because it has been able to meet its objectives by adopting more than 45 legislative documents. this is a higher than usual figure, which highlights our commitment to the major transformations that our union needs and in particular to the reindustrialisation of europe and the strengthening of its open strategic autonomy, as well as to the progress of the ecological transition and social and economic justice. pedro sánchez has managed once again to lead the construction of a more just, more social, more tolerant, more feminist and more green union, despite the resistance of the right and the far right, who only understand the homeland from hatred, lies and disloyalty. in the face of the popular party and vox, which have spent the whole semester trying to torpedo the implementation of spain's 160 billion recovery plan, the iberian exception and pension reform, the socialists have successfully pushed forward an ambitious progressive agenda to improve the lives of our citizens.
in writing. the socialists can be very proud of the spanish presidency's report, because it has been able to meet its objectives by adopting more than 45 legislative documents. this is a higher than usual figure, which highlights our commitment to the major transformations that our union needs and in particular to the reindustrialisation of europe and the strengthening of its open strategic autonomy, as well as to the progress of the ecological transition and social and economic justice. pedro sánchez has managed once again to lead the construction of a more just, more social, more tolerant, more feminist and more green union, despite the resistance of the right and the far right, who only understand the homeland from hatred, lies and disloyalty. in the face of the popular party and vox, which have spent the whole semester trying to torpedo the implementation of spain's 160 billion recovery plan, the iberian exception and pension reform, the socialists have successfully pushed forward an ambitious progressive agenda to improve the lives of our citizens.
- madam president, please. the prime minister is leaving, but he's been attacking me for almost five minutes now. i would therefore like to make one thing clear: in my country, germany, and you know that as a german colleague of social democracy, the democrats in the centre would find a consensus and together form a government, a great coalition to keep the right and the left out of the government. he's doing the opposite. just to make it clear.
rapporteur. – madam president, colleagues, it’s been at least 10 years since we have not looked at the wider relationship between the eu and japan, even though japan obviously is one of our best and most important likeminded partners globally. the economic relations have thrived, but as regards other dimensions, including security, research and development, global high-quality infrastructure development, the dual digital and green transformation, upholding the multinational international order, working with developing nations or enhancing people to people contacts, there is much we can do beyond what we have. this report describes where we are and where we want to go. next year, we will have an anniversary in that relationship, and i hope that this report can contribute to taking it to new heights. thank you to all the shadows and all the staff.
the rapporteur. madam president, more than seven million children are deprived of their liberty worldwide. many of them are held in adult centres, where they are subjected to all kinds of risks and abuse. more and more children are being stopped in the world, younger and longer. to deprive a child of freedom is to deprive him of his childhood, it is to subject him to structural violence. this clearly violates the international convention on the rights of the child. in adopting this report, parliament commits itself to appealing to the international community to help us avoid this situation. there must be alternative measures to the deprivation of children's liberty. i would like to thank all the speakers from all the political groups for their commitment to carrying out this report. i ask for your vote. today, if we approve this report, we are sending a message to millions of children: their lives, their childhood and their freedom matter to us.
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner, colleagues, they say that cobalt is the new oil. and depending on where you lie in the political spectrum, you may react differently to this statement. for some people, this is good news. it means the green transition is well underway. for others, it is an unwelcome sign of change. i think of what this means for africa and it makes me uneasy. the vast majority of the world’s critical raw materials are concentrated in africa. as is widely known, the democratic republic of congo produces 70% of the world’s cobalt. of course, this abundance is a huge opportunity for these developing countries, a chance to take a huge leap forward. but have we europeans learned the lessons of history from europe’s colonial past and the moral implications of fostering resource dependency? i am afraid we have forgotten all about the resource curse, the paradox of an abundance of natural resources delivering little by way of prosperity for local and indigenous people. this morning’s agreement at cop28 to transition away from fossil fuels underlines the urgency to provide safeguards for the next phase of extractive industry. what is to stop cobalt from becoming the new oil? what is to stop the eu from facilitating this as we try to get ahead in the critical raw materials race? this time we must do things differently. we must carry out real and effective due diligence. i want to thank the shadows for their work in this opinion, and i’m sure they won’t mind me paying particular tribute to the late michèle rivasi, who brought her usual passion and straight talking to this file. my sincere sympathies to her family and friends.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear colleagues, only in africa this report on education affects more than half a billion children. the text we are about to vote is based on wide consultation with different kinds of african stakeholders, as well as on a wide consensus of political groups. this constitutes a strong message to the commission and member states. young people in our partner countries deserve the opportunity to have quality education, decent work and life in their homeland. to meet agenda 2030, an additional 70 million teachers will need to be recruited. for that, there is a need for adequate financing and stronger engagement with the local partners. the commission has rightly recognised the urgency of this issue of education in developing countries. the increase in the budgetary commitment of the last years is a good step, but widely not enough. we also need enhanced efficiency and strategic implementation. we need to move beyond the practice of aiding, and build cooperation, partnership and trust. dear colleagues, let me express my gratitude to the shadow rapporteurs for the good and really efficient cooperation, and i also thank commissioner urpilainen, who is a committed supporter of the eu’s engagement for education. i hope that the commission will continue and strengthen this cooperation and increase financing for education in developing countries. finally, dear colleagues, this report is a result of intense negotiations. we managed to deliver a text which reflects the reality of our development partner countries. the message can be understood by our partners as well as within the union. now i invite you to support the report with your vote.
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner, colleagues, this report is key for the interinstitutional framework of the european union, respect for the principle of mutual sincere cooperation and the role of the european parliament. in the document – approved with a large majority in the committee on constitutional affairs, with the wide support of the shadow rapporteurs, which i very much appreciated – we clearly say that decisions at eu level should not be delayed or blocked by an unjustified veto, as they were, for instance, in the last 13 years regarding the schengen enlargement with romania and bulgaria. we also state that the council needs to respect the recommendations and the rules of the commission and of parliament, and to engage in an open and constructive dialogue. moreover, we need legal clarity on the use of special legislative procedures to prevent institutional blockages. finally, and this is of crucial importance, parliament calls upon member states to give justification to their vetoes and votes, which should have legal explanations correlated to treaty provisions and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and that should be in full accordance with eu values. this is fundamental for full respect of the mutual sincere cooperation principle and the rights of all eu citizens. that is why our report calls upon the european parliament to seize the court of justice of the european union when a vote or a decision does not respect these key principles of the european union. i am also glad that this report strongly supports the accession of romania and bulgaria into the schengen area, calling for an immediate decision in favour of both countries. and we all agreed that both countries respect all the criteria and a decision should be made soon. beyond the important legal clarification it provides, the report represents a clear political message that we are all defending the key role of our institution of the european parliament and of the treaties. therefore, i call upon you to keep the strong consensus we reached in the committee and vote in favour of this report.
the minutes and the texts adopted of yesterday’s sitting are available. are there any comments? as that is not the case, the minutes are approved.
the next item is the topical debate under rule 162 on the eu strategy to assist young people facing the housing and cost-of-living crisis. i would inform members that for this debate there is no catch-the-eye procedure and no blue cards will be accepted.
president-in-office of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this opportunity to exchange views on the european union's strategy for young people following your report. as you know, last may the council adopted conclusions on the social dimension of a sustainable europe for youth and noted that young people are one of the forces that give strength to our societies and are also drivers of change. last year was the european year of youth, which included a wide range of initiatives that provided us with a wealth of information on the challenges facing the younger generations. it is becoming increasingly difficult to get a job or to continue studying. youth unemployment remains systematically twice as high as overall unemployment and, at the same time, the pandemic has reminded us of the disproportionate consequences that labour market crises have for youth. while in most member states the rules governing access to social protection do not take age into account, certain deficiencies and obstacles are more significant for young people. a recent report shows that the main shortcomings in access to benefits are age and occupational status. as your honour has recalled, in 2013 the union introduced the youth guarantee. the member states then committed to creating programmes to ensure that young people up to 25 years of age were offered a quality job, education or continuing training within four months of leaving school or being unemployed. the initiative has been a huge success. more than 24 million young people have signed up and more than 14 million have accepted an offer. i would like to say that it has been one of the great successes of the social pillar of the european union and one of the excellent initiatives of the commission in this regard. building on these good results, member states made a new commitment in 2020 to assist young people across the union through the enhanced youth guarantee, which extended the target group to people up to 30 years of age and envisaged better inclusion of vulnerable groups such as young people with disabilities. the european social fund plus is the main financing instrument for the reinforcement of the youth guarantee. and you can also use, as you know, the funds from the recovery and resilience mechanism and react-eu. the enhanced youth guarantee is also a fundamental link with the issue of digital capacities. let me now address the question of affordable housing which has been most particularly addressed by your honour. it is a fundamental challenge for european citizens in general but it affects young people in particular. access to housing is a necessity and probably the most important step to full participation in society and an independent life. the council conclusions on the social dimension of a sustainable europe for youth, adopted in may of this year, stated that living and housing conditions are essential prerequisites for young people to develop their own lives and live sustainably. this year's country-specific recommendations included the challenge of providing affordable housing and member states committed to take strategic measures in this regard. i also recall that a month ago, in november, the housing ministers met in gijón, spain, to discuss housing and urban development, and in the statement they adopted they stressed the need to strengthen support for the promotion and implementation of policies that facilitate access to affordable housing for all. i can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that the needs of the youth of our societies are and will remain a priority of the council and we are prepared to look for ways to provide support where necessary and by taking rapid action, as has been demonstrated over the last two years.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, only two months ago, this house held a debate on decent housing for all. all over europe, people face challenges linked to the housing and cost-of-living crisis. this is a major concern of europeans and particularly of young europeans. looking at the market developments in the past years, house purchase prices in the eu increased by 37% between 2010 and 2021, and rents went up by 17%. the housing cost overburden rate has gone beyond 11% on average, mainly in cities. recently, inflation and the increase in interest rates have had a sizeable impact on rents and mortgages. yes, the share of the population at risk of poverty or social exclusion, though remaining broadly constant over the past years, is, nevertheless, at a very high level, with more than 90 million europeans at risk of poverty. given the repeated shocks and crises, effective policies and exceptional social transfers have permitted to avoid a major worsening. however, the risks of housing exclusion and poverty have increased for vulnerable and low-income households, especially when coupled with energy poverty risks. and the difficulties to afford decent housing are also an issue for medium-income households in numerous locations. some groups are more at risk than others, and this concerns young people in particular. young people are more likely to live in overcrowded households, to spend 40% or more of their income on housing. for young people, having a house is often the first step towards independence. however, the lack of affordable housing remains a crucial barrier in this respect. in may this year, eurofound reported that three quarters of member states have a housing-first approach built into their national systems, but have not yet reached sufficient scale. the same report recalls that affordable housing policies must not increase inequalities. ownership support often benefits people with higher income more than those with lower incomes, who, by the way, have no own assets. we are well aware that young people with low incomes may be particularly vulnerable in that respect. access to affordable and decent housing is also an essential condition for young people to be independent and found a family. we should not forget, in that context also, about the most extreme form of housing deprivation: homelessness. the federation of national organisations working with the homeless estimate that 895 000 people, about one in every 600 people in europe, are living rough in shelters or temporary accommodation. these numbers are staggering, and studies indicate that this phenomenon is still increasing in the majority of member states. as the european commission, we have a role to play. the commission has been promoting better housing policies in member states, including in the context of the european semester. unfortunately, there are no quick fixes to housing shortages or high rent and house prices. typically, a mix of policies is necessary, and they take time to have a sustained impact on the ground. increasing the supply of affordable housing and, in particular, public housing and social housing, is key. that is why we monitor housing policies in the european semester and look at both the supply and accessibility dimensions, with a focus not only on the most vulnerable, but also the middle-income households. as a result, several member states have already received country-specific recommendations. beyond the semester, the eu has in place several policy and funding instruments: the new european bauhaus, the renovation wave and the affordable housing initiative, which has the objective to promote inclusive, innovative and affordable housing. the european platform on combating homelessness brings together national authorities, civil society and european institutions to combat homelessness in the eu with, precisely, a housing-first approach. many young people, notably belonging to minorities, or migrants, are affected by homelessness, facing a terrible, vicious circle: no job, no housing and no housing, no job. since its launch, we have seen an increasing number of member states adopting integrated national homelessness strategies. to help young people access affordable and decent housing we need to boost investments in affordable housing, including social and student housing. funding is also available at eu level, and you have insisted on the situation of many students that have particularly suffered first from covid-19 and now from inflation. they need better support and this includes paid traineeships. member states have programmed close to eur 15.1 billion in their national recovery and resilience plans in connected investments and reforms, including following country-specific recommendations. the investeu programme, with its eur 2.8 billion guarantee dedicated to social investments and skills, also has the potential to leverage substantial investments on affordable social and student housing and other funds, such as the european regional development fund and the european social fund plus, contribute to building an integrated approach to housing for vulnerable groups. housing policies also need to be understood in a broader context, in particular when it comes to helping young people access quality jobs that offer good working conditions and decent salary prospects. precarious jobs are among the main causes for excluding young people from the housing market, as they do not have the stable income asked for by landlords. our green deal industrial plan and the investments and reforms under the recovery and resilience facility are aimed at creating good job opportunities. the reinforced youth guarantee, which has already been mentioned, supports young people in gaining work experience and developing the right skills. many young people are also willing to start their own business. the commission launched, together with the oecd, the youth entrepreneurship policy academy, to support them. these are just a few examples of the ambitious actions that we are taking to support member states. looking ahead, we have to focus on the implementation of the european pillar of social rights that in principle 19 foresees ‘access to social housing or housing assistance of good quality [that] shall be provided for those in need’. now is the moment to do so.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, money from my mother or father from them 76 percent of romanian students depend on them to live in the city where they study. 76 percent of students in romania will pay their rent with their parents' money. only 32% can afford their own wages and 8% from grants. i can't help but wonder: if a young man is from a low-income village in romania, who wants to go to college and build a better future, what are the chances of his education if his parents can't pay his rent? there is a category of youth all over europe that i would call the invisible youth. they're young people who don't stand a chance and the postal code dictates their destiny. if you were born in the big cities, you have a chance at a good future. if you were born in the country, chances are high. if you were born with a disability or if you were born into a roma family, your chances of being able to progress in today's society, of finding a home and of actually having access to education and programs that can help you find a good job are very low. the invisible children and young people are actually the ones we are talking about today and i am glad that there are young people who are attending this debate to know that in the european parliament we are working for this. young people need access and opportunity, and in the european parliament we have worked for this through the children's guarantee, the youth guarantee. the solutions are there. use the european money! consult the youth for housing programs! it's simpler than we think. we just have to act in that direction.
mr president, for 85 percent of french people aged 18 to 25, housing has become a real combatant's journey. it is a social and economic disaster. this has not escaped anyone, but the european union is fully responsible for these daily tragedies, because your pseudo-ecological fanatics have excluded millions of homes from the private rented market, which are no longer accessible, because your zero-rate policy has led to a real estate overheating. you mentioned earlier an increase of 11 to 13%, and in paris, in 20 years, rent has been increased by 13 times. your political decisions have created inflation unprecedented in the euro area for 20 years. you have thus forced the european central bank to raise its disaster credit rates to contain it, which has increased the cost of the mortgage. in the end, the middle classes no longer have access to the property: in the first half of 2023, one in two loans was denied. so naturally, these candidates, these first-time applicants, have fallen short of a better rental market, more specifically for young people: young workers, young students, young households. housing supply was already insufficient, it became unable to afford. the market was already tight at the level of supply, you have narrowed it even further; what was difficult has become impossible. that's the mess your politics has plunged our youth into. today i feel that you are paying yourself in words, commissioner, and your vows are vows of piety. to take just one example: one billion investments. in france alone, 70 billion a year would be needed for energy renovation of our buildings. all the rusty stuff stuck on all the financial and real estate bubbles you created has thrown a whole generation into precariousness. they don't thank you.
mr president, housing has long been overlooked in europe and is now a problem for which urban dwellers, and especially young people, are paying. the most obvious example is prague, where, due to the oversight of the problem, the hate campaign and the cowardice of some representatives who were more interested in their personal pr than their citizens, it is now the most expensive housing in the union. in the capital of the czech republic, a 75-square-foot apartment is now available for more than 25 annual salaries. i therefore call on the commission not to shove its head in the sand again and to do what it can, and not only help young people. in the past, the european parliament has called for greater funding for social housing, the sharing of data on the situation in individual cities, the fight against speculation and the ban on forced evictions. however, the commission has so far only made progress in regulating short-term rents. that is why i ask you now to finally start dealing with the situation not only in the commission but also in the czech republic and in all cities. housing is a basic human right, not a commodity or privilege.
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are not dealing with the new generations. hunger wages, star rent costs... yet we wanted to be the new generation commission. a new european housing policy is needed: the first housing of our young people must become an economic service of general interest. we must involve the business world in recovering abandoned property and making it available to their workers. the banks must do their part and we must give adequate guarantees. let us all do it now, or our young people will no longer believe in this europe and we cannot lose sight of this. our future is our youth!
a uachtaráin, across europe, young people struggled to secure a roof over their heads and to meet the rising costs of living. ireland, once known for one of the highest eu homeownership rates, has seen a decline despite near full employment and recent economic growth. notably, this decline is prominent among younger and lower-income demographics, with less than a third of 30-year-olds owning homes today. this, of course, is a problem yet recent actions have been hampered by the pandemic and having to virtually shut down the construction sector, as well as mortgage interest rates and building costs shooting up. despite lofty promises from politicians seeking support, unfortunately there is no quick fix. the solution in some ways is straightforward: increasing the supply of affordable housing. however, achieving this requires various policy measures at different governance levels. streamlining and simplifying planning systems at a national level is essential, but authorities must have adequate resources for this to occur. housing is not an eu competence. however, the eu can and should strengthen its financial contribution by building upon the effective work of the european investment bank. ireland itself needs to be better at utilising existing eu funds. for example, the construction of social and affordable housing could be covered under investeu. although it is welcome that the commission approved a eur 450 million irish housing scheme under state aid rules, there also needs to be broadening of exemptions for social housing under the rulebook more generally.
mr. chairman, i think we can all agree that crises affect young people in a specific way. some important life steps we've all taken in our lives have been taken away from them. we say home is a feeling, not a place. however, the young will tell you and the place is. even before the crisis, as many as 30 percent of 15- to 29-year-olds were in overcrowded housing, and most cannot dream of owning their own property. rents and rentals exploded, and the price of a square of housing was even higher. in most member states, this increase was not even remotely observed. in my country croatia, more than 55% of people have trouble paying their rent, which is almost 20% higher than the eu average. on the other hand, young people in croatia stay in a home for much longer than the european union average, up to age 33, almost the longest in the european union, behind portugal. this is certainly contributed by a 20% increase in rents and a 30% increase in real estate. however, we are not just talking about an economic problem. it's also about mental health issues. even 60% of citizens in the european union say that living conditions are the main cause. the consequences of these problems are unmistakable. that's why we socialists are looking for a european answer to this problem. we need new regulations on the housing market. we need to stop the price inflation. we need to end inequalities in society.
mr president, commissioner, mr secretary of state, the problem facing young europeans goes far beyond housing access and low purchasing power. this is a real intergenerational crisis. youth unemployment data are worrying and available jobs are often precarious, with low and temporary wages. this makes it difficult to emancipated and to access housing. for example, in spain 83% of young people aged 18 to 30 still live with their parents. in view of this situation, we hear in this house the voices of economic populism focused on division. but what our young people really need are courageous reforms. the same courage that left and right governments have lacked in reforming the education system, the labour market and the pension system. european young people deserve a real opportunity to develop their life project. let's be brave.
mr. president, i keep looking at those young people up there who came to support europe, but it's hard to support europe when you don't have money in your pocket, when it's humiliating that you don't have a home, that your only home is the couch in your parents' house. a young man in romania does not have the same conditions as in the west. credit conditions are different, interest rates are very high, wages are very low. they were promised that if they went to school, if they stayed in school, if they worked, they would have all these things and not have them until after 30 years and maybe even later. we must therefore set good examples at european level. i think of the city of vienna, which makes sure that those rents for young people are low, that the rich people are not separated from the poor people on the outskirts of cities, and i would even propose a wealth tax to fund the construction of social housing so that young people can have more social housing funds. i'm actually telling the home minister, mr. vesta, to invest all the money from the pnrr, as much as possible from the pnrr, to have social housing. it's important for young people, because without them we don't build europe, without them we lose europe.
the question posed by raising the blue card. mr. colleague, i want to ask you when you say that the office of special counsel is so bad and president fico apparently planned to cancel it. i want to know if he had it on the posters? did prime minister fico have a campaign plan to reduce the penalties for corruption? i didn't see it. i'm driving through slovakia, i have friends, family. i never heard of him planning this. i want to ask you, did you see that? can you show me where this proposal was on the ballot?
(the beginning of the intervention was not made on the microphone) ... to criticize the sanctions against russia or the european integration of ukraine and moldova, prime minister fico should fix the serious problems that slovakia has because of his regime. under mr fico, slovakia is mentioned as a challenge to the union's foreign policy and a threat to the rule of law. the revision of the criminal code, proposed last week, has taken thousands of slovak citizens to the streets. mr. fico has, in fact, swept away from his path the key anti-corruption institutions and penalties for corruption offenses. this exposes slovakia to the activation of the conditional mechanism. the citizens of slovakia do not deserve this. mr. fico is acting as the enemy of democracy, not its friend. i stand with the slovak citizens and ask them to defend their justice, their independent institutions and the mechanisms that protect the rule of law to the end, and if mr. fico is unhappy with the freedom of the people in his own country, move to the residence of his good friend, viktor orbán, in hungary, or with putin. (the spokesperson agreed to answer a question referred to her in accordance with the procedure of the blue card issuer)
blue-card question. – i have only one question. what do you think are the most important things that we are now facing in slovakia? why has this parliament this debate? why are we debating about the situation in slovakia? do you think that everyone from us is corrupt and want really to push slovaks out from the european union or do something against slovakia?
blue-card answer. – i think that the main risk is that all of the problems with the rule of law that mr fico and his regime are causing are turning into systemic problems, and this means the risk of activating the conditionality mechanism, this means and draws the risk of sanctions against slovakia and that is a pity for the citizens of slovakia, and it is a pity for democracy and for their fight for freedom. it is a shame and a responsibility at the same time that mr fico should bear. it is not the people’s fault, and he should fix things before it is too late, because slovakia is a member of the european union, and people should stand proud. the european union defends their values; it is mr fico who destroys them.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after the pilot phase, the short-term instruments and the most sophisticated but not adequately financed instruments, we have now reached the real testbed for our ambitions to create a defence europe. we set high ambition levels but we are prepared to support them adequately at all stages of this journey. it will be essential to report on the various initiatives previously launched under the edip, thus providing the financial resources necessary for the various programmes to be truly effective, starting with the european defence fund. if we really want to strengthen our industrial capacity, we must ensure that financing is predictable and continuous, not linked to short-term and short-term 'spot' initiatives. it will also be essential to provide for common procurement mechanisms for products developed under the european defence fund, thus separating us from the logic of marginal incentives and supporting the entire production cycle of defence equipment. the content we give and the funds we allocate to edip will tell us who and what we want to become; the future is in our hands, but we must act wisely. this is not the time for ambiguity and hesitation: we must say yes to a strong and equitable europe of defence and prepare ourselves to support it adequately so that our ambition is in perfect proportion to our strengths.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. for almost two years, the war criminal in the kremlin has been waging a full-scale war in the middle of europe. if we don't give full support to ukraine, it will march through and then it won't stop. we must react, and we should have done so from the outset, both at national level where the defence budget is, and with our european programmes that complement it. we did a part with asap and edirpa, yes, but we still don't see the results of that. that's why it's so important that there are follow-up programs. but now, in view of the dramatic situation in the european council under the multiannual financial framework, it would be necessary to decide that edip would actually be financed and that we would be making at least 5 billion extra this weekend. but unfortunately, that's not going to happen. and why? because the seriousness of the situation is not recognized from my point of view. i would like to say that the commissioner is not a member of the commission. i believe that the original plan was to put an edis before edip, which was to present the strategy first and then to orient the programme after the strategy. that could have been the case. i am not accusing the commission of not having the money. the blame is more likely to be directed at member states that are unable to make the funds available in an enlarged financial framework in such a way that a credible programme can actually be produced. the war criminal runs three shifts, seven days a week full war economy, and we're trying to get the production up and running here with the smallest programs. we must recognize the seriousness of the situation. we must not only implement this programme here, we must increase the capacity of all national defence budgets so that we can counter the aggressor.
madam president, dear commissioner, what do we need to make edip relevant? we need money, political will and credible implementation. money alone won’t do. without the political will and a shared platform for cooperation, it will be a waste – it will further deepen the gaps and lack of interoperability. so money needs to be invested in a way that brings forward our political objectives, which in turn must come from a shared and fully assumed sense of necessity and urgency about our defence in europe. yes, defence is a national competence. yes, it is outside the treaty. yes, we have nato. yes, we have an uneven spread of industrial capabilities across the union. but all that will never change if we are not prepared to make bold decisions now. it is time to recognise that we have to invest to become the owners of our own defence. and for that we need to work towards a fully-fledged defence union, and that path must be prepared by an instrument such as edip and a designated commissioner for defence in the future.
mrs president, ladies and gentlemen, we have lived in peace in europe for many years, for decades, and fortunately we are accustomed to the concept of peace. then, on the brink of the fall of the berlin wall, we had to recognize a new concept that is risk, and then, because of terrorism, we had to come to the concept of threat. then what happened in february 2022 happened, so history went back 70 years and concepts like "war" and "enemy" came back to life. the european union's reaction has been exceptional, more has been done in a few weeks than in more than 20 years. but as you rightly said, commissioner, that was a reaction; the commission has already decided to adopt a number of measures to combat the spread of the virus. we therefore expect the edip to be a real message of hope, as well as a clear message from the point of view of financial resources, in order to aspire to a future europe where the subject of defence is no longer a subject of the states but of the european union, and neither from the financial point of view a subject of the states but of the european union. today we spend a lot, about 250 billion euros a year on defence, but we have 17 different types of cartridge. in the united states, they spend three times as much on a single tank type. the hope is that the europe we have seen in the defense of ukraine will be the europe of the future, united and free from envy between the states.
madam president, mr navarro ríos, mr commissioner breton, ladies and gentlemen, the events of recent years around the world and in our immediate neighbourhood have made it clear that the european union needs a very serious investment programme in the defence industry, but also a common strategy and an army that can ensure our security, the union. this programme must take into account the need for all equipment, ammunition to be produced here in the european union, but also for industry to be able to adapt to the needs of different times. this program must pay attention not only to classical weapons but also to the needs of new technologies, even new types of warfare. we're not just talking about a classic war, as we know from history books, one that uses the latest technologies, but also the information war that third countries have already started. we can't always rely on others to produce the ammunition we need, to provide the defense we need, to counter the information attacks we face. we need to start relying on ourselves.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, mr commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, i am again referring to frontex, the european border and coast guard agency, in a debate with a resolution in parliament's plenary session: a resolution resulting from the frontex control working party we have set up in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which has been responsible for strengthening the mandate of frontex to become the giant agency of the european constellation, with a budget that has grown from 114 million to 800 million a year and 10 000 uniform officers with the right to bear arms. and we will not stop, in this exercise of control over frontex, until we ensure that it fulfils its mandate to respect fundamental rights by deploying its 40 officers under a head of the fundamental rights agency, also in cooperation with third countries and also in search and rescue operations. and we will not stop until there is no suspicion of mismanagement of european funds, such as the one that led to the olaf investigations and the resignation of its former director. and we will not stop until we have no credibility in the reports that continue to come to us from frontex's involvement in pushbacks, illegal returns, let alone cooperation with militias that return people apprehended at sea to unsafe countries. this is the commitment of this european parliament to the european border and coast guard agency.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, commissioner, dear minister, dear colleagues, our union is as strong as its institutions and these institutions, bodies and agencies are only as strong as their credibility and the manner in which they fulfil the mandate received from all citizens. credibility is linked with transparency, and at times it requires the courage to admit when mistakes are made, to draw the right lessons from those mistakes, and to communicate both the good and the bad, the achievements, but also the shortcomings. this is how we gain the trust of our citizens, by showing them that we are constantly trying to improve and deliver to the best of our ability on their needs. with frontex, we had arrived at such an inflection point two years ago when the credibility of its work, otherwise immensely important for our union and done with dedication and professionalism on multiple occasions, was put to the test by bad management and the naive belief that ugly things can be kept under the carpet. well, they cannot. and it took ombudsman and olaf investigations to flesh them out. on our part, as parliament, we organised ourselves in the scrutiny group and together across political groups we delivered a strong message as to what the expectations for change were. and now, with this resolution, we put a final touch on those findings and we draw on what failed and had to be corrected: things like reporting mechanisms, role of the frontex fundamental rights officer, the interplay between frontex and national border authorities. but we also highlight the progress made. since agency changed at the very top, the advances in new procedures, better accountability and oversight with visible effects in operational terms, in important pressure points at our borders such as moldova or ukraine.
