i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 15 december 2022.
dear colleagues, last week marked one year since our friend and president, david sassoli, passed away. i have lost count of the number of times this year that i wanted to pick up the phone to ask his opinion. his clarity of thought, his vision for a europe of equality and justice, his championing of the most vulnerable in our societies are things that define our common european mission and this european parliament. david left his mark on our project and on all of us. in his last public address, he referred to europe as a ‘project of hope – a project to unite us all, a project that embodies our union, our values and our civilisation’. i promised a year ago that this parliament would continue to honour his legacy, and i know that we will keep that promise. today, we also mourn our colleague miroslav číž, who died on 29 december. i ask you all to stand for a minute of silence to remember. (the house rose and observed a minute’s silence.) on iran, it has been a long 120 days since women, men, students, academics and so many more in iran took to the streets chanting ‘women. life. liberty’, demanding respect for their right to live freely. those standing up in iran have inspired the world and i want to tell them that we will not leave them alone. i’ve just come from a rally outside where i repeated our call for the international community to respond forcefully to the terror that has been unleashed by the regime on the people on the streets of iran. we must crack down on iran’s revolutionary guard corps. we need those responsible for the killings, those responsible for the executions, those who prefer to see free people held forever in chains and those who provide drones used to kill ukrainians to be held accountable. the people on the streets are on the right side of history; they will make history, and we will stand with them as they do. on ukraine, colleagues, these last days saw again a series of indiscriminate strikes by russia against people in ukraine. we saw how residential buildings were targeted. women, children massacred. the images of dnipro will haunt forever all those who saw them – all those who were forced to live through them. the bravery and resilience of the ukrainian people should be an example to all. they have shown the world that might does not equal right. that terror will not break ukrainian spirits. europe will continue to support ukraine – politically, humanitarianly, militarily and financially. the eur 18 billion financial package that this house voted for will begin to be disbursed this week. our ‘generators of hope’ campaign is in full swing, with towns, villages, cities all doing their part to help power ukraine. i am so proud of our response and i know that we will stand with ukraine for as long as it takes. i also wanted to speak about the decisions needed on measures in the house to increase integrity, independence and accountability. the european parliament prides itself on its openness, its accessibility and its defence of legislating in the public eye. we are not in some imaginary ivory tower. the principle of ‘openness builds trust’ is one we hold dear and that we defend. any abuse or misuse of the tools that we created for this purpose must be addressed strongly, systematically and with any potential weaknesses addressed. the events of the past month have led to a need to re-build trust with the european citizens we represent. we must acknowledge this. citizens, rightly, demand accountability and integrity. we will respond. i promised you last month that we would come back with a series of reforms. with group leaders, we have agreed on a first-step approach on a number of points that can go a long way. this is the beginning, not the end. we will start with measures that we can implement quickly while starting the process for a longer-term reform. consultations will continue across the board. as a starting point, we will look at how we can implement a revolving door policy, at how we can ensure more transparency, of how we can improve accountability and checks of interest representatives, of how we can better control who has access to our premises. we will ask for more transparency also when it comes to those representing third countries and their interests and from former members. we will shine a brighter light on what we do as members, with more and clearer information being made available to the public. we will enforce rules that disallow any activities that could create confusion with official european parliament activities – particularly when it comes to interaction with third countries. we will do more to ensure that the public has clear information on our financial declarations and we will ensure more training on whistle-blowing and compliance. we will propose measures to boost the fight against corruption and on how we can push back against foreign interference. we will strengthen our systems, address any shortcomings, and be honest and open throughout this process. and we will do all of this while protecting the freedom of our mandate as elected representatives. we will not hinder that – we will do the opposite and do so while highlighting the important, crucial role played by meps in european decision—making and our role in making the lives of europeans a little bit safer, a little bit fairer, a little bit more equal. our house is the embodiment of european parliamentary democracy and i need your help to ensure that the pillars holding it up are strengthened. we owe this to our citizens, to all those who came before and to all those who come after.
i give the floor for a point of order to mr ruiz devesa.
thank you, domènec. the minutes and the texts adopted of the sitting of 15 december are available. are there any comments? as that is not the case the minutes are approved.
i have received requests from the competent authorities in belgium for the parliamentary immunities of andrea cozzolino and marc tarabella to be waived. these requests have been referred to the committee on legal affairs.
the epp, s&d, renew europe and id groups have notified me of decisions relating to changes to appointments within committees and delegations. these decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and take effect on the date of this announcement.
the empl committee has decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1) of the rules of procedure. the report, which constitutes the mandate for the negotiations, is available on the plenary webpage and its title will be published in the minutes of the sitting. pursuant to rule 71(2), members or political groups reaching at least the medium threshold may request in writing by tomorrow, tuesday 17 january at midnight, that the decision be put to the vote. if no request for a vote in parliament is made before the deadline, the committee may start the negotiations.
i would like to inform you that, together with the president of the council, i shall, on wednesday, sign three acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure in accordance with rule 79 of parliament’s rules of procedure. the titles of the acts will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
i would like to inform you that we will proceed, on wednesday 18 january, with the election of the new vice-president of the european parliament, replacing eva kaili. regarding this election, i remind you that the deadline for submitting nominations is tomorrow, tuesday 17 january 2023 at 19:00. the nominations should be handed in to the office of the deputy secretary-general in the open-plan area of the plenary services, and include the candidate’s acceptance. the vote will be held on wednesday at noon.
we now come to the order of business. the final draft agenda as adopted by the conference of presidents on 12 january pursuant to rule 157 has been distributed. now, i have received five requests for debates on the same topic taken from different angles. i will read all the requests out now and then we could potentially agree on a debate that could garner the majority with the broadest possible overview. this would be my proposal. the timing of this would be on tuesday afternoon, and the vote on the title would take place by a recorded vote. i will read them out. the left group has asked that a commission statement on ‘the suspicions of corruption linked to morocco and other third countries in european institutions’ be added as the second point in the afternoon. the id group has asked that a commission statement on ‘immediate establishment of an inquiry committee into the political responsibility for ‘qatargate’ in light of article 226 tfeu’ be added. the greens/efa group has asked that the commission statement on ‘ensuring transparency, integrity and accountability of eu institutions’ be added to the agenda. the s&d group has asked that the commission statement on ‘new developments related to malign political interference from third countries within the eu institutions’ be added to the agenda. the ecr group has requested that a commission statement on ‘new developments in the corruption cases in the eu institutions’ be added to the agenda. so we need to find a title that would bring all these together. i would think that unless the groups have come to an agreement, we will hear from mr séjourné, ms reintke and ms aubry.
madam president, colleagues, i could now defend our proposal because we think it’s the best, but i’m not going to do that. i think if it’s very important for the other groups to have this aspect of new developments added, that can be fine. but for us, it will be very important also to focus on integrity and transparency measures, so to have that definitely in the title. and if you would like to add the specific country names, i think that’s also fine for us. but we really want to focus on what do we do now and what kind of measures do we need to put in place to prevent things like this from happening in the future.
madam president, if i may, i would remind mr garraud that this committee is included in the resolution voted by this parliament in december. i would remind him of this good reading, and i will also remind him that the way in which a committee of inquiry can be set up here in the european parliament is not by a resolution of parliament, but by a procedure which is fixed, by a proposal for a mandate and by collecting signatures, which allows the plenary to decide. i think that what you are doing, mr garraud, at the moment, is more a matter of gestures than of serious parliamentary work.
so would you agree that i put mr séjourné’s proposal to a vote? i see that the house agrees. the title would therefore be as follows: ‘new developments in allegations of corruption and foreign interference, including those related to morocco, and the need to increase transparency, integrity and accountability in the european institutions’. we put that request to a vote. (parliament approved the request)so this will mean that tuesday’s sitting will be extended until 23:00. i have a request from the renew group, that has asked that a commission statement on ‘the eu’s response to the appalling attack against civilians in dnipro: strengthening sanctions against the putin regime and military support to ukraine’ be added as the fourth point in the afternoon. i give the floor to mr séjourné to move the request on behalf of his group.
thank you, stéphane. does anyone want to speak against this request? i see that is not the case, so i put the request to the vote. (parliament approved the request)the commission statement is therefore added as the fourth point in the afternoon tomorrow. for wednesday, the greens/efa group has requested that a commission statement on ‘criminalisation of humanitarian assistance, including search and rescue’ be added as the sixth point in the afternoon. i give the floor to tineke strik to move the request on behalf of her group.
madam president, tineke strik mentioned greece and italy, we all seen the court cases in greece. the accused have been acquitted. the courts have been closed. so, if the greens want to compliment greece on the independence of the judiciary there, they can do so in a press release, but not through a debate. we could even do a press release together if you would like. but the epp is always ready to debate migration, because there are plenty of reasons to do so: 330 000 illegal border crossings in 2022, more than 136% increase in the western balkans, with over 100 000 asylum applications per month, the highest numbers since 2016. we should debate these alarming numbers, but that is, unfortunately, not the focus of this debate. and we cannot ever only debate ngos, humanitarian aspects and search and rescues and ignore all the rest. so, this parliament wants a holistic approach to migration. let us also debate holistically. the search and rescue contact group will be reconvened this month. next month we will have the special eu summit on migration. so instead of this rushed debate this week, let us have a deeper, a wider and more comprehensive debate next month in our plenary on migration.
madam president, the epp has decided to withdraw from a debate on the urgencies and negotiations. but after a meeting of the conference of presidents, an agreement was reached on all the urgencies: the procedure will go through your office to check that the rule of 500 words is being respected. we understand that we reached the agreement on this issue, but unfortunately we have not tabled our proposals for these plenary sessions. and it’s quite sad and strange that, as a rapporteur for azerbaijan who is preparing a report that will be voted in afet in forthcoming sessions, we will reduce the serious issue of the lachin corridor only to 500 words. and i think it’s these urgencies that will be debated and discussed this session. i ask all our colleagues to be a bit more serious about the issue and ask for a full debate. i do not know if this can be changed, but this issue requires a full debate at these plenary sessions because the humanitarian situation there is dire.
since the request for the change to the agenda arrived after the deadline, which was 16:00, it’s not possible, but point made and i guess taken. the agenda is now adopted and the order of business is now established. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments)
dear colleagues, can i ask you to take a seat in order for us to watch a video as we start the ceremony of the 30th anniversary of the single market. (a video was shown in the chamber) i welcome to the plenary the swedish minister for european affairs, jessika roswall, commission vice-president margrethe vestager, internal market and consumer protection committee chair, anna cavazzini, dear members and colleagues. in february 1992, when addressing the european parliament, then commission president jacques delors called the creation of the single market the beginning of a new era. and so it was. the single market has been a cornerstone of european integration, which united europe at a time when the weight of walls and iron curtains felt so heavy. we tore down internal barriers and replaced them with common values, creating a place where goods, persons, services and capital could freely move around. it was not just an act of symbolic unity. it was about something far greater than that. it was about freedom, about prosperity and, above all, opportunity. opportunity for all citizens to be able to live, work, study and travel anywhere within our union, knowing that their fundamental rights and freedoms will be protected throughout. opportunity for businesses – large and small – to establish themselves wherever they choose, giving them greater market access while fostering competitiveness. opportunity for consumers to have wider choices at cheaper prices and with stronger consumer protection that will account for their interests. and perhaps the one most often overlooked: the opportunity for our collective interest. being the world’s largest single democratic market has strengthened our place in the world, and here europe has far more leverage than we sometimes give ourselves credit for. the single market is one of our union’s greatest achievements; truth be told, it has become indispensable to us all. today, our single market accounts for 56 million european jobs. it has raised the european union’s gdp between 8 and 9% on average, and it has even accounted for over 1 million babies born to erasmus couples over the past 30 years. and yet, with war having returned to our continent, with dwindling energy supplies and inflation rising, it is easy to fall into the warped narrative of eurosceptics. i cannot talk about a single market without mentioning the regretful departure of the united kingdom, where we truly understood what it means to be part of the single market. we also saw what the single market meant during the covid—19 pandemic. on the one hand, the unilateral measures by member states caused disruption and panic, while on the other hand, the joint procurement of vaccines and the adoption of the recovery and resilience facility showed europe’s ability to react quickly and effectively when acting together. so that is why moments and celebrations like these are important to remember just how far we have come, why our way of open markets and societies works, and why we need to continue preserving and promoting our single market as a whole. right now, europe is at a crossroads. our european way of doing things is being put into question. this is exactly the time when we need to build on our biggest assets. we must speed up investment in europe to put the european economy back on the stable path of growth. but for this to happen, we also need to do more to level the playing field, especially as we accelerate the green and digital transitions of our economies. the adoption of the digital services act and the digital markets act are key steps in the right direction – ones that we can be proud of. dear colleagues, we have done a lot in the past decade. we have come together as a union and we have transformed the lives of millions of europeans. but 30 years after its launch, the single market is still developing and adapting to new challenges. my hope going forward is to recapture this sense of spirit and, in doing so, to renew our engagement to bring the single market back to european citizens. and this is how we will be able to rest assured that it will not take another 30 years to finish what we have started. i will now give the floor to minister for european affairs ms roswall. jessika, you have the floor.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, this is my first time to speak in this important house representing the council. i am looking forward to many other debates also. the single market and its four freedoms are one of the biggest achievements of the european union. over the last three decades, the single market has proven to be a powerful driver for competitiveness, cohesion among member states and prosperity for our citizens. today, the single market counts over 460 million consumers who have access to a wide selection of goods, services, and better job opportunities across the eu. consumers benefit from our single market rules, which ensure safe and high—quality products and services. these rules have in many cases become international standards, reinforcing the eu’s role as a norm-setter at global level. the single market is also a driver for innovation. europe has managed shortages of products during times of crisis by encouraging innovation and diversifying supply chains across europe. as we come out of the covid—19 crisis and its effect on supply chains, we now face a series of challenges to our economy as a result of russia’s war of aggression. in light of this, it is important to recall the well—functioning single market is our best ally for a competitive and resilient european economy. the single market is not a finished project and will never be, as was said in the film. it’s constantly moving. more work is needed to deepen it, to remove remaining barriers, and to prevent new ones from emerging. in the current global economic context, we cannot waste this opportunity. looking ahead, the single market is also our main instrument for achieving the green and digital transitions. the ingredients of our success of the last thirty years – common regulations, standard-setting, mutual recognition, consumer protection, level playing field and innovation – it is the recipe for successfully mastering this twin transition as well. as regards the digital transition, new rules and regulations for the digital age have already been adopted – including the digital services act and the digital markets act – and many more will be adopted shortly. such rulebooks, if wisely designed, will make europe a global standard-setter for the digital world. digital companies within the service economy are the perfect example of why we need a fully functioning single market with harmonised rules – because there are no physical borders in the digital economy. the single market is also instrumental to reach the objective of climate neutrality by 2050. the eu needs to be a front-runner in the green transition and make sure that fit for 55 is fully implemented. that’s the reason why we will prioritise both the green transition and competitiveness during the swedish presidency. only about a month ago we invited the european parliament’s conference of presidents to stockholm and last week the college of commissioners to kiruna in the north of sweden to see the green transition in practice, and how it is a business opportunity for europe. the 30th anniversary of the single market will continue to be highlighted during the swedish presidency of the council. the eu needs a new, long—term plan and a vision for how the single market can be a strong and sustainable engine for jobs, entrepreneurship, and sustainable growth over the next 30 years to come. let us work together to achieve this. thank you very much for your attention.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, honourable minister roswall, thank you very much for the invitation to this important celebration of our crown jewel: the single market. thirty years, experienced, still sparkling. the single market is one of the greatest achievements of european integration. it’s the backbone of the european economy, and it’s a source of prosperity, of wealth for europeans being transferred into welfare for the individual citizen. without it, not possible. for 30 years now, the single market has provided countless benefits to every european. the single market enables us to live, to work, to travel wherever we wish in europe. it offers consumers protection, safety, greater choice at lower prices. and we can trust the products that we purchase in the union as they are safe and based on the same standards. and with the work done in this parliament, this will indeed also be even more true in the future when we purchase things online. similarly, consumers can be assured that companies operating in the single market, that they respect high labour standards, that they respect the environment. and even more so when we get, hopefully, to an adoption of the platform workers legislation. so it also goes when it’s online. businesses, they have access to 450, 460 million people. and that, of course, is the basis for opportunities for scaling, for building amazing companies. and the single market has changed the way we trade with one another. it is not the same. we have removed trade barriers. we have removed physical customs controls, which made trading goods both costly and unpredictable. and now we have seen it live with the sad story of brexit and all the troubles that come back. national rules, well, they prevented companies from trading across border. they are now harmonised. obstacles for more than 80% of physical industrial products have been removed. and the single market plays a crucial role in our efforts to tackle climate change, ensure clean energy sources and developing digital technologies. the single market makes things happen. and when we celebrate the 30th birthday, i think we can be really proud of what we have achieved together as a result of our european democracy. but as we celebrate and look back, i also think about all these achievements, that we cannot take it for granted. this is not a given. this is not forever. we are instead dealing with a precious asset that needs to be preserved every day for the well-being of the single market, also for the next 30 years. more ambition, more effort is needed to simply pursue further integration of the single market and to take away the barriers that keep creeping in. there are intense discussions about how to improve europe’s competitiveness and to accelerate the twin transitions. we are looking at our state-aid rules to amend and to simplify where necessary. and it can be a short—term boost, of course, but we do not build competitiveness out of subsidies. this must be a temporary adjustment. we build competitiveness out of a well—functioning, dynamic and innovative market. and also, of course, there can be no successful twin transition without the single market. i continue hearing companies and citizens reporting a number of persistent obstacles, such as the misapplication of rules from one member state to another, or lengthy or diverse national administrative procedures that hampers cross—border trade, that hampers investment within the single market. and we need to answer to that, because these are the fundamentals of this union, and we need to take upon these issues obviously very seriously, not by continuing making more rules. this is not a competition of piling up burdensome requirements. we need to do what we do best: provide a stable and manageable regulatory framework, both for our companies, for our administration, a regulatory framework that can travel because it sets a standard; sparkling and experienced. it has been said that you cannot fall in love with the single market. well, i’m passionate about it. i hope you share it with me.
that concludes the ceremony.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the 30th anniversary of the single market (2022/3015 ((rsp)).
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the single market has boosted economic growth in the european union. but the impact of the single market on people's lives goes far beyond the economy. the single market then helps to maintain peace, improves relations between countries, enhances freedom and tolerance, and protects law and democracy. if we had completed the single market, many of today's problems would be much easier to solve in the future. for example, in my country, slovakia, completing the single market would increase the gross domestic product by between three and a half and 5.7 billion euros a year, which is roughly the same amount that slovakia gives out of public expenditure on education as a whole. and that's almost as much as we spend on health care. but let us not forget that the success of the european union was, and probably will be, the single market, not a common centrally planned economy.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first of all i want to thank you for, i think, a very interesting debate. for a number of very thoughtful points raised during this discussion. after having heard this debate, i guess that we can all agree on one common denominator: the single market is the backbone of the european union. as such, it needs to be preserved in times of crisis: fully implemented, where there are fragmentations that still exist, and adjusted when it comes to obsolete developments in our economy. and there is another common denominator of this debate, and that is ambition. ambition for more, for a better, deeper single market. for a single market that is fairer, where competition is the rule and where sustainability is promoted. and that ambition is what we built on. and this is why this celebration of the single market is also a celebration of our democracy. for citizens to see how their representatives have been pushing forward decade after decade after decade, still with the ambition to make it better. and i agree very much with the resolution that, in order to advance and overcome the current challenges of the single market, it needs, as it says, renewed commitment from the eu member states and eu institutions and that strong political will is needed in this regard. and in this respect, the european commission is fully committed to work at all levels and with all actors to strengthen and to advance the single market. moreover, in the light of the 30th anniversary, we are also planning a campaign to give visibility to the achievements and to have a broader discussion about the future. and, of course, we stand available to join or to promote or to participate in events in your constituencies. the pandemic that we went through. the lockdowns, the queues. well, it taught us that only a properly functioning single market can enable us in a critical situation and can make us come out of a critical situation strengthened. and this is why i’m confident that in five and in ten years’ time, we will be able to celebrate again further progress built on the ambition expressed today.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members and commissioner, thank you for the debate and inspiring debate and celebration. your interventions today have shown that the single market remains one of the main assets of the european union. it is the cornerstone of our economy and our prosperity. at times of turbulence, uncertainty, and fragmentation, it brings our countries together. it is the key to economic growth, jobs, social cohesion, resilience and recovery, today and tomorrow. it will clearly be a building block of the long-term response to the challenges the european union is facing, and part of the strategy to boost the competitiveness and productivity called for by the european council in december. so this has been a historical debate. the past 30 years have been a true success story. let us now look forward. our success in introducing the necessary reforms for this will be crucial for europe’s role in the global economy. therefore, let us work together to protect the single market, improve it, make it the cornerstone of the european competitiveness and prosperity for the next 30 years. thank you again very much for the debate and for your attention.
the debate is over. the vote will take place on wednesday 18 january 2023. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. 70% to 80% of estonian exports go to other eu member states. the possibility to trade freely on this market without tariffs or other barriers has brought many benefits to the estonian economy. estonia has received considerable sums from the european union budget, for which i am of course grateful. but i am convinced that the opportunity to trade in the european single market has had a far greater impact on our economic development than the money we receive from the budget. the single market must be protected against protectionism and must be further developed. both the services market and the digital single market need to be strengthened.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs lidia pereira, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the draft rules to prevent the misuse of the 'box entities' for tax purposes (com (2021) 0565 c9-0041/2022 2021/0434 cns)) (a9-0293/2022).
in writing. if we are serious about climate targets and emissions reductions, we cannot continue to pretend that the 32.7 million tonnes of waste we exported from the eu in 2020 and the related emissions do not affect us beyond our borders. i therefore fully support the tightening of the rules on the transport and management of waste, which must be in line with environmental requirements, and the introduction of appropriate penalties for illegal trade, which is one of the most widespread environmental crimes. the commission will also be able to use the eu recovery plan to support the circular economy in the eu, while ensuring that waste that cannot be recycled can be efficiently used as an energy source.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. extremist attacks are escalating in slovakia. this time, the target of their attacks are the roma in the town of michalovce, who have been terrorized for several weeks by fascist politicians who have used the brutal crime of an individual, a person living in the roma community, to terrorise all roma in slovakia by applying collective guilt. it has gone so far that the fascists want to establish home defense as a tool for physical aggression against the poor people living in the roma communities. it's absurd how much our democratic systems can overlook. we're looking at racist attacks on social media, we're looking at fascist threats, humiliation, the application of collective guilt. many of these politicians who are threatening roma in slovakia today, admire hitler with impunity, deny the holocaust, and we are still silent. how long will you be silent, colleagues? how long will fascist politicians be free, or even in democratic institutions like this parliament?
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i welcome the fact that we're talking about the online video game industry today because it's growing so fast and it's having such tremendous economic and cultural significance around the world. the video game industry is also extremely important to my country. poland, as one of the few countries in the world, has already become a net exporter of computer games in 2020. the online video game industry in the european market is mainly composed of small and medium-sized enterprises with high growth potential. so we have to be very careful not to put too much pressure on these companies, not to stifle their innovation and creativity. in this context, i believe that the report on which we are going to vote tomorrow contains many controversial passages. unfortunately, it lacks flexibility in this highly innovative sector. for example, i would be extremely cautious about the idea of mandatory age verification for players. this is because it violates the privacy of the users.
mr president, commissioner, there is no doubt that the video games sector, a highly innovative cultural and digital sector in the european union, has experienced an impressive boom in recent years. i welcome the objectives set out in this report, which reminds us that we must aspire to be leaders in the global video game market, always promoting the development of talent and our way of doing things, our market and our rules. i would like to highlight four key aspects in this regard. the first is the positive effects of video games and their cultural value. we always talk about the harmful effects, but let us focus on the unique creative value that this sector has. video games can provide interactive channels for educational and training purposes. let us legislate and work so that it is also a cultural channel. secondly, the fundamental mechanisms for protecting the consumer, especially minors. half of the europeans using these platforms are between six and 24 years old. useful parental control tools are essential, so we need to communicate more and better. thirdly, the service providers. the functioning of online games depends on connectivity and a strong infrastructure. the metaverse, artificial intelligence or the transformation of the internet from 2d to 3d. there are many digital initiatives coming up and it is essential that we ensure the smooth functioning of the solvent networks that can underpin this connectivity. finally, i welcome the inclusion of disabled people in the text. the european single market must also be inclusive and accessible. i think that the rapporteur, mrs adriana maldonado, has done a great job with the alternative rapporteurs and that is why i think that this own-initiative report should be supported.
mr president, mr commissioner, video games are not new, video games are not evil, as some in the nineties would have us think. video games are just as much part of our culture as our music and films. it is part of being european and our identities. we have a strong gaming industry in europe and this is something we should treasure. at the same time, we must recognise that video games have moved past the single-player adventure games of the past. these are new worlds with new financial models, where players interact with ever-changing games and an infinite number of other users. we must take care that this new reality still respects basic values and honesty was users and their families. if we give our children unlimited candy, they will eat themselves until they are sick. if you let an adult gamble with someone else’s money, they will gamble until it is gone. video games can be true pieces of art; i only hope that we can keep them that way.
mr president, commissioner, if it isn’t broken, don’t fix it – this should be the important guideline for eu institutions to cope with the risk of overregulation. the rapporteur has made a balanced report about consumer protection in the gaming industry. there is no real problem but she demands more regulation. she states explicitly that the existing consumer protection regulation is a strong basis for people who play games, especially children. the gaming industry itself made a classification system and a code of conduct that helps parents choose the right games for their children and industry to act responsibly. the current rules are sufficient to protect our children. the weak link in the system is the inability of our member states to enforce rules. it makes no sense to make more rules if the current ones pose a serious challenge for our law enforcement. the eu is a law-making factory, but in this case it would be wise to restrain ourselves and let the sector take its responsibility and parents do the guidance. if we take away responsibility by regulating everything and everyone, we lose the fundamentals of a stable society.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. video games are one of the fastest growing sectors of the cultural and creative industries. the market size in europe is estimated at over 23 billion euros, already more than the music or film industries. more than 90 000 jobs are associated with the sector and this number is constantly growing. it is therefore essential that we also pay sufficient attention to this sector and set balanced rules for it, ensuring that the video games market functions clearly and safely so that it can contribute to job creation, culture and innovation. it is also important to note that up to 73 percent of children between the ages of 6 and 10 and up to 84 percent of teenagers are actively involved in video games. we therefore need to put in place a sufficient safeguard mechanism to protect the most vulnerable. one, from inappropriate content, and two, from the threat of addiction. the good news is that this proposal also represents a balanced compromise for the safe development of the video games industry.
mr president, commissioner, in recent years the gaming industry has grown considerably thanks to the many small and mediumsized enterprises. this has led to a lot of technological development and jobs in the eu. it 's a fact . the gaming industry has a lot of potential. but let's also think about who's playing these games. because at least three quarters of the gamers are between the ages of six and 14. children should not be exposed to extreme violence and aggressive commercial advertising in online games. be assured: we will do everything we can to prevent the sexual abuse and exploitation of children on online gaming sites. we do this by setting clear requirements for information on the minimum age of games. we also do this by taking a strong stand against manipulative practices in games, such as the use of loot boxes. finally, i call on the european commission to develop, in cooperation with industry, new tools to encourage grooming in chat rooms and on gaming sites. i would also urge the commission to optimise the technologies around video hashing. this will help us address the growing problem of child sexual abuse in games and create a safer online environment. every child in europe deserves that.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the online video games sector needs to be approached at the level of the european single market, because a large part of the consumer base is made up of children. therefore, a resolution that goes in the direction of strengthening user protection is an important step in building a safe online environment for all users. in this sense, the pegi labelling system, which is only implemented in some member states, is an effective tool in providing information on the recommended minimum age and in protecting minors from inappropriate content in games and in intercepting gambling elements such as random prize boxes and mysterious pay-to-play boxes, so-called loot boxes. but this may not be enough if europe fails to ensure further consumer protection through a widespread implementation of the pegi system in the different types of games available on the market and especially in europe. the fact that the volume of online games is increasing is not to be underestimated. the union will therefore have to adopt measures to control this phenomenon in order to protect consumers and especially the very young generation. the risk is that they are exposed to a path that is uneducational and misleading in relation to the values of leisure and entertainment to which online video games should refer, because i am convinced that digital games can play a decisive role in the development of children and adolescents only if they are able to promote processes of deepening and acquiring new skills and above all are able to stimulate their creativity.
mr president, i think we should all acknowledge that the gaming industry plays a really important role in the european union. in recent times, during the pandemic, we saw the real value of the industry in terms of the opportunity for socialising, for communicating, entertainment, the opportunities for jobs, businesses and also the real value in encouraging creativity and innovation. we see that 50 % of the population between 6 and 64 play video games, so that’s a strong industry, but we need to ensure regulation that will provide confidence to consumers, that their rights and that the online safety are concerns that they would have for their children are addressed. that’s why this report is asking that the current regulatory framework for loot boxes is sufficient, that will be examined, and that the situation of minors in particular is examined. with regard to loot boxes, a report for the imco committee outlined the potential exposure to psychological and financial losses. this study was done by the policy department and also outlined if it can be exploitative, lack transparency, create unfair gaming advantages. so we need to have these findings and these concerns addressed to give security to eu citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work, for her ability to put together a text which takes account of an important area for the single market, but also consumer protection. the european video game industry is the fastest growing cultural and creative sector in europe, contributing to the development of new technologies and providing over 90 000 jobs across europe. but we cannot ignore the dangerous implications of improper and unmoderate use of video games, as has been noted, which can have a negative impact on social relations, mental health, employment and academic performance. i also ask the question about the prize boxes, the so-called loot boxes, virtual coffins that can be bought during the game. many scientific studies have found a correlation between gambling and the loot box system, highlighting how they are able to manipulate underage users and push them to make microtransactions, triggering mechanisms of addiction and disturbance in them. i think the commission should consider whether the current regulatory framework for these prize boxes and in-game purchases is sufficient, and i say this as a parent, because these risks are of course available to all our users, but above all, the most at risk are our children.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago we succeeded here in making the world of online platforms a lot safer for consumers, and especially for minors, with the digital services act. today i find that protection in the european gaming industry is still insufficient. the so-called in-game purchases, or indeed the loot boxes that have been mentioned here today, are often misleading and in some cases even tend to aggressive market practices. our children and young people are being lured into unthinking payments in a non-transparent and manipulative way, without their knowledge. however, the gaming industry is a major digital player. good for innovation in particular, but also for jobs and economic prosperity in the eu. the commissioner, with this report, is asking you to work with the industry on consumer protection without being too much of a handful. let us be clear about that, but with adequate protection for the minors in particular.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that the european parliament has decided to make these reports on video games and sports. this is an issue that must be treated with care, with care, also by valuing actions such as the pegi approach, which has been put in place, which allows for clear rights and transparency, as well as the work we have carried out to increase the protections and the valuation of the positive aspects of video games, which are so many, of learning, of cognitive development. of course, risks must be checked, they must be contained, they must be controlled, but i think that with action such as the one we are taking forward we can put a value on a sector which creates a lot of jobs, creates opportunities and which must be one of our areas of commitment in europe to have a healthy and safe gaming environment for everyone.
a uachtaráin, a number of years ago, i organised quite a number of public events in relation to cyberbullying, which was very prominent at the time. hopefully things have improved and the opportunities for bullying are limited, if not eradicated. of course, the whole use of digital apparatus has grown, particularly amongst young people. indeed, from the time they’re in the cradle, young people have some type of digital device. as we saw, 75% over the age of six play video games. all that is positive. but i think it’s great that the commission and parliament are coming together to limit its negative effects – things like glorifying violence, things like grooming, things like encouraging gambling. and i think collectively we can do a great service to our young people and also, indeed, to the industry itself so that it does what it is supposed to do: provide clean entertainment to our young people.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i want to repeat that the commission welcomes the balanced approach of the report, which presents both the risks but also the benefits of video games. as i shared earlier, the commission has launched important initiatives to mitigate concerns as regards consumer protection in the field of video games. these include better implementation of the existing eu consumer protection rules, as well as the actions under the ‘better internet for kids’ strategy. moreover, the ongoing fitness check of consumer law will specifically address the protection of consumers in video games. you can rest assured that the commission is committed to continuing to protect eu consumers, in particular young people, while ensuring that the video game industry can continue its contributions to the digital economy and in bringing joy to the gamers. so thank you for the report, thank you for your balanced approach and thank you for your attention.
the debate is over. the vote will take place on wednesday 18 january 2023.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the council and the commission on the rise of respiratory infections and drug shortages in europe (2023/2510 ((rsp)).
mr president we heard some fine words yesterday in the plenary on the 30th anniversary of the eu single market, which is important, but it is as if the citizens of europe have not yet been affected by this in the area of health services and products. i had to start this morning by hunting for a blood glucose sensor, looking in three pharmacies, which is a right for diabetics in germany, in hungary there is none of it, it's hard to get here. i bring a teenage boy home from here every month. is that normal? is it normal that there is no minimum healthcare in the european union that is the same for all european citizens, wherever they live? that is why we need a european health union, we need a health minimum, we need to implement a kind of stress test that maps the health care delivery in every country, including the pharmaceutical market and including the medical services. and we know what we're up against, because we need all citizens of the european union to have the same, minimum, quality health care. it is not fashionable to talk about healthcare at the european level sometimes, for example, during a pandemic, but to be equally active before and after a pandemic.
mr president, as we can see, rising rsv, and cases of flu and corona have created enormous pressures on our health systems across europe. and they’ve also highlighted a gap in terms of supply of essential medicines. the number of out—of—stock medicines in ireland has risen to over 200 this week, and this is also in line with a pan-european shortage of critical elements that require a pan-european response. we need to evaluate our methods of procurement, purchasing, storage and distribution of these key medicines, and we need to move towards increasing domestic production in europe to reduce our dependency on imports. member states, led by the commission, need to discuss common procurement, as we did during the pandemic. the people of europe benefited from the common purchase of vaccines and they want to see this type of approach as well. as one speaker has said, we need to see more europe in this area, a european approach now, to benefit all of our citizens.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of parliament, first of all, thank you for this very important and constructive discussion. now i will start with what honourable member of parliament sokol spoke about, and he spoke about needing a european response. and i have already said in my opening remarks – and i will be repeating it in my closing remarks – that yes, we do have a european response and that european response will be the pharmaceutical strategy we will be presenting at the end in march and that i hope we will have the opportunity to discuss within the european parliament and the council and that it will lead to the solution of many of the issues that we all recognise, not now because of the pandemic, but for a number of years it has to do with access to medicines and affordability across our member states. now, since the pandemic we have all managed to work together, and i think that we also need to recognise that the work that we have done together in the pandemic, which i will not say has not resulted in any significant change, but i think that it is work that we can justifiably in many areas feel that we can take pride in, and it was work of the european commission, of the council and of the european parliament, and a great deal of what has been achieved was achieved because of the constructive discussions we had with this parliament. and because of our serious cross-border health threats regulation, which, as you know, is in place now, we do now have the measures we need to respond. we have now integrated approaches to respiratory viruses. we have more robust sequencing and diagnostic capacities in member states and we are supporting them with this, and we are reinforcing our healthcare workforce in many areas in this respect. we are still facing a pandemic, and i never said that this was over. but we are better now in the member states to identify, to assess and to respond to respiratory viruses than we were pre-pandemic. now, a great deal has been said by the honourable members of the european parliament. i will stand by some of the words said by mep cerdas and mep wölken, who spoke about standing together, and i believe that this is what we need to be doing in the areas of health. mep ştefănuță spoke about seeing an increase in respiratory viruses and that we are backsliding. i just wanted to mention here that i have been in touch with health ministers from very early on and i would say as early on as in the summer and autumn months, saying that in autumn and winter we would be expecting a surge possibly in respiratory viruses, so we have been working with member states on the level of preparedness as a commission from very early on. in the comments that we heard today there was a comment which also spoke of the cancer plan. and here i feel that the cancer plan and the strategy on cancer is really such an important initiative that we can all be proud of as council and as parliament. a great deal has been achieved in the last three years with cancer. we presented new screening guidelines recently, and believe me, i never watch passively any issue which is related to citizens’ health, not for any day. it was has also been said by mep limmer that we are part of the problem. i just want to say here that the european vaccine strategy i think is one of the biggest successes that we had in dealing with the pandemic, because every single european citizen had access to vaccines in every member state at the same time. now whether citizens decided to use those vaccines or not is different, because that’s very much a personal choice. but we did have vaccines available for all citizens. and vaccines do, as science says, prevent serious disease and hospitalisation and the issues of long covid. and from the very beginning we have always followed very clearly scientific advice when giving recommendations to member states. now what are we doing in the case of the drug shortages in the european market? the root cause of shortages of medicines is both very complex and is also multifactorial, and it can range from the vulnerabilities from the pharmaceutical value chain, the manufacturing challenges, the unanticipated increases in demand, and these are detailed in the commission study that we did on shortages. i heard mep metz and rivasi and kympouropoulos all ask what we are doing about this. and the european medicines agency has been working very closely – i’m very sorry, president, i’m going to take a little bit longer, but there were many questions – have been working very closely with the member states and industry in order to understand the root causes of medicine shortages, in order to monitor shortages and develop a stronger assessment, i would say, of the demands and the needs. and specifically, for example, the industry has reported the root causes of amoxicillin shortages, and these are due to production capacity issues following a reduction of the production volume during covid, then an unexpected increase in respiratory infections, particularly in children. and this is not an issue just affecting member states: it is a global issue. so what are we doing about it? we have strengthened the mandate, working with the european medicines agency as part of our proposals for the european health union. the european medicines agency has been working from day one of this issue with all the national competent authorities, with industry, with all the stakeholders in order to resolve this. we hold very regular exchanges between the ema and the national competent authorities with a single—contact working party. there are then discussions ongoing with industry in order to identify the problems and to see what correction measures can be taken. and this is really the crucial point. we need to understand that we need to have mitigation measures, including a close engagement with the marketing authorisation holders, including engaging with other manufacturers to determine if we have other production capacity. we are strongly encouraging all the national regulatory authorities to consider and use the regulatory flexibilities available, for example, to allow the exceptional supply of certain medicines or presentations which may be not authorised in one member state but may be authorised in others, and the eu has the opportunity to grant full or partial exemption to certain labelling or packaging requirements. so a great deal has been going on, also working at national level to advise to avoid hoarding. now on the issues to do with the open strategic autonomy approach in order to decrease dependency, which is extremely important, i think it was mep colin-oesterlé who opened up with this, we’re working on a very important project here of common european interest to increase production in europe and the resilience of the european industry post-covid. but this, of course, is ongoing. but let me be clear that the ongoing shortages we are seeing now are not linked to a shortage of active pharmaceutical ingredients. they are all linked to the huge upsurge of cases of covid we have in china. in terms of stockpiles, at this stage, the eu does not have an intention to increase stockpiles of medicines on the basis of the current set of circumstances, because where there is insufficient market manufacturing capacity, stockpiling would not be resolving these issues. now, on pricing, pricing and reimbursement does remain the responsibility of member states, but the eu does have a role to play, and the pharmaceutical strategy and reform will facilitate the earlier entry of generic, will improve transparency and will support the cooperation between the national authorities so as to exchange, for example, best practices on pricing, on reimbursement and procurement policies. so i will end here by saying that i hope to be able to put forward this proposal in march. we are very aware of the pressure that health systems are under because of the increase of the respiratory viruses and because covid is still ongoing. and we have been working since the very first days with member states and all our agencies to see how we can support, but i have also really highlighted this to member states from very early on, that this was the situation, the challenge that we would be facing in the autumn and winter months. thank you once again and thank you for the opportunity to be here.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, let me assure you that the action is being taken by the member states at national level as required. as you all are aware of, eu member states are responsible for the organisation and delivery of their health-care policies and services. the presidency, however, is ready to discuss possible coordinated actions and exchange of good practices. the shortage of medicines in the eu is a recurrent issue. therefore, in addition to resolve the current situation, we also have to consider long—term sustainable solutions to the structural causes of these shortages, as i said in my first statement. in this sense, i also would like to recall the important step forward that was taken by the co—legislation in 2022 with a revised and enhanced mandate of the european medicines agency (ema). the ema is now responsible for monitoring medicines shortages that might lead to a crisis situation, as well as reporting shortages of critical medicines during a crisis. mr president, the swedish presidency will continue to monitor closely the situation and also in close contact, of course, with the commission to consider any additional supportive measures that could be needed at the european level, both in the short and in the long term. we count on the parliament to be a part of these efforts. thank you very much once again for a very interesting debate.
that concludes the debate. written statements (rule 171)
member of the commission. i do not think that the commission is restricting breeding. at least the cap does not contain such a plan. we're promoting more sustainable farming. we're very supportive of animal welfare. breeding has declined in the european union over the last decade. there were 122 million large inventories per unit of production, 113 million left. the problem is that we have very few mixed farms, farms that combine crop and livestock production. it's a pity, we should try to maintain, to rebuild this kind of agriculture, because it's these mixed farms that are more sustainable. they have their own natural fertilisers, for example, for their farms. animal welfare, carbon farming practices rewarded by eco-schemes should improve the situation. as far as animal production is concerned, there really is no action that would force a reduction in animal production. the problem, of course, is that the intensity of farming varies greatly across the european union. there are countries, but there are also sectors of livestock farming where we see very high intensive livestock farming and converting it into a kind of industry. this is not a good trend. in any case, we do not support this development of agriculture or the conversion of agriculture into industry, and especially of livestock into industry. but sustainable farming, animal welfare is very strongly supported in the common agricultural policy. we're increasing welfare spending several times. of these plans, i have analysed that in the previous financial perspective, only eur 1.5 billion was allocated to animal welfare in the second pillar, and now there is at least eur 7.5 billion, which is five times more. this is really a vital support for sustainable farming that guarantees well-being. and that's the kind of breeding we want to encourage.
that concludes question time.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on new developments in allegations of corruption and foreign interference, including those related to morocco, and the need to increase transparency, integrity and accountability in the european institutions (2023/2527(rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members. last year will be remembered in history for russia’s brutal war of aggression and our unprecedented unity and solidarity with ukraine. i will always remember how we welcomed millions of ukrainian refugees, and how we remain strong and determined and stand by ukraine to this day and will continue to do so. but when i went home to sweden during the break, what did people say? what on earth is going on in brussels? instead of solidarity, they talked about suitcases full of cash. when i spoke here in strasbourg last, in december, i could feel the shock, shame and anger in this room – outrage that the alleged criminal behaviour of so few put at risk all the good work of so many. but i also felt the determination, the conviction and the will to learn, to change, to reform. in december, trust was broken. now we must pick up the pieces. now we must rebuild better and stronger than before. so i welcome the measures announced last week to increase integrity, independence and accountability in the parliament. that’s a good start. but we must do more. nothing but the highest standards will do for all institutions. that’s why it’s critical to have uniform, strong rules in place, guarded by a joint ethics body for all to answer to. vice-president jourová is in constant contact with parliament and the council, and the commission is ready to put forward a proposal. we can build on the interinstitutional agreement on the transparency register signed two years ago – a major milestone in fostering a common transparency culture. like all my colleagues, i can only meet businesses and organisations on the transparency register. we are uncompromising in upholding the highest standards of transparency about who tries to influence us. it’s normal for us to meet with civil society, with businesses and other partners. as politicians and leaders, we must always be ready to listen. we must always listen to words, but never ever to favours, gifts, bribes. that is totally unacceptable. that’s why we protect whistleblowers who report foul play. they are essential for the functioning of our democracy. we protect them with our own internal rules and with our eu laws – the directive on whistleblower protection – and the eu anti-fraud office, olaf, investigates allegations of wrongdoing. we will be debating one such case tomorrow, triggered by a whistleblower. the european public prosecutor’s office is proving its value day in, day out, defending the eu budget. it was the eppo that requested to lift the immunity of two members of the european parliament in december, and in its first seven months of operation, the eppo investigated more than eur 5 billion in losses to the eu budget. when we talk about fighting corruption, we must be clear: transparency and accountability will not be enough. corruption is a serious crime and we must fight it with the full force of law. 60% of criminal organisations are engaged in corruption. criminals are buying people, buying politicians, buying power. soon, i will propose a new law to criminalise all forms of corruption, with unified definitions of corruption and harmonised penalties across the european union. we are shaping the proposal as we speak, and i promise you that we will be as ambitious as we can, as tough as we possibly can, and give police and courts the tools they need to eradicate corruption. the scandal we are discussing goes beyond criminal corruption. in the media there are disturbing allegations about activities of foreign states, foreign agents. it’s normal for us to talk to foreign politicians, businesspeople, leaders. what’s unacceptable is any malicious interference in our internal affairs, in our democracies. high representative / vice-president josep borrell raised investigations with counterparts in qatar and morocco, making clear that we need thorough investigations. there can be no impunity for corruption. what cannot wait is the defence of our democracies. soon the commission will present a defence of democracy package to bring covert foreign influence and shady funding to light against third country entities, covertly impacting public opinion and undermining democracy. we must now urgently put plans and proposals into action to combat corruption and uphold transparency, accountability and honesty, both in our institution and on our continent. you can count on me that i will do everything in my power to this end, and so will the entire commission. and i know that i can count on you. i know that in this struggle we are partners. i know that this scandal affects all of you here in the european parliament very personally: you are sad, angry, but also determined to act. and i ask you to take inspiration from all we have done in the last three years. we’ve dealt with covid. we are dealing with this war. we can clearly also deal with corruption and root it out wherever we find it.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, madam commissioner, dear colleagues, this house has found itself at the centre of attention for all the wrong reasons. i’ve been most disappointed with some of our colleagues and even more upset that unacceptable illegal wrongdoings of individual members of the european parliament have already taken away the much needed political energy and public attention from issues that truly matter for europe and europeans, such as our commitment, support and unwavering dedication to the just fight of ukraine and its brave people against the russian aggressors. it is now our duty, dear colleagues, to come clean and to dispel the recent public doubts about european policymakers. let me look ahead in a more encouraging way on all of this. very frankly, i have never witnessed a situation where the institution itself is willing so openly and so strongly to address its own problems. this is the time when we must be straight, clear and absolutely honest. we do need direct naming and shaming. we do need true political responsibility. we do need full openness towards our citizens and to be credible on fundamentals. we do need to talk about the hypocrisy of some of our colleagues. it indeed speaks plenty that those members of this house who seem the loudest in defence of human rights, always eager to be critical of their colleagues, have now found themselves in the middle of this corruption scandal. i am convinced that the european parliament is prepared to deal with the problem that we are facing and to address the failures of individual rotten apples in this house. indeed, we have already been addressing this issue of malign foreign interference for more than two years in the special committee on foreign interference in our democracy, and we have been working and will continue to work on lessons from foreign capture of our institutions with experts, journalists, policymakers and our own services. dear colleagues, i am confident that we must and we will come out of the situation stronger and true to european principles.
mr. chairman, please. the european union in general and this house, the european parliament, in particular, have had an incredibly unfortunate hand in foreign policy. i have been present at dozens of debates in this house where the import of russian gas has been promoted over the security interests of europeans, where there has been an incredibly naive approach to dictatorships like russia and china, and where far too much of the energy of foreign policy has been spent on differentiating itself from the united states and, incidentally, being very anti-american in the whole approach to foreign policy. even today, with the war in ukraine, leading european countries such as france and germany will continue to be reluctant to supply, for example, tanks, which the ukrainians are very much in demand. that is why it is absolutely insane to hear that the answer to europe's foreign policy challenges is to give the eu and the european parliament more power. the answer is to let the nation states coordinate the best possible defense of our security through nato and with a strong united states behind it.
mr president, i would like to thank you. russia's attack on ukraine marked a break with decades of peace in europe. the images from ukraine of civilians killed, cities bombed to pieces and crying relatives have affected us all. where there used to be wars in other parts of the world, they have now moved very close to the eu's borders. the war has changed the world. energy policy has become security policy and industrial policy has become foreign policy. we're gonna have to take that off. solar and wind power are no longer just producing green energy, they are producing energy of freedom. the fact is that by freeing ourselves from fossil fuels we are making ourselves independent of the tyrants of the world, and this is our best weapon in the new security policy reality. but in a time of changing worlds, we must also remember that we must hold fast to our allies. and here i am thinking, for example, of japan, which is facing many of the same challenges as us. our strategic partnership with our global allies is not a weakness but a strength that can help us through times of crisis. we must not forget that in the pursuit of independence. thank you, sir.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament's report on the common security and defence policy is based on a lie. he would like to make it seem that a european defence union is possible and desirable, but in reality he is a hymn to nato, which he quotes 60 times. the european defence union is therefore a decoy designed to encourage a new move towards a federal europe. the proof of this is provided by paragraph 23 of the resolution, which calls for the replacement of unanimity with qualified majority voting in defence matters and for the establishment of joint and permanent multinational military units. in other words, a european army. so this is the prospect that is being set out for us: a european army under nato's command. as a frenchman, i strongly protest against this disastrous project which i consider totally contrary to the vital interests and military sovereignty of france. france's military infestation of foreign interests will not pass.
mr. president, please! first of all, i'd like to congratulate my colleague mcallister on a very good report. the report says that the eu's fairly united response to russian aggression in ukraine is evidence that we have learned from past mistakes and that our foreign policy position is improving. we're also slowly improving our approach to iran. i would also like to commend the president of the european parliament, mrs metsolo, who yesterday in her speech to the european parliament showed great courage and heartfelt support for the iranian women and protesters who are risking their lives simply because they are fighting for freedom and democracy. we are witnessing a tectonic shift in the geopolitical space that has become decentralized. in the present circumstances, the union must take a stand, assert the concept of strategic autonomy and restore the reputation that europe once had. and that's not something that can be achieved by so-called soft power alone.
mr president, i wish to thank both david mcallister and tom vandenkendelaere for their timely and poignant reports. dear colleagues, the eu’s power in foreign and security policy is also mirrored through our capacity to attract other countries to sign up to what the eu stands for. a good example of a successful foreign policy would be our ability to consolidate and accelerate the eu’s enlargement, based on shared values and respect for the eu’s fundamental principles. 2022 was, and i mean this with all seriousness, a historic year for eu enlargement. russia’s aggression against ukraine has finally been a wake-up call. candidate status for ukraine and moldova is a game—changer in our foreign policy and our partners are clear on where they see themselves in the future, and it is not in russia’s aggressive and authoritarian universe. candidate countries with clear european positions and values should be admitted to the european union, and after 24 february, we all have to see the geostrategic benefit of an enlarged and unified union. dear colleagues, this house must stand by enlargement and our closest partners.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, 24 june is on the calendar this year. on that day, at the southern border of europe, at least 40 people were killed and hundreds injured in a brutal police intervention that also included hot returns. seven months later, not only is no responsibility assumed, but the spanish prosecutor's office has decided to close the investigation. many of the people trying to reach europe were sudanese, from a country struggling to overcome one of the many forgotten conflicts on the planet. and that is that, although we do not open our newscasts and it has not been mentioned in this report, in the world there are armed conflicts in at least twenty-three countries affecting 850 million people, more than double the number a decade ago. conflicts that are being fuelled by our weapons and by our geostrategic and commercial interests, because for the european elites it seems that economic benefits are above human lives. but when people who are fleeing from these realities come knocking on our door, there is no point in opening it. europe must put an end to its racist and hypocritical policies and face the consequences of its decisions. there are no conflicts, no first-class refugees, no second-class refugees, depending on where they come from or the colour of their skin. the international rules are clear, we just need the political will to apply them.
mr president, the fact that the eu is the space with the most freedom and respect for human rights in the world cannot justify complacency or make us give up self-criticism. fundamental rights are violated in the eu. political dissidents are persecuted, illegally spied on, sentenced to prison, artists sentenced to prison for the lyrics of their songs, states such as spain which do not apply 61 % of the judgments of the european court of human rights. the double standard wipes away some credibility from the determination that the eu shows in its texts. we need to be more demanding with those at home if we are to be more pressing with those outside. and we need to be strong, because democracy, as the report shows, is more in danger than it was a few decades ago.
mr president, it has taken far too long, but here it is at last: the new eu envoy for religious freedom. thank you! we wish mr frans van daele every success, including in his cooperation with the parliamentary intergroup. i am outraged and concerned about the situation in nagorno-karabakh and in particular about the blockade by azerbaijan of the lachin corridor. and what surprises me most: why is the commission so silent? i haven't heard from mr. borrell. he's been tweeting about everything and everything, but nothing about this case. i'm very sorry about that. people are dying. there's no more medicine. in nagorno-karabakh, the misery is unfathomable. instead of making gas deals with president aliyev, the commission should say: listen, no gas deal as long as this aggression by the people of azerbaijan and the government there continues. so i'd like to hear, mr. reynders: why are you so quiet and not addressing this issue? this is a stain on human rights today.
madam president, commissioner, roughly speaking, three out of four people on the planet have seen their human rights deteriorate in the past year, which is also why this report makes for very sad reading. on the one hand, we see an intensifying pushback against democracy, against human rights, women’s rights globally. but what we also see is the more severe breach of human rights here in europe, on our continent, the most severe since the second world war. with its aggression against ukraine, russia has trashed the entire concept of human rights because it’s waging a war against the civilian population to cause maximum suffering and misery. the european union thinks of itself and aspires to be the global leader in protecting freedom, human rights and democracy. now, today, the single best way to prove that, is to help ukraine win this war.
i'm not going to tell you. colleagues, do you want to establish a tribunal to investigate war crimes in ukraine? okay, but first, i'm gonna ask you a few questions. when will there be a tribunal to investigate american war crimes in iraq, yugoslavia, syria, libya or the crimes in donbass? when will there be a court to investigate the non-transparent purchase of vaccines by the european commission president, leyen, herself? when will anyone investigate the collapses and deaths that are starting to show up after vaccines and bad vaccine policy? when will the culprits who conditioned the european nord stream pipeline and cut off europe's gas supply be punished? you know, calling for a court without a concern for the pursuit of truth and justice is hypocritical. and if there's to be some other political tribunal with pre-written decisions, thank you, we're not interested.
in writing. i consider the investigation of war crimes to be the right and important thing to do to restore and consolidate peace, and therefore the eu should promote in international proceedings the necessary measures to support the prosecution of russian regime officials responsible for war crimes. at the same time, i consider it necessary to abolish the russian veto in the un security council and to exclude the rf from the un. as was the case with the soviet union, which was expelled from the league of nations (the forerunner of the un) in 1939 after it militarily invaded poland and finland.
i'm not going to tell you. if we want to protect european money effectively, we need to improve a lot of things. i'll name two that get less attention than they deserve. first, there is transparency. we will start to publish all contracts with public administrations in the union, as slovakia does, for example. at the same time, we need to control who benefits from public procurement as the end user of the benefits. this is recommended by, for example, the world bank in its 2020 anti-fraud report or the international monetary fund in its 2022 ownership control guide. second, we need to measure outcomes, not outputs. it's not enough to measure the miles of roads that have been built. if the result is not improved traffic flow, reduced travel time, or reduced accident rates, then we have probably invested inefficiently. and even the best system will have its flaws. and it's difficult and expensive to detect and fix. it is more efficient to detect and correct system failures.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, in 2011 in utøya and oslo, 77 people were killed by a nazi terrorist. in 2020 in hanau, nine people were killed by a far—right terrorist. in 2022 in bratislava, two queer people were shot coming out of a gay bar by a right—wing extremist. this list is far from exhaustive, and you all know it; hundreds of people have been killed by far—right extremists over the past years. in december last year, security forces conducted one of the biggest anti—terror investigations in german history against an alleged far—right terror network trying to overthrow the constitutional order in germany. among the suspects, and i want to say this clearly, there was a member of the far right party afd, and not just any member, but a former member of the german parliament. these people planned to overthrow the democratic constitutional order in germany. they are especially dangerous, because many of them have a lot of money, they have resources, and they have very good links to police and security forces, as well as to the justice system. let me be clear, colleagues, in the twenties and thirties of the last century, many conservatives and liberals in germany made a fatal mistake. they believed that they could keep the far—right, the violence and the hatred for democracy, in check. they failed. you all know the outcome of this. we cannot let the same mistake happen again. i must say that also here in this house, i see very dangerous tendencies to normalise the far—right, not least today, where a far—right candidate also received votes from democratic groups. colleagues, we have to stand up to this far-right threat together, as democrats. these people are not playing. they are not making jokes. they mean it when they say that they want to overthrow our constitutional democratic order. we have to stop them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. the far right is present everywhere in europe in parliaments, here in this parliament, in governments, and they are networked throughout europe. in 2016 alone, 22 people were killed by nazis in germany. in 2021, anti-semitic crimes increased by 29 percent in one year. there were 1,042 right-wing violence incidents this year alone. that's three violent incidents every day in 2021. the offices of left-wing members of parliament, but also other members of parliament, are regularly raided. and i say, the police really need to take right-wing extremism seriously. and we want europol to finally broaden the definition of right-wing terrorist violence. this is necessary because right-wing extremism is aimed at the death of democracy and pluralism. especially in times of crisis, right-wing apologists construct very simple images of the enemy: foreigners, muslims, jews, homosexuals, they are all guilty of the misery of this world. we must fight this monster of right-wing extremism in the criminal justice system, in politics, in public, in parliaments and in the streets.
madam president, please. today's debate is yet another example of the unfortunate phenomenon that only right-wing atrocities reach the threshold of the european parliament's wrath. you're also taking a double standard in dealing with violence. and they believe that legality is a left-wing privilege. i would like to remind you that in 2006, the second year of our membership of the eu, this parliament did not even think of putting on the agenda the actions of the far-left, post-communist gyurcsány government against peaceful protesters. we could have had a fight. enough of the notion that the left always has a center and the right always has an edge. regardless of party affiliation, a common european response is needed in all cases where a group expresses its political opinion by violence. and in light of the growing corruption scandal, this honorable house should be conducting a review of itself.
madam president, the insurrection of 6 january 2021 in the us two years ago, the attacks in brazil, the uncovered plot against the democratic order in germany, but also the homophobic terrorist murders in my home country slovakia last autumn – they all share some common traits. while none of these plans and brutal killings would have happened unless there were real people willing to attack our democratic institutions, the actions of these extremists were set in motion with the immense help of the online space, as hateful behaviour and violent radicalisation thrive in an ever more dangerous way. there are many open and even more hidden dark spaces of the global internet, where calls to murder and attacks on democracy are not only tolerated, but nurtured and spread further. here, especially, young men and disillusioned adults find both an outlet and a foundation for horrendous ideas and terrible public acts. as we are learning lessons from the latest wave of extremism, some recipes for safeguarding democracy are already clear. first, seemingly simple disinformation can get amplified by a small number of politicians who have no respect for truth and democracy. i am pleased that the european union is setting regulatory boundaries to social media giants. however, colleagues, we must do a lot more to fight against the spread of disinformation, and stop malign interference in european democracy from abroad, especially from actors such as russia, always ready to exploit our weaknesses. second, we need strong and accountable security services that are technologically equipped to help prevent actions by extremists. let us recall, even the most recent attack on democracy in germany was prevented thanks to the work of democratic intelligence services. in short, whether it is lone wolves or an organised insurgency, attacks by extremists against the european way of life remind us, ever more urgently, that democracy in europe needs robust security as much as robust security needs strong democratic institutions.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the truth is that after all the crises that have hit europe, it's harder for people to live in europe. some have lost their jobs, some their health, or even some their loved ones. after all, today we face war in ukraine, enormous increases in energy and food prices. this desperate situation is a breeding ground for those who, while having no solutions, have love, populist talk, hatred, abuse, ridicule and humiliation. dear friends, we are facing a sharp increase in aggression, instigated by extremists and fascists. the result is hate attacks and even hate murders, as was the case in my country recently in bratislava. extremists are in power all over europe. in germany, the extreme right, the so-called reich citizens, attempted a coup d'état. in many countries, in recent years, we've been studying that extremist politicians are part of democratic parliaments. even here in the european parliament, we have elected members who admire hitler and deny the holocaust. in slovakia, in my country, there are fascists in parliament who have formed political parties and have affectionately called them the people's party or the republic. today, under the guise of democracy and freedom of speech, they call for the establishment of a national defense force to physically attack the roma. until recently, however, they wore uniforms, chased and beat people of color, shouted slogans, and publicly displayed nazi symbols. colleagues, we must open our eyes and admit that extremists are growing because of us. we just talk about it all the time and we just watch it. let's stop accepting that the expression of extremist views is freedom of speech, part of democracy. extremism is what terrorism is, ladies and gentlemen. extremism is a serious crime. let's not let them abuse democracy any more, please. extremists and terrorists belong in jail.
mr president, dear commissioner, colleagues, digital platforms significantly contribute to an increased competition. however, the legislation that should define fair rules for all employees, consumers and businesses is lagging behind. we need to set clearer rules that would secure adequate working conditions with clear employment status, social protection, and prevent practices such as false self-employment that discriminate thousands of workers and lead to unfair competition within businesses. finding the right balance between functioning businesses model and workers’ rights is a challenge, but improving social and labour rights needs to stay the priority of this house elected by the citizens. this is not about the automatic mass reclassification of workers that would cause the existential threat to the business models, as some even in this house claim. we claim that we want to increase transparency and avoid any shady lobbying practices. then it’s legitimate to ask, what is the reason behind the pushback of some members of this parliament who put the economic interests of those companies above the basic working and social rights of... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, dear commissioner, the ongoing blockade of the lachin corridor, which is the only way to connect armenian people from nagorno-karabakh with the republic of armenia, is deeply worrying. the eu has to call on azerbaijan to take all measures to allow the free movement of people and humanitarian goods through this corridor. the humanitarian situation in the region, already aggravated by a disruption of the gas supplies, further worsens and can soon be transformed into a humanitarian catastrophe if the blockade does not end immediately. around 120 000 people don’t have access to essential goods and services such as medication, food and fuel. we have to strongly condemn the blockade of the lachin corridor and urgently call on azerbaijan’s authorities and the peacekeeping forces deployed in the region to respect and implement the trilateral statements from 2020 and to ensure that access through the corridor remains open. we know that both countries, and especially armenia, are far from being satisfied with the implementation of the 2020 ceasefire. they should undertake genuine negotiation to find a sustainable and peaceful settlement that would ensure fair and lasting peace and stability in the region. but in the meantime, the lachin corridor needs to be reopened now.
mr. president, despite the untying of the hands of the police, the nominees of the former smer governments and their patrons are still protected in slovakia. the attorney general shamelessly invokes section 363, which dismisses the prosecution, especially when the accused are the friends, family, nominees, sponsors, associates of former prime ministers fica and pellegrini. he even used this loophole to drop charges against robert fico himself or robert kalinjak. it's the same scenario every time. just before the investigation results are handed over to the court, the attorney general applies section 363 and the corruption charges are dropped. the police even produced a video from the hunting lodge, in which robert fico himself boasts of coordinating with the attorney general. there are therefore reasonable grounds to suspect that the attorney general is abusing a loophole in the law in favor of the cronies of the direction and the voice. he is not ashamed to see the crime of kidnapping a vietnamese man who was brought from germany to slovakia and from there was secretly transported by government special forces to russia. while in germany all those who collaborated in this kidnapping were convicted, in slovakia the prosecutor general still sees no reason for criminal prosecution. what is a crime in germany is not a crime in slovakia.
i'm not going to tell you. i hear about war, i hear about weapons, i hear about sanctions, missiles, fighter jets and all kinds of things, but i haven't heard a single proper call for peace. the war in ukraine has been going on for almost a year. politicians race to be more pro-ukrainian, more pro-russian, but often forget that they should be concerned first and foremost with their own people. sure, it's easy for some of you to shout, let's send more guns, let's send more missiles, let's go to a bigger war. because you, fellow politicians, are not going to that war. that war would have been for ordinary people to die. but ordinary people are sick and tired of the price tag, the fear, and the dying. i would like the next summit between the european union and ukraine to bring not calls for more weapons, missiles and tanks, but on the contrary, finally some solutions and challenges to achieve peace. if it were up to me, that's what i'd be trying to do.
i'm not going to tell you. i have a pragmatic question about the eu-ukraine summit. we are all convinced that together with the americans we will defeat russia. and do we have option b? what if we don't beat this russia? no one in history has ever done that. as a slovak and a slav, i want to ask our western european friends: your fathers and grandfathers in fighting russia during world war ii killed about 20 million slavs, russians, belarusians, ukrainians, serbs and as a bonus, 6 million innocent jews. how many ukrainians and russians do you think will be killed before this war is over? but you don't seem to care. it's just in your genes. stop this madness, or you'll suffocate with that slavic blood. let's talk about an end to the fighting, let's talk about peace, and the excuses "hitler, putin, napoleon" don't work. if we don't, we're all going to shoot ourselves in the foot.
in writing. the mobilisation of european funds will be conditional on concrete measures that must directly and effectively help, in particular, vulnerable households and smes facing high energy prices. the addition of the repower chapter to the national recovery plans will force countries like slovakia to adapt the investment from the recovery plans to this dramatic situation. these include measures to increase energy efficiency, diversify energy supplies and invest in renewable sources. the dismissed slovak government, headed by the prime minister heger, is only discussing some reforms and investments for the time being, and it is questionable whether and when anything will be implemented. we know how the government has chronically failed to draw on the eu funds, when most recently it has not even met the conditions for using the anti-poverty grants.
in writing. in my view, the following would help to reduce the risk of corruption in the european parliament: 1. to transparency of voting in the ep, most votes are taken by hand and therefore without registration. citizens thus have no means of checking how their mep voted and whether he or she has kept his or her promises. i am in favour of all publicly available (non-procedural) votes being recorded electronically by name. as in slovakia, for example, where it is easy to see how each member of the national council of the slovak republic voted. 2. to easy search of voting results although only a limited number of votes by name are recorded in the ep, their results are not presented in a clear way on the parliamentary page. they're posted hours after the vote and they're not very searchable. it is then very difficult for a citizen or journalist to check this important activity of an mep. i therefore find it useful to make it possible to search ep votes by voting meps, by submitters or by voting topics. again, a good example is nr sr, which publishes the results of the vote almost immediately and has a clearer search in the votes. 3. to transparency of the production of materials eu materials are amended in negotiations which are not public. if the eu's material is not transparent, it is harder to reveal who has pushed for the changes. the negotiations on the proposals should therefore be open to the public. for example, as in the nr sr.
madam president, i urge you again to clear your name and get rid of the party that is a disgrace to you. excluse from your faction the party he chairs. fico just a few days ago threatened the police investigating the most corrupt cases that if he formed the next government, he would put them in order. since you have not been bothered by the fact that the smer party defies the principles of democracy, mocks human rights, dances on the graves of ukrainian victims, spreads putin's propaganda, coordinates its activities with fascists, whom fico can imagine as his ministers in the future government. he shamelessly refers to the partner armies as the wehrmacht. since all this didn't convince you, he has to convince you to expel them, that fico is threatening the police, wants to silence the investigators and obfuscate justice because the police are investigating corruption from the time of the fica and pellegrini governments. dear social democrats, if you want to protect your name and reputation, summon the courage to expel these mobsters from your faction.
madam president, the goal of a total reduction in emissions from passenger transport is indeed a huge contribution to the climate and at the same time a strong stream of modernisation in road transport with benefits for air quality, noise and public health. believe me, especially for slovakia, the country that produces the most cars per capita, it's a very fundamental shift, but it's not easy at all. from the beginning, i've insisted that we have a plan and funding for a comprehensive retraining of the workforce in this industry. i am very pleased that this requirement has indeed been incorporated into the text of the final agreement. it ensures that the transition to electric mobility is not only green, but also fair. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. it is crucial that this critical industry also meets strict environmental protection standards. no exceptions are possible. the principle of non-harm to the environment must remain a principle of just transition.
madam president, i would like to ask whether this european directive on emission reductions has been seen by any technician or is it written only by non-governmental activists and officials, because any technically educated person would condemn the pressure to reduce emissions to below the limits of what is physically possible. i'm just reminding you that the european union produces only 8% of global co2 emissions, and of that 8% only 13% comes from the automotive industry. that means that if the whole world doesn't start reducing emissions, my friends, europe simply won't survive. you say that from 2035 the sale of cars with combustion engines should be banned in europe and that people should be obliged to buy only electric cars. but i ask, where do these people get the money for these expensive electric cars? how much will electricity cost, since there is already a shortage? you say we need to reduce our dependence on oil. okay, but we're getting addicted to lithium, which is needed to make batteries for electric cars. and already asian companies are saying that if europe wants lithium, they won't sell it to us, and instead they'll sell us whole electric cars. which would mean the demise of the automobile industry in europe. i am all for the switch to electric mobility, but it has to be natural, it has to be thoughtful, and it has to be economically viable for people.
mr. chairman, the fight against climate change is the largest publicly funded project of humanity. so we have to do our best and focus on its effectiveness. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to the beneficiary in accordance with the conditions laid down in article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. i therefore cannot agree to a proposal to ban the sale of new combustion engine cars throughout the union, even in the short term. while removing one tonne of co2 through the emissions trading system costs less than eur 100, switching to zero-emission cars costs the same or up to ten times more. let's reduce emissions, but where it's most efficient.
mr president, (inaudible words) according to eurostat, transport emissions have increased by almost a fifth since 1990. the automotive industry today depends on imports of chips from taiwan, batteries from china, cobalt and lithium from other third countries. if we want to be a true leader in the transition to electric mobility, we need to strengthen our resilience and strategic autonomy. otherwise, we're going to leave this leadership to global players like china, japan or the united states, and just replace one addiction with another addiction. my home country, slovakia, is now the world's largest producer of automobiles per capita. such an ambitious shift to electric vehicles only by 2035 will be a major challenge not only for the large car manufacturers but especially for the much more vulnerable suppliers, who are today, of course, tied mainly to the production of cars with combustion engines. this transition will require massive investment, retraining and sustainable business plans and must take place in this decade, which is of course affected by the war in ukraine and rising energy prices. but i believe that by 2035, and thanks to our work, we'll be in a situation where, thanks to the accompanying measures, thanks to new technologies, a battery-powered car will be affordable for really anyone who needs it, not just people with higher incomes.
madam president, the national council of the slovak republic refused to accede to the istanbul convention containing gender ideology on 25 february 2020. now you want the european union to accede to this convention as a whole, and that such a resolution by the national parliaments, the slovak government, does not mean anything, that it does not interest anyone here. you know, every normal person is obviously against violence against women, but of course every normal person is also against the smuggling of gender ideology, as is in this document. we entered the european union to be able to trade and travel freely, not to have brussels or strasbourg tell us that there is no mother or father, but that there is one or two parents and that the same child can be born officially to two women or even two men. i mean, i feel like i'm in a madhouse sometimes. the istanbul convention certainly has its positives, but it cannot be the only holy grail and document that speaks about fighting violence against women. there are other, more natural ways to do this.
madam president, we're going to the moon, and we're about to make mars a vacation destination. students today are being written their theses by artificial intelligence. yet, the number of cases of violence against women continues to rise. and yet we still have countries that are afraid of the definition of gender and gender-based violence. we even have meps from slovakia who are terrorizing us with gender ideology. in the countries that rejected the istanbul convention, time stopped. they don't even collect statistics and data on violence against women. the european union must stand up to such backwardness, the council must adopt a decision on gender-based violence as a crime under article 83 and together we must put an end to violence against women.
madam president, i want to ask you honestly and without emotion why would anyone want to impose the istanbul convention on the slovak republic? after all, the jurisdiction of the slovak republic provides for more rigorous and precise protection of women's rights against domestic violence. and i know what i'm talking about. but there's another problem, besides physical violence, there's also psychological violence. so i ask: is she a woman, a pensioner, a slovak, a citizen of the european union? it is. does slovakia belong to the european union? it does. does the european union have free borders with schengen? well, he does. how is it possible that our slovak women, pensioners who are barely earning a living, have to go to work as maids, to nurse in germany, to nurse in austria, to worry. but i have never seen a swedish, french or italian woman in slovakia to look after our pensioners, to take care of them. this is the problem in slovakia. this is a problem for women in slovakia. this is discrimination. come, ladies of western europe, to slovakia, to orava, to gemer, to spiš, and see how women live there. come to babysit, come to our hotels and so on. or are you an übermensch, you can't? and here you want to force slovakia some istanbul... (the chairman interrupts the speaker) ... we in slovakia respect women. we don't need that... (the chairman interrupts the speaker)... we don't have a lost ideology.
president, every eight days a woman or girl in the netherlands is murdered by her partner or ex-partner. every eight days. a few years ago, this was every ten days. so the problem has worsened. but that's not what this debate is about. this debate is about the accession of the eu to the istanbul convention, not about improving the protection of women in the eu. and that's what it should be about. the convention seems to be an instrument to draw attention to the insecurity of women. that's good, because it's a serious problem. but is the instrument also the solution? i doubt that. the figures show that women's insecurity is increasing, and we need to address that. looking in the direction we want to go: zero female murders in the eu. - what? everyone in the eu has a responsibility, especially the heads of government of the member states. i call on them to adopt active policies to ensure the safety of women. i hope from the bottom of my heart - and i am actually just asking - that in a few years we will be able to say that women in the eu are safe. because that's what this is about.
madam speaker, today is valentine's day, but for many women, a relationship is not a romance, but a struggle for life and physical and mental health. in recent months, women in slovakia have lost their lives due to partner relationships and violence in krompachy, plevník, drienov, zákamenné, veľká biela. a 66-year-old man in galante drowned his wife, three years his junior, just one day after he finished a three-year probation for abusing her. ladies and gentlemen, violence against women affects all of us, women and men alike. i am glad that in slovakia we are systematically addressing the financing of safe homes for women, building intervention centres that cooperate with the police and offer comprehensive assistance. but we must do more. we need the istanbul convention because it acts preventively against prejudice, to make women less vulnerable. refusal to ratify is linked to intimidation and disinformation campaigns. wherever the convention is in force, women are better protected. in slovakia, women deserve better protection as well. and thanks to the european convention on preventing violence against women.
the debate is over. the vote will take place on wednesday 15 february 2023. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. in the european union, one in three women has experienced physical and/or sexual violence and more than half (55 per cent) of women in the eu have experienced at least one sexual harassment since the age of 15. this shows that women and girls are not effectively protected from violence and that this problem remains a very painful one in our society, with violence against women being regulated in very different ways in the member states. we need a comprehensive and coordinated approach to violence against women, which is why the istanbul convention is a very important international instrument to address the deep-rooted problems of violence against women. it is a great pity that not all eu member states have ratified this international convention and such a delay is unconscionable and unacceptable. we need action at eu level, and i therefore welcome the clarification of the court of justice of the european union on the possibility of the eu acceding to this convention and i strongly urge the council to take urgent action to ensure that the eu accedes to this convention as soon as possible. ladies and gentlemen, the istanbul convention is by far the most effective, powerful and comprehensive instrument for combating and preventing the various forms of violence against women and domestic violence in europe and beyond, and we must therefore take the initiative to join this convention and implement its recommendations in order to better protect our women and girls from violence.
in writing. the eu must ratify the istanbul agreement without delay. this first legally binding international convention against violence against women is an extremely important international text. the eu as an international institution should ratify the istanbul agreement as a matter of urgency. the union signed the agreement in 2017, but no decision on ratification has been taken by the member states. this is sad, because ratification and respect for the istanbul convention would send a strong and necessary message of commitment to the elimination of violence against women. many eu countries, including my own country, finland, are still dangerous places for women to live. the incidence of violence against women is high. the istanbul agreement is not only symbolically important. it provides a broad definition of violence against women, defines violence against women as structural discrimination against women and commits to long-term, coordinated and planned action to combat violence against women and to promote gender equality in different sectors of society. i think that the definition of the treaty should be the basis for all legislation and its interpretation. the opinion of the court of justice of the eu, according to which the council of the eu, i.e. the member states, can proceed with the ratification of the istanbul convention in the european union without any legal obstacles, should be transposed at the latest to finally ratify the istanbul convention, and as soon as possible. the eu is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is a fundamental principle of the treaty. every eu country should be committed to eliminating violence against women.
the next item is the debate on the following items: oral question to the council on the eu priorities for the 67th session of the un commission on the status of women, by robert biedroń, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality (o-000004/2023 b9-0011/2023) the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union and to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the union. the following table is added:
madam president, the interest rate hike is finally paying off in the form of falling annual inflation. high inflation is a serious economic problem, as well as a social problem, destroying the purchasing power of money, destroying savings, increasing uncertainty, making planning impossible, discouraging investment. reducing high inflation to a long-term low must therefore remain the top priority. secondary targets should be largely sidelined for now because the primary target is still at risk. although not everyone recognises that inflation in the euro area has primarily monetary causes, it is generally accepted that inflation must be addressed primarily by monetary means, including rising interest rates. as we are still far from the inflation target, i consider it important that the european central bank maintains its current restrictive monetary policy stance.
madam president, the shift from fossil fuels to low-carbon technologies is increasing demand for extraction of non-traditional raw materials. the commission notes that the use of the land for the extraction of the raw materials is not a legitimate economic activity. but the same is true of fossil fuel extraction. the negative consequences of extraction need to be addressed in both cases. however, the two cases differ fundamentally in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. we don't always have to replace a bad solution with a perfect one. we just have to find solutions that are better than what we have now. one of these could be to improve the set-up of the system so that the local community has a greater share of the revenue from the fees for the extracted raw material.
madam president, strategic minerals are a geopolitical tool and will soon be more important than gas or oil. in europe, we need to reduce our dependence on imports of key raw materials from third countries, as the united states or japan have already done for some time. europe must strengthen its autonomy and resilience, and if it wants to become a world leader in green technologies, it must also be a leader in their production. otherwise, sooner or later, we will learn a lesson similar to the one we learned in the case of dependence on russian gas imports. only this time, a much tougher competitor will teach a lesson, namely, china, which today has up to 80 percent of the solar panel market. we need to identify the most strategically important raw materials, boost investment and coordinate supply and demand in the member states in line with the highest environmental standards, restore sustainable extraction where possible, shorten permitting processes and mobilise public and private investment, including by facilitating access to european funding.
madam president, the shortage of fertilizer and its high price is closely linked to the russian aggression in ukraine and the cutting off of traditional gas supplies. we've managed the gas shortage, cutting off from russia and diversifying suppliers, but at the same time, we've been targeting savings and putting alternatives on the table. we need to do the same with fertilisers, but i can't help feeling that we're only in the first phase of a solution. we diversify our suppliers and eventually produce more just to keep the farming in the old ways. we're not thinking much about savings, and alternative approaches are met with resistance from the agricultural establishment. but this crisis is an opportunity. opportunities for alternative practices, for a rigorous approach to the land and its life, for the promotion of natural nutrient cycles, for organic alternatives, for nature-friendly practices, for organic farming or for regenerative tillage, where artificial fertilisers are not needed to ensure quality production. all of these procedures are embedded in our farm to fork strategy. what we need to improve the situation is a consistent implementation in practice.
in writing. if the directive is indeed successfully implemented and the energy efficiency of buildings is substantially improved, this will mean less emissions of harmful substances into the air in the future, substantial energy savings and, in the years to come, a building boom and new opportunities for the business sector. however, this measure has major shortcomings in terms of procurement costs and access to financing for new technologies, in particular by citizens and owners of family homes. the downside for countries like slovakia with huge gasification is the effort to limit the use of gas, even condensing boilers and bet everything on one green card. this process of renovating buildings and introducing green technologies such as air-conditioning pumps or solar panels can only be successfully implemented if the new government prioritises setting up a mechanism to make the best use of available european money in this area. in any event, the costs involved cannot be borne entirely by the public.
in writing. the proposal does not provide a good rationale for introducing energy efficiency rules for almost all buildings. we should focus on those renovations that provide the greatest energy savings at the lowest cost. because we don't have an infinite amount of money. according to the economist (what is the cheapest way to cut carbon?, 2021), it is also not effective to introduce energy efficiency rules for all buildings. for some, the cost of removing co2 emissions is seven times higher than removing co2 emissions through the eu emissions trading system. for that reason, i shall vote against.
i'm not going to tell you. since the covid-19 pandemic, misinformation, misinformation and lies have started to affect our lives in a significant way. later, many suffered health problems, and some sadly are no longer with us. in my country, too, many were able to believe that doctors administered a microchip in a vial of clear fluid containing a vaccine. but the people who have been led to believe these delusions are not to blame. the institutions, which have not responded to the suggestions and questions, bear a large part of the blame. when people are not informed, they are forced to believe what they read on the internet or what they hear from their friends. the less information we provide to the public, the greater the opportunity for the missile spread of conspiracy and delusion. sadly, the effects of this are still felt today. many citizens believe hoax regarding the war in ukraine. dear friends, i am pleased that the ombudsman is drawing attention to the wrongdoing that is causing people to lose faith in the european institutions. let me mention some of them in his report. it was really a mistake that the european medicines agency didn't want to give people information about the composition of vaccines. i also see the error in the lack of information or complaint handling of the border agency and the frontex border guard. this lack of information also gave conspirators considerable leeway to spread misinformation about migration. the current war is full of conspiracies, lies that divide society and increase tension between people. the only thing that can save us is communication, the provision of information and the spreading of the truth. i hope that this report will contribute to better work and transparency in all the european institutions.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. these are three important legislative projects for climate protection, and i thank everyone who has contributed to the fact that we now have such good compromises here, within the epp, of course, above all jessica polfjärd, norbert lins and cristian bușoi. i would like to say just two sentences on the subject. first of all, we talk about effort sharing in english. in german, mr vice-president, it is still translated as 'load sharing'. we were actually further along. we said it was about climate action. climate change is not only a burden, but also a great advantage. perhaps when translating the final version, one can once again make sure that effort is not actually loaded with... (interruption of the debate) yeah, but maybe we can find a good word for climate action in the other languages. secondly, i would like to stress once again what mr norbert lins said on the subject of sustainable forestry. a forest that is managed sequesters more co2, and we also create wood as a renewable resource. that is why we should support forestry workers in sustainable forestry. and if we have adopted it tomorrow, then the commission will continue its work. i would have liked to have seen the legislative act on a climate-neutral economy presented together with fit for 55 on thursday. because we see now that many companies that are starting out have bureaucratic hurdles. we need to move faster, and the ira is just the last push. we should have done this before. that is why i am asking for an ambitious proposal for thursday. a colleague put it this way: the response to the ira should not be europe first, but europe almost. and that is what we expect from the commission.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr timmermans, tomorrow the european parliament will adopt several key pieces of the legislative package objective 55, our roadmap for decarbonisation. among them we will adopt the effort sharing regulation, a key piece, as we have said, because it will regulate 60% of greenhouse gases and will have an impact on european transport, buildings or agriculture. it also maintains the european commission's target of reducing emissions by 40% in all these areas covered by the effort sharing regulation by 2030. why is this regulation we pass tomorrow important? first, because the impact of climate change is a reality. we only need to look at the very unusual temperatures we have had this week throughout europe, the extreme phenomena that are repeated or the droughts, which already affect large parts of the european territory. this reality is just a call for early action and rapid implementation of the decarbonisation process and the entire mitigation policy. to this end, the effort-sharing regulation includes an ambitious linear trajectory and, moreover, limits the flexibilities of the member states, because we want strict regulation. secondly, what we adopt tomorrow is very important because the world today is in a huge race to develop green technologies, and today's efforts are europe's economic competitiveness of tomorrow. that is why we must call on all sectors to make such efforts, because they will ensure a strong and prosperous economy in the future. thirdly, it allows us to take steps forward towards a just transition, with important clauses that incorporate a social dimension alongside the climate dimension. fourthly and lastly, why is what we pass tomorrow important? because, to be honest, in recent weeks we have heard voices ready to break the consensus that had been built around the european green deal over the past few years in europe - very worrying voices. much of what we are approving tomorrow we are approving with great agreement thanks to the good work of parliament, of the rapporteur jessica polfjärd, as well as the work done by the council, the commission, vice-president timmermans; they are proof that it is possible to reach the agreements necessary to make progress in decarbonisation and that jeopardising the consensus on the european green deal puts at stake not only the future of the continent, but also the economy and competitiveness of europe and its future.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, i have to ask for forgiveness of those in charge of translation, because i’m going to start with some sentences in swedish because of jessica. tack ska du ha, jessica, för att du skötte det här ärendet. det var inte alltid lätt. förhandlingarna i rådet var inte heller lätta, men du lyckades ändå nå ett framgångsrikt resultat. it’s very important that climate action is looked at in the long term with the 2050 climate neutrality target in mind. the effort sharing regulation is key to deliver on co2 reductions. under the agreement, eu countries will have to cut emissions by 40% compared to 2005 levels in sectors such as buildings, road transport, agriculture and waste, which are currently not regulated under the bloc’s carbon market, the eu emissions trading scheme. together, these sectors are responsible for 60% of the eu’s greenhouse gas emissions. renew europe is pleased that the 2030 targets and trajectories are ambitious enough to reduce co2 emissions even if we see mounting challenges with the percentage-based reductions. the climate fund will, with the council, deliver the climate and therefore my group will support the important part of the fit for 55 package. at the very end, a comment which mr liese already said. effort sharing sounds very fine. in swedish, fördelning av bördan. that means distribution of the burden. therefore, in nordic countries, we sometimes feel a little more burden.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i would like to thank the president-in-office. i thank the rapporteur and commissioner timmermans. we have achieved a fairly good result and we are particularly pleased that we have tightened up the commission's proposals in several important areas. the most important thing is that the reduction path towards the 2030 targets has been stepped up, and so that we have closed this loophole that the commission had found to link to land use, so that it has disappeared, and that we have tightened the possibilities of the countries or limited the possibilities of the countries to postpone the reduction of greenhouse gases. it is no secret, however, that we greens had hoped for more courage and more ambition. the commission has already made a number of proposals. reductions are hard and painful. but the alternative is much more painful, and the bill we send to the nursery will be much greater if we don't act now and act quickly. but i am perhaps particularly disappointed that we have met so little goodwill to make the reduction road even shorter. there's a difference between having a goal and achieving it by making a bow like this, or making a bow like this. and we would also very much like to see more of these loopholes reduced. the implementation is now the issue, and here too we have fortunately ensured greater transparency in our efforts. and we expect the 27 governments to do everything possible to meet the new reduction requirements, because you can see that it is fathers and mothers or grandparents like me who are doing this work.
i'm not going to tell you. a huge opportunity for slovakia, for europe, for our future. that is the simplest way to describe the european climate package. the climate crisis is a threat to our survival. fit for 55 is a chance to improve our future. not only help the climate, but also help create new jobs. help lower our energy bills, help protect our freedom. freedom from importing fossil fuels, but also freedom for each and every one of us to be able to generate energy at home. starting the development of a green economy. but also a wonderful opportunity to finally face the challenges of nature. not to destroy it. because we need nature to save the climate. it's the best way to capture carbon from the atmosphere. let's use it. it will be good for our forests, but also for our farmers and farmers. but it doesn't just fall out of the sky. european legislation is not enough. it will be up to european governments to seize this opportunity for their citizens and businesses. i mean, even the slovak one. and here's where i worry, as the failure of the home repair program shows. it will therefore be important for citizens, but also for us in the european parliament, to help seize the opportunity that climate protection presents. (speaker agrees to respond to speech after blue card is raised)
blue-card reply. – this is a big opportunity. we have a lot of money in repowereu, in the rrf, in the cohesion funds. this is about using the opportunity or threatening that this is going to destroy us. we can choose – poland can choose, slovakia can choose, every country can choose. the question is, which side are you on? are you going to keep on threatening or are you going to look at this as an opportunity for poland as well?
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. ladies and gentlemen, society has become radicalised in recent years. it's not just radical comments on facebook. unfortunately, there are also many politicians who call citizens of a different opinion cattle, suckers or desolate, shouting: "let's go to them!" and think they are democrats. no politician has the right to insult citizens for having different opinions. in my country, slovakia, there are many people who have different opinions regarding the war in ukraine. they're questioning whether he's helping ukraine or donating weapons. they can't imagine life without russian gas. i don't like these views, but at the same time, i know that evil cannot be eradicated by another evil. in a time when society is divided, we need to communicate more, we need to find a way to come together. we need to replace the attacks and insults with communication. so let me challenge all politicians who consider themselves democrats: stop cursing people and find a way to them. because if the democrats can't find their way to people of a different opinion, then the extremists, the populists and the radicals will find their way to them.
for the renew group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. we are facing many crises and we are clearly failing to build a social europe in which no one can be left behind. ninety-five and a half million europeans face social exclusion and poverty. one of the biggest vulnerable groups is women, single-parent households, people with disabilities or people from marginalised groups. thirty to fifty per cent of these people receive no or insufficient support, despite the fact that all member states have a minimum income scheme in place. the minimum income must be available to all people who need such help, who find themselves in need, without any official obstacles. the state is only as strong as the weakest of its members, and the european union is only as strong as the member states, and not just the people who live in the member states. i therefore believe that the european union must take a leading role in the fight against social exclusion. at the same time, however, it must respect the competences of the member states.
member of the commission. – i was checking the facts, and on top of the nuclear fuel, there is also 25% of the eu’s nuclear front—end services, conversion and enrichment, that is dependent on russian supply. the discussion of nuclear in our future energy mix has become more intense in the past few months, and my responsibility is to provide technology-neutral solutions. member states who have opted for nuclear power plants can do so, of course keeping in mind the highest safety standards. my services – dg ener units – will provide them with all the necessary assistance. of course, we have to be ready since not only last summer, but the summer of 2023 might bring us extreme weather conditions. there are some predictions that we will face extreme drought this summer again. this just reminds us of the same challenges that we had last year: challenges with hydropower, very low hydro capacity and, on top of that, the possible impact to coal-fired power plants or nuclear. with our electricity sector and with our answer, we are mapping the summer challenges. this is regular work that we do, and very soon there will also be a risk assessment of what might await us in the summer this year.
mr president, commissioner, let us be a little more specific. the international energy agency has published a study that we will have a huge problem this summer and at the latest in the autumn to replenish the gas reserves in europe, unlike last year, where we still did it through russian natural gas and through liquefied natural gas (lng). the energy agency has made specific proposals on this. i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we have heard in the proposals that we need more energy infrastructure a deepening ; but we have seen that there is not a single transnational infrastructure in the resilience fund of the big eu programme. the second issue is that we have bought lng on the market, which china did not consume last year, but is expected to consume this year. and third, we have no access to russian natural gas. the question is, in other words, how we are going to replenish the european storage capacity over the summer to autumn period. one last question: you referred to energy efficiency. member states have not agreed to the binding energy efficiency target. so we won't have the subject for the summer.
member of the commission. – indeed, last year when russia decided to cut off their supplies, we faced some challenges because instead of using legacy pipelines and that connected eastern europe and germany via pipeline with russian gas fields, we had to find very fast alternative routes. but we were prepared for that. actually, the first warning that russia can manipulate our energy markets was obvious already in 2009, and since then, the european union has financed cross-border energy infrastructure that allowed us to diversify away from russian gas fields. it was not a very last moment effort that last year we were able to launch pipeline connection between poland and norway, the so-called baltic pipe, which was financed significantly from eu funds. another pipeline interconnection between greece and bulgaria helped to deliver azeri gas to bulgaria, which was first of the countries who lost russian long-term contracts. and on top of that, we were relatively successful by building new lng infrastructure. in 2022, our import capacity rose by 25 billion m³. and we do expect some 50 billion m³ capacity more coming to them, coming online this and next year. and that allows us to maximise the possibility to replace russian gas with other trusted gas producers’ supply. i was mentioning earlier that that tomorrow you can hear from us another promising message on the joint gas purchase that also allows our companies, but not only eu companies, but also companies from ukraine, moldova and serbia to pool together the demand and negotiate better prices. so this is ongoing work. we have mapped some of the missing links, but overall we will now prioritise cross-border electricity cables because we have to electrify. this is the way forward.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my question is very close to the subject because it is the same question. the energy agency has certified a gap of 57 trillion cubic meters. we closed that last year with russian natural gas and lng. apparently, lng has been available on the market because china has not been buying that gas on that scale because of the covid measures. the chinese have declared that they will massively increase their purchases this year; russian gas will not be available. where are we gonna get the gas?
member of the commission. – the international energy agency has been a great help, and we have used their analytics to design our policy proposals. one of their new headline proposals is to prioritise energy savings because it was only 2021 when we received 155 billion m³ russian gas. they cut it down significantly. last year we were successful in replacing it with lng, but also norway and azerbaijan scaled up their production and shipped it via pipelines. now the remaining 60 will be very challenging to replace. keeping in mind that russia does not have alternative pipeline connections, the gas that they are not selling to europe, they cannot sell to anybody else. that creates deficit in global markets. so, we cannot opt for a solution that we buy all the available lng because that leaves third countries in a very difficult position where they have to replace gas with coal, and this is damaging. we will prioritise renewables. where we can replace gas with renewables, we will do so. smart solutions and all the solutions that help us to balance or to limit the peak hours, for example, in our electricity market, help us with almost no costs to cut gas consumption. then, of course, renewables in the gas sector. you can expect that we will come out with a strategy to promote green gases, biomethane, because this is something that can also replace partially natural gas. this is also a great opportunity for our regions, but also for municipalities, who too have a responsibility to clean their wastewater, to cover some of their consumption, for example in public transport, with home-grown renewables, being it biomethane or, in the coming years, hydrogen.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. yes, in the year since the war in ukraine began, the energy map of europe has been completely rewritten. it is certainly positive that europe has been looking for and to some extent succeeded in finding alternative gas suppliers. and here i want to ask, and i want to continue the logic of the previous question, because we know that this winter has been kind to us, but this winter may not be. and also the lng, as far as china is concerned, it's definitely going to be more present in that market, and you can say that those tanks that are still filled to about 55 percent today, they may not be able to be filled to 90 percent by november. what are your arguments? any other things you've mentioned that you can do?
member of the commission. – i do believe that right now, in the middle of march 2023, we are less vulnerable than we were a year ago. and i have to thank also parliament, because there were some initial steps that allowed us to end this heating season with a relatively comfortable stage. one of those measures was storage obligation. right now, our underground gas storage is 56% full. this is double the volume that it was last year, and this makes it easier to refill by november. we have also set up the joint gas purchase platform. my colleague, vice-president maroš šefčovič, is in constant contact with private companies all across europe who have indicated their interest to participate in this in this platform. and we have pooled together the demand. the commission, in cooperation with a service provider is working on the demand aggregation and a first tender for gas purchase will hopefully be launched very soon. that allows companies all across europe, despite their geographical circumstances, to benefit from the eu negotiation power. and on top of that, we also witnessed last year that member states are actually able to cut their gas consumption. we agreed that member states voluntarily should introduce measures that allow them to cut consumption by 15%. in real life, they did more. they cut gas consumption by 19%. and now i will request member states to prolong this arrangement because, as many experts are very clearly indicating, this winter might be even more challenging because there was some gas from russia that we received last year that might disappear. and on top of that, last year, the weather was very mild. nobody gives us guarantees that this will be repeated this winter.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i was wondering if you would mention, in addition to these savings in gas consumption and, of course, in future production of biomethane and hydrogen, the possibility of resuming the production of our own gas in our own district. in europe we have the largest reserves, of course in the netherlands, but we also have, for example, in slovakia, where gas was also mined. do you also consider renewal and support, if appropriate, as a matter of course under strict environmental conditions, as also one of the options to fill this existing gap in the missing gas volumes?
member of the commission. – there are some projects in the pipeline where member states or companies in some member states are exploring the possible extraction projects. on the other hand, there are some environmental considerations that have closed existing gas production sites in europe. of course, there will be demand for natural gas in the years to come, but step by step, we will reduce our gas consumption and replace it with renewables. this is our priority. and my priority is also to allow member states to benefit from the green transition, not only on the power generation side, but also in the hydrogen market and on the biomethane side. last year we created a biomethane industrial alliance, so i hope that very soon we will see an increase of this production also.
member of the commission. – this is very true that last year we very successful to attract additional lng deliveries to europe. the majority of the lng shipments originated from the united states. i do believe that we have created a trusted partnership so that we will not lose these shipments. but, if china will add their growing demand to the global markets, then that means that the lng market, as such a global market, will be very heavily contested. price formation is not only dependent on our activities. so this is behind this warning. already in autumn 2021, we started a very active global outreach to the gas producers whom we regarded as trusted gas producers. we have signed several mous and there are some promising projects. for example, egypt and israel are cooperating to ship israeli gas via liquefaction facilities in egypt to europe. there are some producers, like norway and azerbaijan, who did their utmost to scale up their production and took advantage of the pipeline connection that connects our two markets. so all these global outreach procedures we have done and despite that, we still believe that to calm down the global markets, we have to prioritise also energy savings because there will not be enough new capacities coming to the market this year to replace the lost russian volumes. we have to keep in mind that if russia is not able to sell this gas to anybody, then it means that they are venting or flaring this gas in their oil fields when it is a side product, and that also causes climate warming. so this is also not only manipulation of our energy markets, but a very negative decision to create global warming, and as such, it impacts a wider region, not only europe.
member of the commission. – methane is a very potent greenhouse gas and we have to lead by example. well, there are some activities that in the energy sector that actually do not demand additional investments, it is just the issue of awareness. beyond the activities here in europe, we are also reaching out to the gas-producing countries who still emit a lot of methane. and we are planning to pilot some projects that we call ‘you capture, we buy’, because in the energy sector a large share of methane could be tackled with almost no cost. or we can we can finance these investments. and, by doing so, also bring to the market additional volumes that are, in this contested situation, very much needed.
mr president, commissioner, the energy crisis we are experiencing has left millions of households and small businesses in a very difficult situation, practically on their knees, unable to pay their energy bills. and while this is happening, the energy companies have been hitting the jackpot, with absolutely exceptional profits. the commission has put forward a number of measures, but all of them are short-term and none of them are structural, and these measures do not touch on the substance of the matter. so my question is this: given the proposal you have just put forward, which does not touch the pricing system and remains marginal, what measure or measures do you hope to take to protect households and small businesses in the coming winter, rather than continue to give the energy companies the jackpot?
member of the commission. – so what is the commission doing? first of all, as you very correctly mentioned we have introduced emergency measures that are still in place, like the inframarginal revenue cap, which allows governments to channel revenues to consumers to reduce bills. second, we need to continue cost diversification efforts. that allows us to calm down the price signals that are coming from the gas market. we will also introduce the joint cash purchase platform that allows our companies to benefit from our negotiation power. and of course, if we will manage to bring down the gas prices, it also has a direct impact to our electricity prices. right now, gas prices are below 50, and this is a lower price than we saw at any moment last year. and third, we need to ensure that industry and smes are less exposed to the volatility and high prices of the short-term electricity market. and this is exactly the reason why we proposed the revision of the electricity-market design. there are measures that facilitate access to long-term instruments, like power purchase agreements or contracts for difference, for a new investment in power generation. and this will help customers benefit more directly from the lower cost of renewable generation. so if we will have more hours where our consumption is covered by renewables, that also means that prices for our industry and consumers will be significantly lower than in these hours when we are dependent on gas-fired power plants.
mr president, commissioner, the truth is that the commission proposal does not contain any changes, as i said, to the pricing system. the marginalist system is maintained. and so something happened, because last july the president of the european commission, ursula von der leyen, came here to this house, to this parliament, to say that the marginalist market was not a market adapted to combat rising energy prices and therefore had to be changed. between july and now, they've changed their minds. what changed your mind? keeping the corporate profits?
member of the commission. – electricity market reform will not change the mechanics of price formation on the short-term markets because this formation guarantees that our consumption is covered by supply at every single moment. but this doesn’t mean that it will not achieve a decoupling of electricity prices from gas prices, because making the final prices paid by consumers more independent from short-term prices is the solution that delivers more affordable and more predictable prices for our final retail consumers. this is achieved by bringing more renewables and flexibility into the market to displace also fossil fuels and by changing the way new investments in inframarginal generation are remunerated. on top of that, we have few but effective provisions to reduce the weight of gas on electricity prices again by accelerating the green transition, but also by settling the long-term ppas. that gives us access to pre-agreed pricing schemes for relatively long periods.
in my view, in order to have energy security, we have to reduce our energy dependence on russia and also reduce the financing of the offensive war. i don’t think we succeeded in 2022. for instance, in my country, greece, we had to spend eur 9 billion to import russian oil and russian natural gas in 2022, whereas in 2021 we spent eur 5 billion. we increased the financing of the war by eur 4 billion due to the price increases in the international markets. my question is: how much money did we offer in 2022 to putin and his offensive war in order to cover our energy needs? and is there a plan to reduce? are there any targets for 2023 so that he will get less money from us?
member of the commission. – we were last year successful in negotiating ten packages of sanctions against russia. and several of these sanctions also covered the energy sector. you were very correct when you mentioned that in 2022, our companies still bought russian coal or oil, but sanctions came into force for crude oil in the end of 2022, in december. and now, with limited exemptions, they are also covering refined products. so in several commodities, we do not offer russia a market anymore. and on top of that, with our g7 partners, we have introduced a price cap for oil products so that russia’s revenues will not be as high as if they would have been able to trade their oil products with world crude oil global market prices. now on gas: we have not put in place sanctions. but, there are very few member states who are still receiving some natural gas from russia. on top of that, there are several companies who are buying russian lng and there is no need for that, because these are companies from the geographical regions where, historically, russian gas did not play a significant part in the gas market. and this is the sector where really we should call for solidarity and request our companies, without implementing any sanctions, to not prolong their existing contracts to stop buying russian lng.
member of the commission. – i agree that we have to be ambitious, and i agree that renewables are our home-grown energy source that allows us, step by step, to stabilise the energy prices. you compared our gas prices with the united states; the united states is currently an lng-exporting country. we are importers, so we are competing with other lng markets globally, such as the asian market, which is even bigger than ours. in this regard, our prices are comparable. so how we can address this issue and keep our ambition level high enough? there are some steps that are very urgent. we have to conclude the trade trilogue and keep the high ambition that the commission proposed under the fit for 55 package. secondly, we need to use all the potential, in particular on biomethane and heat pumps. as i was mentioning earlier, i plan to launch, on top of all the measures we presented last year, a practical initiative to promote biomethane. you can also expect from our side that we will present an action plan on heat pumps, because there are some wonderful examples from some individual member states where heat pumps very quickly replaced a significant share of gas consumption in domestic heating. thirdly, we have to accelerate large-scale offshore projects. it is wonderful that each of us would like to install solar rooftops, but we also need offshore wind. this year we are hosting at least two big summits in ostend and in lithuania, but we have three more sea basins. there is also potential for floating offshore, and we should also grasp this situation.
member of the commission. – i do agree. i see developments all across europe. basically we will see the outcome in the upgraded national energy and climate plans because member states already implement what is not agreed yet. but i hope that member states, by renewing their national energy climate plans, are opting for the higher end of ambition. now, you mentioned that the electricity market design will take a couple more years before it will be implemented, but it was our clear decision that we will opt for ordinary legislation. last year was a year when we were forced to use emergency proposals. but i made a clear case and i also promised to your president, roberta metsola, that electricity market design will be necessary for years to come. it is necessary tool to give certainty for investors. so we cannot tackle it as an emergency proposal. in this package, partially, some of the solutions are in regulations, others in directives. that means that partially we can we can skip the lengthy implementation procedure. but where i need parliament’s help is, of course, by accelerating also your procedures, because what we see with the fit for 55 package is that it has taken almost two years already to finalise the discussions and get to the legislation process. we do not have that time, but sometime it will be necessary for member states to implement. on top of that there are financing tools for member states to support renewable investments. there are available funds to strengthen the grids, and there is public acceptance right now also to grant some shorter and simplified permitting for renewable installations, because unless we do so, there is no alternative to gas, no green alternative. i am very grateful that our ngos do support this approach.
now, it’s not only about the future legislation. let’s remember the clean energy for all europeans package back from 2019. now, there were important elements like the energy communities, like prosumers. and sadly, what we still see is a number of the member states, including my own, slovakia, not having implemented it properly. now, i appreciate that you are taking them to court, but what other measures? because we do not need the court cases, we need reality on the ground changes. we need liberalisation. we need opening up of the market to prosumers and end of the defence of the monopolies and oligopolies. what measures do you plan to take? because this could be the decisive year for the people to really take the energy freedom into their hands. so what measures do you plan beyond taking some of the member states to court?
mr president, commissioner, 15 years after an attempted coup, georgia still faces serious political security and economic interferences from the kremlin. i welcome the withdrawal of the recent kremlin-inspired law on foreign agents and the bravery of the georgian people protesting against it. in parallel, during the last plenary session, this parliament adopted with a large majority a resolution calling for the release of former georgian president saakashvili and his immediate transport abroad for specialist treatment. i welcome that this resolution, together with the calls from the polish government, have borne fruit and that polish doctors will soon be able to examine the former georgian president’s health. the eu and its member states should keep supporting democratic aspirations of the georgian people and maintain the high dynamic of the eu enlargement process.
mr president, the release of former president saakashvili from prison, given his fragile health, should become a prerequisite for developing our relations with georgia. i wonder why the president of georgia, ms salome zourabichvili, who is also a french citizen that used to work as a diplomat in france, and the country’s powerbroker, pro-russian oligarch ivanishvili, also a french citizen who has been decorated by france, refused to assist in freeing saakashvili. there cannot be a european path for georgia with saakashvili, who claims that he was poisoned by russian secret agents slowly dying in prison. georgia’s government stands on the way of the country’s european ambitions, supported by the vast majority of the people.
mr president, commissioner, ironically speaking, i must say, i admire mick wallace because he again demonstrated that he will sure as hell always position himself on the side of reactionaries, authoritarians and oppressors. but the georgian citizens have opted for another choice because they know that the so-called georgian dream has turned into a georgian nightmare. the georgian government is paying lip service at best to european values and the european path. we should not let georgian citizens alone in their fight for the european perspective. that is why we should consider measures beyond what’s been on the table. will we continue unabated with the development cooperation without conditionality? will we refuse to consider sanctions? we shouldn’t. and we should fight for the freedom of saakashvili.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, almost 20 years ago the georgians took to the streets in their peaceful revolution and inspired colour revolutions in other countries. but some 15 years ago, russia attacked georgia and today moscow illegally occupies 20% of georgian territory. the people of georgia are tough fighters for freedom and democracy. they have spoken repeatedly in elections, in the streets, about their democratic and european ambitions. as we stand by them today, it is high time that the leaders of georgia also stand by their own people. georgia applied for eu membership just 10 days after russia’s brutal invasion of ukraine. georgians know all too well what the russian attack and russian propaganda and disinformation look like. we support all brave people of georgia who are ready to fight for europe and against the russian meddling. the people of georgia have proved worthy of eu candidate status years ago. it is long overdue that their leaders follow suit.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, dear commissioner, several times already we have strongly condemned large-scale military aggression by azerbaijan against armenian people. now we have to urge both sides of the conflict, especially azerbaijani authorities, to respect the principle of territorial integrity and to refrain from any hostile rhetoric. we call on both sides to proceed without any further delay with the negotiation on a peace treaty towards reaching long and lasting, sustainable peace. the ongoing blockade of lachin corridors since last december is complicated, but it’s more than complicating the lives of 100 000 people in the region. the most recent deadly incident, ten days ago, contributed to further escalation and requires proper investigation. immediate action from azerbaijani authorities is needed to remove any obstacles in freedom of movement along the corridor. i hope that the recent deployment of a new eu mission to armenia with a stronger mandate will contribute to peace and stability in the region. i fully understand armenia’s challenging geopolitical situation, but many challenges stand in front of the courageous armenian people in the upcoming years, especially in terms of reforms. i hope that it will be the eu and not turkey or russia or iran who will play a more active role in the region in the upcoming years, and that we can continue with the deepening of a constructive cooperation.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: many of you here speak of our unending support for ukraine. the words are that the european union will support ukraine for as long and as much as it takes. but i want to ask you all, how far are you willing to go? i was stopped by a man in slovakia recently, a man who asked me if he and his family should prepare for war. is it true that european countries will start sending our men to president zelensky if there is no one to fight in ukraine? i'm asking you what i'm supposed to say to this guy and his family. people are scared. people are really afraid that this war from ukraine will spread all the way here to europe, that it will spread all the way home. and these people don't want war. only politicians want this war. that is why i call on all of you to assure the people that the european union will never allow european soldiers to be sent into the conflict in ukraine.
mr president, dear colleagues, the green transition will massively impact europe’s labour markets and some regions will be exposed to job losses, and new job opportunities will arise in the other regions. smaller member states cannot stand alone in this and we need more europe to come up with alternative solutions for those that will be affected the most. green transition is not only about high-skilled jobs. on the contrary, it will generate demand for low- and medium-skilled employees in the renewable energy and energy efficiency sectors, with 75% of jobs for workers and technicians in 2050. the outcome depends on how effectively europe will introduce skill policies and here an anticipatory-based approach will be crucial. to succeed, we need adequate financial resources, massive investments into upscaling and rescaling of workers, creation of smes, friendly environment and removing of still-existing administrative obstacles will be the key elements of success. the workers should not pay the cost of transformation. to achieve more resilient and social europe, we need to act now and to transform statements and promises into actions.
mr president, just before you started chairing, the german mep christine anderson from the id group, she talked about ‘regenbogen mafia’, ‘rainbow mafia’. and let me call let me recall the definition of ‘mafia’. mafia stands for an organised international body of criminals. and i think that people who defend the rights of rainbow families, people who defend lgbti rights, they are not criminals. they are just human rights defenders, they defend fundamental rights. and i think that kind of talk is totally inappropriate for this parliament. and it equals to me to hate speech. and hate speech has no place in this house.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, as i expressed earlier, there is no european union legislation on international adoptions, and the matter is regulated by the 1993 hague convention, which is widely ratified and notably by all eu member states. the commission remains committed to put children at the heart of all its policies. this is also what drives the proposal which we presented last year on the cross-border recognition of parenthood.
the debate is over. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on the following items: oral question to the council on combating discrimination in the eu long-awaited horizontal anti-discrimination directive tabled by juan fernando lópez aguilar on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-000010/2023 b9-0013/23) the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union and to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the eu.
mr president, the issue of discrimination concerns many in europe. i will fight again today for the roma children. despite the fact that we have good legislation and even money that we send to the member states, the education systems in some member states produce tens of thousands of children from roma families every year without sufficient qualifications, without being prepared for the labour market. on the one hand, we know where the shoe is pushing us. after all, the european commission has even launched infringement proceedings against discrimination in the education of roma children in several countries. on the other hand, the situation is unchanged. segregation of roma children, discrimination in schools, placing children in mental retardation classes, deliberate segregation from other children, all of this continues. these are fatal consequences at both european and national levels, despite anti-discrimination legislation and millions of european dollars. yet, we cannot simply give roma children a future. practice shows us that it is not enough to have legislation. it's not even enough to have money or vision. many roma children today still cannot fulfill their dreams. instead of words, my friends, we need action or realization. i would like to challenge you, commissioner, and you, colleagues. let's fight even more for roma children and their future. i'm convinced that if we invest in them, we'll get a return that's multiplied.
member of the commission. – mr president, minister, thank you, honourable members, for this debate. i will recall once more that building a union of equality is one of the major priorities of this commission. the adoption of the 2008 proposal for the equal treatment directive remains a priority for the commission because it would fill important gaps of eu legislation on non-discrimination by extending protection against discrimination on the basis of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation, in relevant fields. but as you know, adoption requires unanimity in council, and it is always what i speak to every incoming presidency about. so rest assured that it is not because we are not trying to get this done and dusted. i reiterate the commission’s support to the council negotiation by all possible means, and i will continue engaging with ministers for as long as necessary. we also call on all member states for support, of course. so the success is in this key file for a european union of equality is about political will, determination and constructive spirit. it is about whether in 2023 we are comfortable having second—class citizens. and for those of you coming from member states still resisting this proposal, i also urge you to push your governments to support this important proposal.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, once again, let me underline how valuable it is to maintain these issues on the agenda and keep discussing them. it is part of the priority for the presidency. your active engagement in the fight against discrimination is vitally appreciated. madam kuhnke, and about the timetable, as i said in my first intervention, we intend to place the proposal on the agenda for a technical level discussion in the coming weeks and a plan to have a report in the epsco council in june. it will not be easy, but today’s discussion will provide useful input into our work. may i also recall that the council’s work against discrimination goes well beyond the directive. for example, the swedish presidency has launched a discussion on the commission’s proposals on standards for equality bodies. we are also working on a set of council conclusions on mainstreaming a gender equality perspective in policies, programmes and budgets, as well as council conclusions on the safety of lgbtiq persons in the eu, both of which we hope to see approved in june. honourable members, the road to equality is a long one and parliament and the council both have a role to play in this endeavour. i am pleased to see that we are committed to working on this path together. thank you very much for the debate and yes, mr angel, we will do our best.
the debate is over. the vote will take place at the april meeting. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. hungary attaches importance to the fight against discrimination. it is not undeniable that there are discrimination phenomena that need to be addressed, but it is also not undeniable that europe is performing poorly in the fight against discrimination in global comparisons. in hungary, act cxxv of 2003 on equal treatment and promotion of equal opportunities provides comprehensive legislation, offering more extensive protection than existing eu law: it already covers the areas that the draft horizontal anti-discrimination directive is intended to regulate. meanwhile, the eu has been unable to reach an agreement since 2009, so that a prohibition of discrimination against certain groups, which is agreed between member states and even binds the eu by law, cannot be enacted because of dilemmas with other groups. the only way forward is to avoid forcing everything into one directive. there is no reason to switch from unanimity under article 19 tfeu to qualified majority voting in anti-discrimination legislation. the solution to the impasse in the negotiations is not to apply the passerelle clause but to develop a compromise proposal acceptable to all member states. the commission should submit a separate legislative proposal on those subjects where there is agreement. it is also worth looking beyond the law: an effective tool to combat discrimination is to tackle the social problems that cause it: changing stereotypes and prejudices, shaping attitudes and ensuring proper social integration.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on iran: in particular the poisoning of hundreds of schoolchildren (2023/2587 ((rsp)).
colleagues, just a quick announcement: because we are over half an hour delayed, there will be no catch-the-eye procedure or blue cards for the rest of the evening so that all of us, especially the interpreters can make it on time.
member of the commission. – mr president. i want to thank this house for its continued close attention to the worrying internal situation in iran. the nationwide unrest following the death of mahsa amini has decreased substantially, but the root causes of social unrest are still there and are not being seriously addressed by the iranian authorities. there is serious concern about the fast—track trials and the harsh sentences – including death sentences – handed down against protesters. the death penalty is an unacceptable denial of human dignity and integrity, and the eu aims at its universal abolition. the eu and its member states have been quick to condemn and react to the iranian authorities handling of the protests and continue to respond to any issue of concern from iran. human rights and fundamental freedoms must be respected in all circumstances. the eu is closely monitoring the ongoing pardoning of iranian convicts and detainees, including those unjustly arrested in the context of the protests. we expect iran to make good use of this opportunity. iran has been on the agenda of the foreign affairs council for the past six months. five packages of targeted, restricted restrictive measures have been adopted so far, and this approach will continue as long as necessary, in line with the council conclusions adopted in december, which define the eu's policy approach towards iran. the countrywide poisoning of iranian students, mostly female students, including schoolchildren, is a further cause for concern. we express our solidarity with the student victims of the poisonings and their families. many aspects still need to be clarified, including who is behind this new series of attacks and what the motive is. we are following reports of arrests made in recent days and expect iran to conduct a proper and transparent investigation and hold the perpetrators accountable, in full respect of the due process rights of the accused individuals. in line with the council conclusions supported by all member states. keeping channels of communication open with iran continues to be crucial in order to address, as appropriate, the multiple challenges posed by iran, ranging from human rights to the nuclear dimension, and from the jcpoa to the unacceptable military cooperation with russia. the hr/vp and the eu foreign ministers will continue to take stock at the next foreign affairs council, and i can assure you that they will continue to show zero tolerance towards abuses and human rights violations.
the debate is over. the vote will take place on thursday 16 march 2023. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on tunisia: recent attacks on freedom of expression and association and trade unions, notably the case of journalist nuraidin butar (2023/2588 ((rsp)).
mr president, only 11% of tunisia’s voters participated in the recent legislative elections. this is a strong message addressed to the president of the republic, saied, who is in the process of imposing a dictatorial regime. people are aware of his intentions and methodology and refuse to offer him a democratic alibi. tunisia passed, during a period of 12 years, from dictatorship to the arab spring, to disenchantment with democratically elected governments and is in danger of returning to the starting point in a much worse economic and social situation. president saied suspended the democratically elected government and parliament in july 2021 and since then has been restricting media freedom, persecuting journalists, trade unionists and political opponents. he projects himself as the solution to tunisia's problems. in my view, he is in the process of becoming one of his country's major problems.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for giving me the opportunity to join this timely debate on tunisia. the different interventions today have shown that we broadly share the analysis and the concern over the latest developments in tunisia – an important partner and a close neighbour for the eu. the arrests of prominent political, civil society and media figures in recent weeks are indeed worrying. so are some recent statements targeting the sub-saharan migrants in the country, which have already led to arrests, harassment and violence. these events contribute to a climate of growing internal tension and polarisation. democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, including freedom of expression, are values that the people of tunisia chose during the jasmine revolution in 2011. they also constitute the foundation of the eu’s partnership with tunisia, in which the country’s vibrant and dynamic civil society also plays an important role. that is why we will continue to advocate for the preservation and consolidation of these values. we will equally keep insisting on an inclusive dialogue among the various forces in tunisian society, so that a common project can emerge for the future of the country. that is the only way to ensure social cohesion and the sustainability of major and urgently needed reforms. at the same time, the economic situation in tunisia is increasingly dire, with a direct impact on the life of tunisians, who are suffering from inflation, scarcity of products and high unemployment, especially among the young. the consequences of russia’s aggression against ukraine have hit tunisia particularly hard and further aggravated the situation. therefore, we must not turn our backs on the tunisian people, and we must show that we are standing by our partners when they need us most. the foreign affairs council next week will also discuss the situation in tunisia and chart a way forward for eu engagement with the country. as always, the european parliament will be fully informed, and we look forward to continuing the discussion with you.
the debate is over. the vote will take place on thursday 16 march 2023.
the next item is the debate on five motions for resolutions on cambodia: the case of opposition leader kem sokhu (2023/2589 ((rsp)).
author. – mr president, dear colleagues, first of all, i would like to thank all the co-rapporteurs for your cooperation on this urgent case of political persecution. the three decades of hun sen’s rule have placed cambodia on the list of repressive regimes. the recent imprisonment of the opposition leader, kem sokha, for 27 years only strengthened the one-party government and worsened the human rights in cambodia. moreover, at least 39 political opposition members are currently in cambodian prisons. this all happens just before the upcoming elections in july. therefore, we call for the immediate and unconditional release of kem sokha and all opposition officials and activists convicted or held in custody in politically motivated charges. further, we urge the cambodian authorities to ensure free and fair elections in july 2023. the government’s systematic repression against independent media, civil society and political opposition must end. the recent shutdown of one of the last remaining independent media outlets, voice of democracy, is one more step for hun sen to seize power completely. the eu is cambodia’s largest export market, accounting for 45% of the country’s exports and, as such, it is the duty of the eu to be an active advocate for human rights and use this vital position to promote them. cambodia benefits from access to the eu market under the ‘everything but arms’ (eba) scheme. however, respecting human rights and fundamental freedom is an essential part of the eu trade policy. therefore, we call for the further suspension of the eba status if the violations of human rights and freedom continue. this is a strong and efficient tool for the eu, and we should not hesitate to use it. thank you for your support.
a writer. the commission has already done so. a cambodian opposition politician speaks in australia in 2013 and advocates for political pluralism and democratic competition, and for this he is now facing 27 years of house arrest. with the conviction of kem sokha, another part of a desirable democracy in cambodia dies. an independent judiciary is a false flag. the government can steer the political field as it sees fit. democracy is no longer at its core. we just need to listen to prime minister hun sen, who said in january of this year, and i quote, "be careful! if i can't control my temper, you will be destroyed. now you might think that a politician might have crossed the line. no, not at all. in cambodia, the opposition must take such a threat more than seriously. the case of kem sokha has proved this. kem sokha must be released immediately! the elections in july of this year should open the door to a cambodian democracy that leads to the future and that makes possible a society and a democracy that are on the rise.
author. mr president, the release of kem sokha, the leader of the cambodian opposition, is the message that our parliament is beating on the doorstep tonight. he was sentenced to 27 years in prison on march 3 in a travesty of justice, and is the last political prisoner to date of a regime that is more than ever incapable of tolerating any dissenting voice. whether it is political, like kem sokha, dozens of opposition activists who are harassed and judged en masse by the government, or media, like vod, voice of democracy, one of the last independent media in the country that was silenced last month. so, pnom penh must release kem sokha, pnom penh must guarantee its participation in free, fair and transparent elections in july. pnom penh must rehabilitate its party of cambodia's national salvation. the european union must support the democratic aspirations of the cambodian people. we have the means. let's punish those who censor democracy and use all the means in our toolbox to free kem sokha.
author. – mr president, commissioner, the eu has already partially suspended the trade benefits of the ‘everything but arms’ scheme. and now what we see is that the opposition leader kem sokha has been convicted on politically fabricated accusations to a prison sentence of 27 years by a ruler that has ruled the country for 38 years. and i think the european union should indeed insist that, if these violations will continue, then we will indeed use all the possible means to see that the situation would be improved. we also could improve indeed, and could include the possibility to altogether continue to suspend the ‘everything but arms’ benefits.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i'm not going to let you down. ladies and gentlemen! the cambodian debate is back. a draconian sentence and the question is, what can we do? how are we supposed to protest? i've had wise and pious men before me. i agree with what they said. i've been thinking about what to say, and maybe it's time, mr. chairman, to protest in a different way. i have 30 seconds left of my speech, and i would like to use those 30 seconds of silence to stand in solidarity with those who are persecuted in cambodia.
mr president, madam commissioner, dear colleagues, let me, on your behalf, most heartily welcome sam rainsy, leader of the cambodia national rescue party, and his delegation visiting the european parliament today. you are most welcome mr rainsy to our house. dear colleagues, the 27-year sentence for cambodian opposition leader kem sokha was shocking news to cambodians and the democratic community worldwide. the hun sen regime disregards the basic norms of an open society and suppresses the opposition in the run-up to this summer’s parliamentary elections. i call on the commission and the external action service to take immediate actions to further reduce preferential trade with cambodia unless, i emphasise, unless all charges against kem sokha are dropped and he is immediately released. i call for individual sanctions against regime officials if parliamentary elections are not held in a free and fair manner. the officials responsible for the most serious human rights violations, such as generals hing bun hieng and kun kim, should be among the first ones added to the eu magnitsky list.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, in all our engagements with cambodian authorities, we have been placing a strong emphasis on the protection and promotion of human rights, including the respect for fundamental freedoms. serious and systematic violations of human rights, including the emblematic case of opposition leader kem sokha, who was charged with treason in 2017, led the commission to partially withdraw trade preferences from cambodia under the everything but arms scheme. on 23 july 2023, cambodia will hold parliamentary elections. the recent conviction of kem sokha to 27 years in jail, excluding him from participating in the electoral process, deprives once again cambodian citizens of their right to choose their representatives in a transparent and credible electoral process. after a long three-year judicial process, the court has delivered a harsh verdict. the european union has joined others in the international community, including several of our member states, in condemning this unjustified sentence. we have been unequivocal in calling for the reopening of civic and political space in cambodia. we have also called on the cambodian authorities for the immediate release of kem sokha and the reinstatement of his political rights. we will be following the conditions of his detention while in house arrest. our political dialogue with cambodia intensified in 2022 – the year cambodia held the asean chairmanship. local elections took place in the same year with the participation of the opposition, which received over 20% of the votes. we engaged in frequent contacts at all levels of the cambodian government throughout the year, where we discussed the constraints, legal and otherwise, of the political environment at all meetings, including at high level, especially in relation to opening space for the upcoming parliamentary elections. the high representative also took the opportunity to meet kem sokha in his home during his august visit to cambodia. however, since the beginning of 2023, we observed new judicial cases brought against representatives of the main opposition party, the candlelight party, and further restrictions to the freedom of expression and media freedom. the recent closure of voice of democracy, an independent media outlet in cambodia, has restricted further the capacity of citizens to access information from independent sources. in the run up to the elections. the eu will continue to call on the cambodian authorities to take all measures to ensure inclusive, transparent and credible parliamentary elections in june 2023.
the debate is over. the vote will take place on thursday 16 march 2023.
the next and final item on the agenda today is explanations of vote.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
the next meeting will take place tomorrow, thursday 16 march 2023 at 9:00 a.m. the agenda was published and is available on the european parliament's website.
the minutes of this sitting will be tabled for parliament's approval tomorrow at the beginning of the afternoon's sitting. the negotiations are concluded.
thank you very much, especially to the interpreters, for staying until such a late hour, and have a good night everyone. (the sitting closed at 23.28)
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the ideal world described in the european petition entitled 'save bees and farmers', our agricultural production could be entirely free of synthetic pesticides. but reality rarely matches the dream. the petition's goal of eliminating synthetic pesticides by 80% by 2030 and 100% by 2035 is unrealistic. such a programme might save bees, but it would certainly not save european agriculture. if you are not convinced, look at what is happening to french beet growers who have just been deprived of neonicotinoids entirely by the unfortunate combination of a national law and a ruling by the european court of justice. of course, we must reduce the use of synthetic pesticides, but we must do so in a rational and scientific way, without being bound by dates that do not correspond to anything. this reduction can only be achieved at the same rate as research progresses towards alternative solutions. new genomic techniques are opening up promising prospects in this respect. but until then, we must resist the demagogy and whims of the green ayatollahs. the priority of the european union in this period of international crisis must be to ensure its food self-sufficiency, which implies continuing to use synthetic pesticides to the strict extent necessary.
i am here today with mixed feelings. on the one hand, i'm super proud that so many people have come out to protect bees and farmers. on the other hand, i am angry that this european parliament does not see the need for a truly healthy and safe food system. bees are threatened by the massive use of agricultural pesticides, but when pollinators go extinct, this has disastrous consequences for nature and for the production of our food. industrial agriculture, dependent on fertilizer and poison, threatens the future of the planet and of all rural dwellers. i hear a lot of support for the citizens' initiative here today, but meanwhile legislation to reduce agricultural spending is being sabotaged by this parliament. the amount of misinformation and fear-mongering we hear around this bill is comparable to the tobacco industry's attempts to weaken and delay legislation that is necessary to protect people from lung cancer. the agro-industry tactics are similar: to sow doubt about cause and effect with the aim of delaying and weakening. i hope common sense prevails. we must urgently work to protect bees and to eliminate dangerous agricultural poisons. we urgently need to restore nature and we need to help farmers switch to a small-scale, sustainable, plant-based and healthy diet.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. i come from slovenia, which is a country of beekeepers. we have 11,000 beekeepers per two million people, the most per capita. we have a great beekeeping association that was the initiator of the honey breakfast, so that for decades in slovenia every third friday young people learn about biodiversity, the role of bees. we also have world bee day, which was an initiative of our beekeeping association. there has been no bee disease in slovenia since 2011. and you know why? because beekeepers and farmers work together, because we respect each other, we respect the rules. and the president of the beekeeping association said at the end: "as long as the rules are followed, there is no problem. i'm a fruit grower myself. i use pesticides and for 30 years i've been driving bees into my orchard during flowering. do you know whose bees have been in my orchard for the last ten years? bees from my son. ten hives of bees in the orchard every spring. no bee has ever died. i think that we must also be moderate in our regulations, respect the rules, go in the direction of giving farmers the possibility of having resistant varieties, adopt this legislation, have technical solutions within the framework of precision agriculture, have other solutions that have proved to be appropriate in agro-ecological methods and that farmers are also applying. so i think that the partisan debate and the idea of completely eliminating pesticides in a very short period of time is not realistic. but i support this debate today.
madam president, commissioner mcguinness, i would first of all like to congratulate the authors of this citizens' initiative, because it reflects the critical spirit of this initiative and, above all, it reflects a desire to improve the living conditions of all of us. therefore, my respect and congratulations to the authors. this citizens' initiative aims to phase out synthetic pesticides, restore biodiversity and support farmers in this transition. i don't think there's anyone against these three things. however, i'll be clear on this point: i don't know if the complete elimination of these pesticides by 2035 is a realistic possibility. we need to go hand in hand with the farmers and offer them alternatives. we must ensure plant health at all times, just as human health; plant health is also important, food security, the affordability of food products, which we remember more in times of inflation. i therefore think that this is a good initiative, provided that we do not forget, from the first sentence to the last, that farmers must receive support with possible agronomic possibilities. we must also avoid abandonment of farms. so i agree with all of that. but sometimes i hear words here that only partially maintain balance. who's going to be against preserving biodiversity? but to make it possible, we must also clearly support the farmers; otherwise it is only fiction.
madam president, not only scientists but ordinary citizens are telling us this clearly. dangerous synthetic pesticides are killing bees, other pollinators, threatening human health. we have integrated pest management, biological protection, and nature-friendly farming. it's all well known, but it's still not used properly. why would you do that? the authorisations for pesticides already known to not meet the criteria are continuously renewed. the commission turns a blind eye to the exceptions for pesticides that are already banned, that threaten pollinators, but are given further authorisations, even though alternatives exist. and that includes slovakia. farmers don't know about alternatives. there is simply no independent advice. what are the alternatives? that's how you throw logs underfoot. i expect the commission to finally change its approach and to remove the poisons that kill bees and other pollinators from our fields.
madam president, let's save the bees and the farmers. a very clear call for action in the context of another successful environmental citizens' initiative. it's really about saving the farmers. the practices that we continue to support en masse are killing bees, robbing the countryside of life and threatening the very essence of agriculture. let's talk about how many pesticides we need to eliminate, but let's not argue that we need to limit them. let's talk about how much and what kind of soil we regenerate, but let's not pretend that this measure is not critical to saving pollinators. let's look for ways to educate farmers and help them transition to organic farming, but let's not pretend that the current system is good for them. we're going to have a spring weekend. snowflakes will bloom, willows will bloom, there will be bees on them, certainly not honeybees. stop by the house. enjoy this springtime phenomenon and wonder why and where it happens. i trust you will understand that where bees prosper, so will people. let's save the bees and the farmers. it can be done.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank mrs charanzová and our shadow rapporteur, mrs marion walsmann, for an excellent job and to focus on two points which i consider particularly important. the first is that this regulation - and here too, by the way, we are dealing with a change from a directive to a regulation - ensures that what is prohibited offline is also prohibited online and that what is allowed online remains allowed offline. this is important because we want to achieve a level playing field between the digital and the analogue worlds. this is important because this regulation is so old that it could not cover all the digital products and services that need to be regulated today. and that is why we are taking a big step forward here for the internal market, for consumer safety. i'm very grateful for that. secondly, i also believe that in the event of a crisis - and we are also dealing with the consequences of the corona crisis together with some colleagues - we must ensure that non-harmonised products can also be approved quickly in the event of a crisis - of course only in the event of a crisis and only in the event of a crisis - but that we extend the general product safety regulation here in a way that is appropriate for the event of a crisis, to ensure that we can act quickly in the event of a crisis and avoid what happened in the corona crisis, namely that products suddenly reappeared at the border, at the customs border, because member states did not move forward because of doubts about the product authorisation. that didn't help us in the crisis. we should change that. i therefore believe that the work to improve the internal market for the coming years is unfortunately not yet complete. so i look forward to working on it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to also comment on this extremely important piece of legislation which regulates what i consider to be the crown of european law, namely consumer law. i would like to thank and highlight the role of a very dear friend and rapporteur, mrs dita charanz, without whom we would not be discussing such a great success today - the new regulation on consumer law. there were a lot of important changes and positive shifts from the current legislation, the alignment of online and offline space, but for ordinary citizens there are a lot of new institutions that people in practice will appreciate. and among other things, we can show how important the european union is in protecting their consumer rights. i very much welcome, for example, the establishment of clear rules on liability for products from third countries. in today's globalized world, citizens are increasingly buying products from china, from other countries, but often they have a problem with what to do if the product is not of quality. the fact that a person will now be appointed to be responsible for a poor quality product from a third country is, in my view, a very important thing for the average european. protecting vulnerable consumers, children, that's also something i consider very important. and then there's a whole new set of regulations that prevent a product that's been withdrawn from the market from being put back on the market. these are just some of the specific things that will make life easier for specific people, and that's why i welcome the legislation.
mr president, thank you to the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs for bringing us to this point. consumers in the eu should be able to buy from anywhere in europe or the world and know that the products they buy are safe. this needs to become the norm. toys, motor cars, cosmetics, clothing and electrical appliances top the list of dangerous products found in the single market, and half of those products come from outside the european union. all products traded in the eu are subject to general safety requirements. but to keep up with challenges linked to digitalisation and the increasing amount of goods and products sold online, these rules are no longer suited to addressing current digital technological developments and the challenges. thanks to this new legislation, marketplaces will be safer and we will have the tools to spot dangerous products and get them removed from online marketplaces quickly. consumers will now be informed about recalls of products that they bought before it hurts them. this general product safety regulation is future-proofed, as it covers all consumer products and also new digital ones. the new rules ensure that economic operators have to have a responsible product person for products sold online and offline, whether they originate in the eu or from a third country. if a product has proven to be unsafe, economic operators are required to immediately adopt corrective measures and inform market surveillance authorities and consumers accordingly. if a product has to be recalled, consumers will be entitled to repair, replacement or refund. these new rules for online marketplaces will increase safety, better protect consumers, and help us in reaching a level playing field when it comes to online and offline sectors.
a uachtaráin, commissioner, the general product safety regulation is an important regulation that directly impacts the lives of every eu citizen by ensuring that all products sold in the european union are safe for consumers. the gpsr has allowed european consumers to trust the products they buy, particularly for high-risk products, such as toys for our children and electrical appliances. although the gpsr has had an overall positive effect, we shouldn’t ignore enforcement challenges and the fact that some dangerous products can still make their way onto the market. the market is constantly changing, and regulation must evolve with it. i am happy that specific attention has been paid to the need to provide appropriate support for smes. in addition, it is positive that a repair, replacement or an adequate refund will always be proposed for customers. the general product safety regulation is an important piece of legislation, and i support all efforts to ensure it fits today’s marketplace.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i want to thank all of you for this debate, and mostly for the work parliament that has put into this new general product safety regulation. it is an important step to achieving a high level of protection of eu consumers so that products can no longer put their health and safety in danger, and – i understand also – in a gender-balanced way, which is a good achievement. it’s also a crucial piece of legislation to ensure that all businesses compete on the basis of a level playing field. the new regulation provides strong enforcement tools and gives powers to the member states to do what is necessary. the commission stands ready to do everything to facilitate the implementation of this new piece of legislation to ensure that it can be implemented quickly and properly by all stakeholders.
rapporteur. – mr president, mr vice-president, first of all, i would like to thank everybody who spoke today. as with many of you, i am particularly happy that we managed to have all these concrete practical improvements to product safety in the european union while also taking the right balance – the right balance between the need to protect consumers and to keep proportionality. i think we managed to address the weak points of our safety net, taking into account a risk-based approach, keeping bureaucracy at a minimum, and focusing on the real needs of consumers and economic operators. i take this occasion to thank all my shadows who helped and contributed to this process. i would like to thank also the imco secretariat, renew advisors and special thanks to my assistant, andrew hillman – the force behind me. our priority was to bring the single market into the 21st century, both online and offline, to make sure europeans have the best and widest choice of safe products. a single market where you can always find what is right for you, what is right for your family. tomorrow we can all vote in favour of this legislation and be proud that we, as the european parliament, have done something to help our citizens to be even safer in the future.
the debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 30 march 2023. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the adoption by the european parliament of a regulation on general product safety is a huge step forward for consumers and businesses across the eu. i support the introduction of these provisions because of the many benefits that this legislation brings. the regulation will harmonise product safety across the eu, which in turn will help to strengthen the market surveillance system and build the internal market on a level playing field. the definition of clear obligations for traders responsible for the marketing of products, as well as the introduction of the institution of the person responsible in the eu for companies selling their products outside the union, introduces precise rules for individual participants in the supply chain. the introduction of the new rules is also an adaptation of the legal environment to the current market situation, in particular related to technical progress and the development of new technologies, as well as the increasing popularity of online sales. proposing proportionate obligations on the safety of products offered on online trading platforms is a good solution that does not restrict the possibility of convenient shopping at an attractive price. i am convinced that the introduction of new duties will have a positive impact on consumer protection. consistent and friendly law is a success for all eu citizens who benefit from the single market.
in writing. i did. the updated law ensures that only the highest safety standards are sold in the eu, both online and in brick and mortar stores. the new regulation extends the liability of traders, such as manufacturers, importers and distributors, increases the powers of market surveillance authorities and imposes clear obligations on online shops. in order to mitigate risks, online trading venues shall cooperate with market surveillance authorities, which may in turn order online shops to remove or block access to dangerous products without undue delay and within two working days at the latest. products originating from outside the eu may only be placed on the market if they are the responsibility of an eu-registered operator. the revised rules also improve the procedure for recalling products. currently, few products are recalled and it is estimated that one third of eu consumers continue to use the recalled products. in conclusion, the new rules will help the most vulnerable consumers, especially children.
the next item on the agenda is the commission's declaration on the rights of children in rainbow families, and in particular of same-sex parents in italy (2023/2629 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, a union of equality is a priority. it’s a major priority of commission president von der leyen. a union based on the principle of equality for all and of equality in all of its senses. indeed, equality and non-discrimination are core values and fundamental rights in the union. to achieve this objective, in 2020, the commission adopted the first-ever strategy on lgbtiq equality. this strategy aims to build a union where lgbtiq people, in all their diversity, are safe and have equal opportunities to participate fully in society and thus reach their full potential. this includes equal opportunities and rights of children with same-sex parents. under the united nations convention on the rights of the child of 1989, member states must respect the rights of the child without discrimination of any kind and take all appropriate measures to ensure that the child is protected against all forms of discrimination or sanctions based on the situation of his or her parents. equally, under the eu treaties and the eu charter of fundamental rights, all children have the same rights without discrimination, that is, irrespective of how children were conceived or born and irrespective of the type of family. when applying their national law, member states must respect their obligations under international law. when applying union law, member states must respect the eu treaties and the eu charter of fundamental rights, and it is the duty of the union and of every member state to protect these rights. this means that in the union, children who have same-sex parents are entitled to exactly the same rights as any or other children, and that these rights should be respected and protected by both the union and the member states. it is common ground that under the eu treaties, substantive family law falls within the competence of the member states. member states can therefore decide whether, under their national law, a child can have same-sex parents. however, it is equally clear that under the eu treaties, the union can propose and adopt measures on family law with cross-border implications. this legislation, based on mutual trust between member states, aims to protect the rights of citizens and to facilitate the exercise of their right to free movement. eu legislation can therefore require a member state to recognise the parenthood of a child as established in another member state, and that in order to avoid discriminating against certain categories of children, this obligation applies also as regards children who have same-sex parents. in fact, already today member states are required, under union law on free movement, to recognise the parenthood of a child with same-sex parents, as established in another member state for the purposes of rights under union law, such as the right to enter or reside in another member state. this obligation on member states was confirmed by the court of justice in december 2021 in the vma case: a case concerning a child with two mothers. in addition, under the eu treaties, the union has competence to propose and adopt legislation requiring member states to recognise the parenthood of a child with same-sex parents also for the purposes of rights under national law, such as the right of a child to inheritance, to maintenance and to be legally represented in another member state on matters such as health and schooling. accordingly, in 2020, president von der leyen committed to ensure that the parenthood established in a member state would be recognised in all other member states. implementing this political commitment, in december 2022, the commission adopted a proposal on the recognition of parenthood between member states. the aim of this proposal is to ensure that the fundamental rights of children, such as the right to an identity and to a private and family life, and their rights under national law, such as the right to inheritance, maintenance and legal representation, are respected and protected in cross-border situations within the union. the obligation on member states to recognise the parenthood of a child as established in another member state would apply without discrimination against any category of children. this means that it would apply irrespective of how children are conceived or born, irrespective of their nationality and irrespective of their type of family, therefore including the parenthood of children with same-sex parents. the commission proposal on the recognition of parenthood between member states is an instrument of private international law. this means that it does not interfere with any competence of member states as to how they define family under their national law. the proposal only applies in cross-border situations. it aims to facilitate the recognition of parenthood between member states in order to guarantee the continuity of parenthood across borders, the rights of children across borders, and to ensure that children’s right to free movement is not deterred by the fear that parenthood will not be recognised in another member state. the proposal would achieve those aims by harmonising rules applicable only in cross-border situations, namely rules determining which member states’ courts are competent to establish parenthood; rules determining which national law should apply to establish parenthood in a cross-border situation; rules providing how a document establishing or providing parenthood in a member state should be recognised in another member state; and rules creating a european certificate of parenthood that citizens can use to prove parenthood in another member state. i should note that the same type of measures have already been adopted by the eu legislator in other areas of family law with cross-border implications. as a second point, i point out that the commission proposal does not require member states to recognise parenthood established in a third country. this means that the recognition of the parenthood of a child would remain subject to the recognition rules of each member state if the parenthood has been established by a third country. the commission’s proposal only covers the binding recognition of parenthood established by the authorities of a member state. i note that the mutual trust between member states on which the commission proposal relies is based on the fact that all member states are required to protect the rights of children, not only under the eu treaties and the eu charter of fundamental rights, but also under international law, including the un convention on the rights of the child, the european convention on human rights and the case-law of the european court of human rights, all of which require member states to protect the rights of children without any kind of discrimination and therefore including children with same-sex parents.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you have rightly made a very fine speech in this completely empty chamber, because the left in this parliament, encouraged above all by the italian delegation, is not interested. they do not even stop at the sacrosanct rights of children born to homosexual families in order to attack the italian government and italy. they even made an amendment which would not have been accepted in italy, it is inadmissible, it must be thrown out, because it is not true that the italian government has blocked mayor sala who came today to make this spectacle facing the balcony. it was a judgment of the court of cassation, so the judges, in chambers, who said, in the absence of a law, that you can not directly register births. i strongly agree with the council regulation on mutual certification, recognition and acceptance between member states. i don't think the left wing, benifei and the others, have even read it. they just want to speak against italy. so let's protect the children, all of us, all of us, but let's stop, at least have some pity in the face of this. let us really talk about these issues, but stop attacking italy, because otherwise we will have arguments every week. there is no text for this topic, it was just made like this: he takes one, he stands up and says, "let's attack italy, let's talk about the children". shame on you! you should be ashamed of yourselves! i also didn't like sala's attitude, who, instead of thinking about the stations in milan where there are criminals, comes here to make scripts, not for the benefit of children. by doing so you are working against the rights of children. shame on you!
i am sorry, mr president, but i have to say that i have not read the government's minutes. i have read, however, the profoundly discriminatory and violent statements against the rainbow families and their children by the italian right, a right that is out of the canon of a european conservative force from the western european countries and that looks more towards, perhaps, the orbán model. so i say no to the urbanisation of italy and yes to respect for the rights of all families and all children. i would like to thank the european parliament and the groups who have decided to hold a debate on this subject, which affects many european countries, but which is now seeing italy in a dangerous regression, and the government's attempt to do this by blocking the registration of sons and daughters of same-sex couples in the city registers and by opposing the european regulation on the certificate of filiation. i therefore thank the mayors of the main italian cities, not only sala who was here today, but also gualtieri, manfredi, lo russo, lepore, nardella and decaro, who have decided to continue in the same vein as the cities in the past, i am thinking of mayor pisapia, who is here today as a member of the european parliament, who in 2012 had already set up a register of civil unions in milan. i think it is important that we, perhaps also from other european countries, be present in turin on 12 may when there will be a large national demonstration in support of these families, because the government, which is unable to solve the problems of bills and the rising cost of living and which is waging a tax reform against the majority of italian taxpayers, is attacking the families and their children. we, as the democratic party, will be pushing forward a proposal for marriage equality with access to adoption and for the recognition of same-sex couples. our secretary elly schlein said that and we will work towards that because, as the commissioner's words also say, there are no a-class and b-class children, no a-class and b-class families. we must move forward to protect the rights of all.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there is no doubt that the establishment of a legal framework of adequate safeguards for homosexual couples in italy is struggling to gain ground. only in 2016, thanks to the renzi government's confidence in the parliament, italy passed a law allowing civil unions between people of the same sex. the judgments of the judiciary and the courage of some mayors have gradually encouraged the evolution of a legal framework that, even in the absence of specific rules, guarantees the rights of lgbt couples and their children. today's debate is not about expressing opinions on surrogacy or other ethically controversial issues. this is about ensuring the rights of children, which are also protected by the un convention on the rights of the child. no one, not the minister of the interior nor the head of the italian government, the real inspiration behind the decision of the prefect of milan, can afford to undermine the freedom of future citizens of europe to carry on political battles against same-sex families. faced with obvious failures in immigration, economic and foreign policy, the meloni government is trying to stir up a clash over ethically sensitive issues, all about skin and children's rights.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the italian ministry of the interior has instructed the prefectures to instruct the municipalities to stop registering children of same-sex couples. it did so on the basis of a ruling by the corte di cassazione, the highest appellate body in the italian judicial system, which has clarified, once again, that these registers violate italian national law. a law which has been in force since long before giorgia meloni became prime minister and which the italian left, in its long years in government without ever winning an election, has never, ever considered changing, and if it wants to try it now it is asked to do so in the italian parliament and not in the european parliament. with the goodwill of mayor sala and his catwalk today, this is an all-ideological battle. those who hide behind the alleged denial of rights to children hide the fact that the few children affected by this situation assume all, all, all rights upon recognition by a biological parent and there is no discrimination. the problem of transcriptions arises mainly because homosexual couples who have had children abroad, almost always using a surrogacy, would like two parents to be registered. if italy were to do this, it would legitimize surrogate motherhood, an aberrant practice which commodifies women and children in the face of denied rights, a practice which has been repeatedly condemned in this parliament, which is prohibited by italian law and which we want to make a universal crime. that is why, madam commissioner, we do not agree with the regulation proposed by the commission, because this is a matter strictly within the competence of the national states and the european treaties on which we are based make this clear. so, for once, take a good look at yourselves and stop this mad drift.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, children are children, regardless of how they are procreated, how they come into the world, the race and sexual orientation of their parents. their rights must be defended, without question. and i say that as the mother of three biological daughters and two adopted. what is happening in italy, in my country, is shameful. a far-right government that is waging a covert war on families like mine, just because they're different from mine. this is not the europe we dream of, this is not the europe which defends in the treaties the equality of its citizens and the respect of their rights. commissioner reynders' answer to one of our questions is in the right direction. recognising the rights of children of rainbow families is a matter of social justice, but also of legality. the principle of subsidiarity has nothing to do with it because nobody is disputing family law, but fundamental rights are protected. commissioner, you can't stop here. use all the powers of the treaties to get recognition for children of same-sex parents. let us fight together for a europe that is free and open to all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the failure of this debate and the real purpose of this debate are confirmed by the totalitarian absence of all the members who have gathered here today to insistently demand a debate whose sole purpose was to bring back a national issue which is being exploited at the moment. it is surprising that parliament should be allowed to be used as a political tool by those who have brought a national question, a national debate, a national polemic to brussels on a subject which should have been dealt with differently, not on a different agenda. it is a delicate, sensitive subject, one on which everyone should be able to express his or her own views, even if they are different in the sensitivity that such an important subject requires, and to do so without prejudice. instead, you chose to ride on national emotions, through a debate without resolution, which has a simple flavour, and you have shown this when you have started to describe the current government of italy as a far-right government which is only to blame for having noted the absence of specific legislation and for having referred to a judgment of the court of cassation. the result of this little theatre is yet another waste of time in what could have been a step forward in protecting the rights of children and families with the same parents, thanks to a well-reasoned discussion, a constructive comparison where, i repeat, the different sensitivities had to converge and where the main problem in our specific case would have emerged, namely the lack of legislation and the attempt to harmonize a rule in all states. i therefore congratulate the many colleagues, including italian ones, who have at this moment wanted to advance their political interests, which are obviously too weak to be claimed in the right national venue, by drugging this debate with national issues and misleading public opinion. (the speaker agrees to reply to a 'blue card' intervention)
the answer is "blue card". no one is questioning the rights of children. we're insisting that you understand that such an important issue would have required a different path. you're lending yourself to a national controversy, and it's no accident that there's a political window or a catwalk. we are not denying the need to reach a common standard here, but europe is the place of division, not of cheering. you are only having a political debate and the failure of your request is the total absence of everyone who should have been here, because i am also in favour of children's rights, but i want a rule, i do not want emotion. there is no law and there is an attempt on the part of europe to harmonize. so that is what we are asking for, that we do not lend ourselves to instrumentalization, otherwise this becomes the national parliament and i do not think we have been elected to discuss national issues here.
mr president, dear commissioner dalli, dear colleagues, children of same-sex parents and children growing up in rainbow families, they deserve to fully enjoy the same rights as their peers from opposite-sex parents. and this in all 27 member states, and this is why it’s also a european affair. for us socialists and democrats, the best interests of children is always a primary consideration and priority, in line with the un convention on the rights of the child. and the best interest of the child is not only enshrined in the un convention, but it’s also enshrined in many constitutions of our member states, and also the italian constitution. i was surprised to hear ms mussolini saying that she’s in favour of the regulation for mutual recognition of parenthood. but why did her party colleagues in italy in the senate vote a resolution to veto this european union regulation? this is facts what happened in italy. and there we see this shift of italy shifting towards those countries who organise state-sponsored homo- and transphobia. and also the imposition on the italian city halls to stop the registration of children of same-sex parents, this puts a huge strain on children and it exposes them also to widespread discrimination and a lack of protection, and ultimately jeopardising them and hampering their rights to reach their full potential. italian mayors like beppe sala, they are doing what should be done. they are upholding the rights of children and they put the children’s rights first. they do not want two categories of children in their municipalities. they have understood that recognising diverse families benefits everyone, and it takes no one’s entitlements away. europe must guarantee all children to see their family acknowledged and validated by law. this is very important and this is a european issue.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your words. the italian far-right government is targeting the lgbti community to hide its own incompetence on many other issues. a tyranny that in its ideological fury takes innocent victims: the children. and so they prefer to deny the reality, the reality of their existence, of their parents, of the love that makes them families like any other. the problems created by the lack of a law to protect them are compounded by the obstacles created by an inhuman and senseless choice, which is already pushing the mayors in italy to create further discrimination between families and families, between children and children, when instead only their rights should prevail, and always. my colleagues and i, along with the commissioner in her work, will use all the legislative tools at our disposal to defend the citizens from your hateful rhetoric and there will be consequences for your actions. playing on children's skins is a choice that will not be forgiven.
madam commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, debates like this show a lack of loyalty to the member states of the european union, which should show strict respect for national sovereignty in matters of exclusive competence, such as the regulation of children's registration in the civil register. the laws of our countries, our constitutions, provide us with a protection, an order. they are consistent with our culture, history, traditions and jurisprudence which have respected natural law and common sense. today, they want to force italy to comply with it. in this house there are those who want to make a clean sweep, throw us into the void without measuring the consequences that certain laws may have, in this case, on the most fragile: children, transforming them from subjects of law into objects of transaction, treating them as a commodity. this does not protect them, it exposes them; it exposes them to being objects of desire. being a father is not a right, it's a desire.
mr. president, i have to go. family law is rooted in the history, culture and social values of individual nations. it is a matter for the member states alone to decide what legislation the italian government, which was formed after the democratic elections, should adopt and on what principles it should operate its own registry system. it is subject to one member state: italy. the member states are entitled to take a stand on this matter, as italy or even hungary have done, on the basis of the christian-jewish value system. neither the european parliament nor any other union institution or any other member state of the union has the power to judge or intervene in this matter in any way. that's why we have contracts. we stand with the italian government, we stand with its decisions!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in italy, under the far-right government of giorgia meloni, there are many decisions which we do not share. but this is what we might call politics. but differences become unacceptable when you make ideology out of people's skin. they become even more unacceptable when ideology is made on the skin of our children. denying the rights of lgbt couples, in fact, as the italian government is doing, means creating heterosexual couples of the a-class and homosexual couples of the b-class. i now ask myself, ladies and gentlemen, whether it would not be better to use our time to guarantee rights for all, to remove the barriers to freedom of movement in europe, rather than to build up, each time, new walls of division and discrimination between european citizens on the basis of sexual orientation. it is a shame that the rights of children are being held hostage to the ideological flags that we have heard again tonight. because this is happening in italy and it has unfortunately also happened in this house, in violation of the international principles of the united nations in europe, as commissioner helena dalli has reminded us. that is what renew europe is fighting against and will always fight against.
mr. chairman, colleagues, these days on croatian national television, a cartoon is being shown in a children's program, showing a woman who is furious, removes the cross from her neck, leaves her husband, takes the children away and decides...
i’m terribly sorry to interrupt, but i’m getting a message that the sound is not very good for the interpreters. can i ask you to start again, and hopefully the sound improves?
mr. chairman, colleagues, these days on croatian national television, in a children's program, there is a cartoon showing a woman who gets angry, removes the cross from her door, leaves her husband, takes the children and decides to live a different life, becomes a lesbian, an abortion activist, and the climax is, of course, ... (the president interrupted the speaker.)
i’m really sorry, we will need to suspend for a minute because apparently the croatian interpreting booth is not well connected to the other language booths. i do apologise – this is not sabotage against croatian meps! you can trust me. we will suspend for a minute or two and then resume once the connection is established. thank you, and i do apologise. (the sitting was suspended at 20.15 for technical reasons.)
apologies, colleagues, we should now be able to resume. it was a general problem, none of the interpreters’ booths were hearing the room. so it was not just about croatian. we now continue with the debate on the commission statement on the rights of children in rainbow families and same-sex parents, in particular in italy.
if i could just say a few words to see if there's a translation. mr. chairman, colleagues, these days on croatian national television, in a children's program, there is a cartoon showing a woman who is angry, removes the cross from her door, leaves her husband, takes the children and decides on a different life, becomes a lesbian, an abortion activist, and the climax is, of course, when she opens a book by karl marx and experiences enlightenment. in addition, a young man is shown changing sex and this is equally shown as liberation and enlightenment. it's all part of your cultural war, and it's a war for our children, for the children of heterosexual parents, because biological children of homosexual couples do not exist, if i may say so, in the face of this notorious fact. so the family is a universal issue, and it is not the european parliament's responsibility to intervene, but the national parliaments' and you know that very well, so you bother us with this issue anyway. so history has shown and the future will show that your path is based on delusion and you have already led many good people astray by your propaganda selling delusions under the same name. in love and understanding we will continue to fight for the truth about man.
if i can respond ...
i’m sorry, it wasn’t a blue card, but it’s noted ...
if you allowed her to have a blue card, some kind of blue card, then i should answer, i suppose.
no, it was not a blue card, i’m sorry, during the catch-the-eye procedure you can’t have blue cards ...
sorry but what was that? yeah, i said there is no biological ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, that wasn't a blue card and there's no right to [... not heard] now, on to the subject. the family, according to our constitution, is made up of a man and a woman, a biological man, a biological woman. a biological woman who's a mother, and a biological man who's a father. this is the constitution of the republic of bulgaria. it's something that we've accepted and it's something that our nation has accepted by a majority. [speech is suspended for technical reasons.] ... so once again there is no translation? it is a clear sabotage! i insist to speak in my own language. sorry for that, but i will wait and ask you to solve this issue. thank you so much. so, ladies and gentlemen, i quote the constitution of the republic of bulgaria. you know what the constitution is, it's the fundamental law. according to the constitution of the republic of bulgaria, the family consists of a man and a woman, a biological woman, a biological man, a mother and a father. we believe that every child has the right to grow up in such a family, has the right to his biological mother and his biological father. it's our inner conviction. now, you may believe something different. you may wish your countries had different rules. we don't argue and we accept that. it is your right, every citizen in his own country to form the kind of family that the majority of the citizens in his country believe. but we insist that you respect our right as european and bulgarian citizens. and to make decisions in our own country about how we're going to organize our families and how we're going to raise our children! and we insist, and we strongly object, that you do not try to impose any other model on us. our family is from a biological mother and a biological father. you've decided something else for your countries. i don't mind, but don't make me accept outside dictates and outside pressure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am relieved that this subject has finally been put on the agenda today, but i am also deeply saddened. yes, because the violence and discrimination against rainbow families and lgbti people is becoming more dramatic every day in europe and in my country, italy. italian same-sex couples have fought a courageous and complex battle with judges and municipal administrations over the years, carving out small spaces for themselves to ensure a minimum form of recognition and protection. what we are witnessing is the latest in a series of actions by the italian government to further erode their rights, those of rainbow families and those of italian children. justice commissioner reynders has been very clear and unambiguous on this issue. member states must recognise children of same-sex parents for the purpose of exercising rights under eu law. as european citizens, we have a duty to resolve this issue without ideological exploitation and to stand in solidarity with the many rainbow families and the activists who have taken to the streets in recent weeks, urging the european union to use all the mechanisms at its disposal to ensure that italy complies with its obligations under european law. we cannot allow european values of equality and inclusion to be silently suppressed, threatened and finally erased. taking the rights of italian children hostage is not only politically absurd, it is also morally unacceptable. colleagues, friends, let's not leave them alone, because love is love, always and anyway.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you, and thank you, honourable members, for this very important debate. i referred to the need for the union and the member states to protect the rights of children without any kind of discrimination and, therefore, without excluding children with same sex-parents from this protection. like any other children, children with same-sex parents are entitled to a continuity of their parenthood within the union, to the protection of their fundamental rights, to an identity and a private and family life, and to benefit from inheritance, maintenance and other rights under national law in cross-border situations within the union. such protection in cross-border situations would be achieved under the commission proposal on the recognition of parenthood between member states. the proposal would do so respecting the competence, of course, of all member states in adopting their own rules on family law. but in adopting and applying their own rules on family law, member states should not forget their obligation of non-discrimination as a fundamental principle established in the eu treaties and in international law. i appeal to member states to open a dialogue on this fundamental matter in order to find appropriate solutions so that no child will be discriminated against.
the debate is over.
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on a matter of political importance (rule 172 of the rules of procedure).
mr president, we have proposed today a debate on concrete and urgent measures to mitigate the impact of the ecb's interest rate hike. unfortunately, the right wing, with the votes of the psd and cds members, and the far right voted against this proposal. while thousands and thousands of families in portugal, as in other countries, are faced with the strain of not being able to pay their rent, because of increases which in some cases have reached 65%, the european institutions are ignoring the reality that is being aggravated by your policies. in your silence is the people who endure, the people who pay the bank's profit. the families need concrete answers for yesterday. the measures required include: making bank profits bear the rises in interest rates, setting low maximum spreads, allowing the renegotiation of housing loans with a 35% effort rate as a reference, and protecting permanent own housing from foreclosure.
before closing the meeting let me apologise to every one of you for the technical difficulties to all colleagues but also the interpreters, whose fault it wasn’t but also had to work under hard conditions. we do hope that this will not happen again anytime soon.
the next hearing will take place tomorrow, thursday 30 march 2023 at 9.00 a.m. the agenda will be published and made available on the european parliament's website.
in writing. even if this measure fails to eliminate all forms of discrimination and the gender pay gap persists, it will now be more difficult for companies to conceal lower wages for women and even face financial penalties for doing so. transparency will be increased and employee representatives will be able to be involved in the correction. in particular, i welcome the fact that a worker who has suffered financial loss as a result of gender discrimination will be entitled to compensation from his employer.
in writing. the authors propose to combat gender discrimination in employment by means of bureaucratically and methodologically demanding comparisons of the 'value of labour' of employees in virtually all eu firms. i consider it an expensive solution, which will probably not lead to the desired result, but rather to a decrease in average wages through increased costs. i believe that solutions that remove the barriers that today lead to discrimination are more effective. for example, increasing access to nursery schools. because the costs of parenthood are still borne primarily by women. let's get rid of the discrimination in the market economy, let's not get rid of the market with it.
mr president, i have worked as a judge in slovakia for almost 40 years and i am opposed in principle to brussels interfering in the judicial systems of any nation state. on the other hand, i must state objectively that the evaluation report of slovakia for 2022 is objective. undue interference by non-governmental organisations in the appointment, undue activity or interference with the activities of judges, prosecutors. however, slovakia will soon hold parliamentary and presidential elections. i am confident that the new professional government and the new professional elected president will remove these grave facts. and if not, then the ministry of justice of the slovak republic will gradually become the ministry of ngos and civil society. and that's not good for slovakia, for the justice system.
mr president, it seems that the list of countries which are violating european values is gradually growing. it's not just hungary and poland as traditionally, but it's spain, malta and greece, and eventually more will come. in short, all the countries that reject the rainbow agenda or that take a harder line on immigrants. on the contrary, among the violators of the law, for example, is the current slovak government, which has decided to rule even a year after the appeal in parliament, which violates the constitution and goes totally against the will of the citizens. why would you do that? simply because slovak prime minister heger goes to brussels on his knees and obediently fulfils every wish, every order from the european commission. let's not lie to each other or to people. these rule of law reports have absolutely nothing to do with any respect or disregard for the law. it is pure politics and often the european commission is the closest thing to breaking legal principles or even european values.
in writing. it is right that we do not want to allow further deforestation and therefore the sale of products from deforested land, be it beef or soy, must be stopped. the ban on such practices is also a step in the right direction and should have come sooner. if we continue to buy products from deforested land, we will be directly responsible for seeing the much-needed amazon forest disappear before our eyes, as well as forests in south america and southeast asia. but we should finally think about whether we want to continue to tolerate the extraction of our forests for the production of biomass, because that too is deforestation in a way.
in writing. i consider forests to be partly a global public good and therefore support their global protection. but i think that public goods should be looked after by the priority states, which is what they're for. they should not massively delegate this care to businesses. i believe that a better solution is to incorporate environmental protection commitments into free trade agreements with third countries.
rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. mr president, i find it difficult to vote for and support this regulation at second reading. this is because, in my own understanding, each person is responsible for himself first. after taking care of himself, one of the highest goals is to start taking care of his family, his loved ones, the environment, his country, as one of the highest goals you can have. it's hard for me to imagine how a man who can barely pay his bills, who is wondering how to feed and clothe his children, who is barely fueling his car at these high fuel prices, can begin to think about nature and the planet and saving it. and by that i don't mean that i deny or don't believe that the future is green technology, that it's less dirty, that it's renewable energy. i think the art of governing -- whether it's a city, a country or something more like the european union -- is to be able to feel the social fabric, to listen to people, and when you set goals, to adapt them to what people are going through. we have rightly set ourselves high targets with the emissions trading scheme. before there was covid, before there was war, before there was 25% inflation, before there were high gas prices, before there were high store prices. that's why i believe that yes, we should achieve these goals, but at a pace that people can handle. because if you think that those who can't take care of themselves, take care of their families, will take care of the planet, i think we're wrong.
i apologise mr novakov, the english interpretation got lost for the last 20 seconds or so. all the interpretation, in fact. i think it was just for the final few seconds.
i am sorry, ms chaibi, it’s not allowed to bring these props to the rostrum. i do apologise.
mr president, anti-european political parties are gaining strength in many countries today and may be winning. the crises we have been through, but also the long-term corruption we are overlooking, are being recorded by forces that want to break down democracy both in the member states and here in europe. how can citizens who are struggling with high energy and food prices today trust democracy and the rule of law when, for example, in my country, slovakia, the governor of the national bank is a man convicted of corruption. corrupt politicians can be found in every member country, and even here at the european level. today, in many parts of europe, people face high energy bills, high food prices, and daily news of corruption. i am glad that in slovakia we have dealt with high energy prices by tracking them down, while in slovakia we are fighting corrupt politicians, which has resulted in many politicians being jailed. the battle for europe is ahead for the next few years. in every member country we must support those who fight corruption, not those who commit it. we must also offer much more for young people, the elderly and families with children, so that everyone feels that europe is there for them and not against them.
mr. chairman, until recently, the european commission has been smearing china wherever it could. we argued that it was an autocratic, undemocratic state that suppressed fundamental rights and freedoms, we awarded the sakharov prize to ilham tohtim. the chinese communists suddenly visited moscow, the us was afraid that they would stop fighting, and mrs von der leyen changed her rhetoric. quote: "china is a fascinating and complex mix of history and challenges". it's a hypocrisy as tall as the statue of liberty and the eiffel tower. mrs. von der leyen, i mean, this is hypocrisy. you would have earned the right to be at the head of nato's headquarters, and to be with our president, who would also fight all over the world to the death, you wretch. i wish china, i wish the people's republic of china, and all of china, including taiwan, zhongguo wan se!
mr president, french president macron, after his visit to china, said that europe needed more strategic autonomy and that it should not be a vassal of the united states. i don't usually agree with emmanuel macron, but this time i think he was right, because the current european policy doesn't make sense and is destroying europe. first, you got us into a conflict with russia because it's in the u.s. foreign policy interest. then you adopted devastating economic sanctions to make sure that we could, not that we had to, buy more expensive gas from the us. now, some of you are bringing us into confrontation with china because the u.s. sees china as a threat to its world domination. i don't know. instead of europe seizing the opportunities offered by developing asia, we look for, you look for, a threat or some enemy. soon we'll have sanctions against the whole world and the whole world will be isolated. but the world will not be isolated. we're the ones who end up isolated. it is high time, it is high time to put an end to this policy of confrontation.
president, ladies and gentlemen, this parliament, which is coming to an end, is marked by the green deal, by a pandemic and, of course, by the war in ukraine. all three indicate in their own way that it is very important that we have a consistent foreign and trade policy from a geopolitical point of view. we do that when it comes to ukraine, but unfortunately not when it comes to china. the cacophony of the past few weeks is shameful, mr high representative. let me be clear: it is not worthwhile to focus on short-term economic interests alone. it is about a consistent, values-based policy. it's not like china today isn't a dictatorship that tramples on human rights. let me be very clear about one thing - and i have to say that i agree with my friend guy verhofstadt, which is not always the case, but it is now - that the one-china policy is based on the fact that two systems are possible. let me be clear: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the taiwan question. in this respect, no cacophony can be tolerated.
dear president, dear colleagues, today we are at a crucial juncture in our relations with china. while we acknowledge china as a partner, competitor and systemic rival, our bilateral relations have become increasingly challenging in recent years. china’s recent assertive actions in the strait of taiwan and its ambiguous stance on the russian aggression in ukraine have further affected our relations. in this geopolitically volatile world, the european union must take a unified position on china while working closely with our transatlantic and pacific allies. i welcome the recent visit of president von der leyen to china as it underscores our commitment to maintaining an open and constructive dialogue with china. nevertheless, even as we seek to build stronger relations with china, we must remain steadfast in highlighting human rights abuses, maintaining a rules—based international order, and promoting fair trade and investment practices. the economy is important, but above all it is crucial that we stand behind our values.
mr president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is easy in principle to have a coherent strategy for eu-china relations. firstly, it is right that we define our strategic autonomy - whatever we may understand in detail - ourselves or independently, without being guided by the interests of our partners or non-partners. this means that we have to diversify our trade relations so that we are not blackmailed by anyone. a hard lesson to be learned from the russian war of aggression. another lesson - secondly - is that the eu can never, never be neutral and must speak with one voice when there is a military conflict or threat of conflict. the eu has yet to prepare itself to respond adequately to this. our main homework, we are not there yet. the status quo in the taiwan strait cannot be changed unilaterally or by the use or threat of force. these are the cornerstones of a coherent strategy of the eu and all its member states towards china. but we must all stick to it and we must not allow the strategy to be overshadowed by national interests.
mr president, mr high representative, mr vice-president, relations between portugal and china are the oldest and most enduring of any european state. we know very well the importance of dialogue and trade relations with china. but the boundless friendship with russia, the aggression and threats against taiwan, the treatment of the uyghurs, are issues that have to be on our agenda in our relationship with china. and so we must always face them with the attitude of president von der leyen, not the neutral attitude of president macron. we want strategic autonomy for europe, but our systemic rival is not the united states. our systemic rival is china. autonomy is therefore not a third way. europe will only be a truly strategically autonomous entity if it is an atlantic europe, a europe which cultivates euro-atlantic values. and that is why it is essential that we take a firm stand in defence of the international order, taiwan's integrity and human rights in relation to china.
mr president, dear mr borrell, dear vice—president of the european commission, colleagues, this debate is certainly not about two things: this debate is not about playing the blaming game and it is not about choosing sides, because we know our sides. we know our partners, we know our friends and we are working together with them. but this debate is certainly about the topic, the need, for a coherent strategy for the eu—china relationship, and we need the strategy, mr borrell. this was strongly suggested to you by many colleagues before me. i do agree with those saying that the eu—china relationship is of strategic importance, but we should be clear that china poses a challenge to the liberal order of today. the country is a global powerhouse and we need to address the challenges at stake together. first and foremost, the eu must prioritise its security interests in its relationship with china. we need to carefully assess the implications of chinese military activities in taiwan, but also to talk boldly about human rights. what china is doing in the xinjiang region with the uyghurs is completely unacceptable. i want to state that clearly from this house.
mr president, dear colleagues, there is a clear learning from current international development, and that is that democracies should stand together. and this learning is even more applicable towards china. china’s growth means really an economic opportunity, but china’s growth means also a serious threat in terms of military, in terms of critical raw material, in terms of its growing influence in international organisations. what to do? the answer is definitely european unity towards china’s expansion and our close cooperation with the us. the most important european actions should be firstly to protect taiwan; secondly to strengthen and modernise our defence capacities, particularly in terms of cybersecurity; and thirdly, to secure our supply chain of critical raw materials. ladies and gentlemen, the world is changing and we are able to shape it only based on our european unity, our cooperation among democracies and our position towards autocracies.
mr president, commissioner, high representative, what lessons has this legislature taught us? we cannot forget the sad scenes we saw at the height of the pandemic. what happened when we were dependent on chinese medical supplies is happening now with the energy crisis we're going through. china is accumulating and consuming fuel and causing price rises, while in europe we are struggling to increase our energy independence. the european union must strengthen its role as a geopolitical actor with a voice of its own. to achieve this, we must reduce our dependence on technology and the production of certain materials from abroad. let us learn the hard lessons of this legislature. the european union has the capacity to be an autonomous geopolitical actor. this does not mean that we should eliminate trade relations with china, but that we should balance them. this does not mean that each member state has no role to play, but that we must speak with one voice, with coordination, as mr borrell has rightly said today. and above all, we are aware that the european union must remain the world reference in democracy and respect for human rights.
mr president, in china, christians and other believers are being persecuted by the countless. uyghurs disappear into camps. illegal organ harvesting is still taking place. china is taking resources from all over the world wherever it can. and china imports a lot of oil from russia. so there are enough reasons for a european boycott against china. unfortunately, that is not possible, because even in this parliament there are more followers of the merchant than of the clergyman. trade with china is still a holy grail for many. we must therefore approach it differently, under the motto 'strengthen each other, buy european goods'. consumers must be made aware of the need to stop buying products from china. if you see anything on the shelf that was made in china: leave it, not buy it! in this way we will promote european autonomy, reduce our dependence on china and help our own producers. so, strengthen each other, buy european goods!
mr president, opening statement of high representative and commission president sum up well where is our relationship with china. it’s not easy listening and nice one. we have unbalanced economic relationship. we are depending on china raw materials, technologies and products. there are concerns about security, especially in the case of taiwan, and in the world of global politics, especially after russian attack on ukraine. we know that china is not playing on our favour. to correct current disequilibrium that was built over the decades by wrong policies we need to act now, and anyway, it will take many years to change it. to do it we need a consistent, clear and transparent eu policy that is not undermined by short—term interests of some member states. i hope this debate will help us to get to that soon, as we badly need it.
mr president, a comprehensive strategy for the european union in relation to china must necessarily be guided by realism, mutual respect, reciprocity and transparency. it is clear to everyone that relations with china are very complex, since it is both a necessary partner in jointly managing global challenges, a formidable economic competitor which must observe wto rules, and a systemic, political and strategic rival. the european union must therefore agree on a medium- and long-term strategy incorporating the three dimensions mentioned, with clear objectives which are compatible and complementary to those of our partners and allies, and with mechanisms for monitoring and monitoring their implementation. in the face of this reality, the union's leaders must act together and in unison. there is a lot of disagreement if the 27 of us are to move towards a common goal and a common vision of the role we must play in the world. china, for its part, has a great opportunity to prove that it is on the right side of history with russia's invasion of ukraine.
i do apologise to colleagues who have requested the catch-the-eye. we have to skip that because we are running late.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable high representative, madam minister, honourable members, i would like to thank you for this rich and vivid debate. it shows how timely it is. today’s debate clearly attests that the eu-china relationship must be seen in an increasingly complex geopolitical context. several speakers stressed chinas ambiguous position on russia’s war of aggression against ukraine. it hurts eu-china relations just as europe is deeply hurt by the war on its continent. on taiwan, the eu remains strongly opposed to any unilateral change of status quo in the taiwan strait, especially by use of force. its preservation has been a way for a peaceful development, economic growth and prosperity in the region. it is key to exercise restraint. tensions should be resolved through a meaningful and open dialogue. the eu will continue its efforts aiming to preserve peace and stability in the region. yet, despite the worsening political context, eu-china trade remains robust. total goods trade between the eu and china reached a total of eur 856 billion in 2022. it means eur 2.3 billion of trade every day. however, while overall beneficial, the eu-china economic relationship remains critically unbalanced. for instance, in 2022, the eu’s bilateral trade deficit with china reached an unprecedented level of eur 396 billion. as president von der leyen said, there is an urgent need to rebalance our relationship. we should seek more transparency, predictability and reciprocity. to achieve this goal, engagement with china will be key, including on trade irritants. the high-level dialogues on economy and trade, on environment and climate and on digital are valuable platforms for the engagement. it is, of course, important that they produce concrete results. it is a matter of credibility. finally, as the president emphasised today, the central part of our future china strategy must be economic de-risking. going forward, the eu’s objective is to avoid over dependencies on china. for example, the eu should not only depend on china for critical raw materials that are essential for the green and digital transition. it means diversifying sources of eu supplies, and this is very different from economic decoupling. the commission will put forward a new economic security strategy in the coming months. honourable members, to conclude, i fully agree with this house. to succeed in our relationship with china, europe must show a united stance. so i would like to thank the honourable members of this parliament for reemphasising this major point today.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on behalf of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to continue to use spanish. first of all, i should like to say that as a former president of the european parliament, it gives me great satisfaction to see this chamber so full. i congratulate the european parliament and thank you for the attention and the large number of people who are attending today. ladies and gentlemen, in this debate there have been many voices complaining about european cacophony, that is, the existence of several european voices that do not always say the same thing or in the same way. i think there are two reasons why this has happened. the first is that there are different views among the member states on our relationship with china. and that should not surprise us. it's like this. the aim of a common policy is precisely to bridge those differences to offer a common denominator, but that requires working together. and the second reason why this has happened, which many members have lamented, is because - yes, indeed - there have been failures of coordination between the european institutions and with the member states which could have been avoided. i think we must take note of what has happened, criticize ourselves and look for solutions in the future which require greater coordination between institutions and states. greater coordination between the institutions - the commission and the council - between the states and between the states and the institutions. there has also been a lot of criticism of president macron. i want to tell you that i have read in great detail the speech of the president of the french republic at the nexus institute in the hague, in which he develops the concept of 'strategic autonomy', and i think there are many absolutely europeanist, absolutely positive ideas with which i agree. we must continue to work on developing a concept which is not at all in contradiction with the transatlantic alliance and which does not in any way consist in seeking alternatives to our relationship with the united states or alternatives to nato. on the contrary, it is about making our transatlantic community stronger. it will be if we are too. and neither the united states nor nato can take responsibility for solving all the security crises affecting europe. we have to develop our own capabilities. as i said before, reducing risk is increasing autonomy. autonomy and dependence are two contradictory variables. to reduce risk is to increase autonomy. increasing autonomy is reducing risk. there are economic risks and there are political risks. alliances are only stable - and deserve the name of alliances - if they are balanced. if they're out of balance, they're not so much alliances, but other kinds of relationships. and we have to be strong as europeans, simply to make our transatlantic alliance stronger. we need to talk about economic security. but economic security is security. we can call it 'economic', but it is still security and is therefore an integral part of foreign and security policy. i am glad that the commission wants to work on this, but it cannot do it alone. it will have to rely on the member states, that is to say, on the council. let's avoid cacophony again, let's work together. an economic security strategy is a security strategy. let us not take the adjective instead of the noun: if it is a question of security, we will have to find a way to govern these new security policies. and in that parliament must play a fundamental role, because we are talking about a fundamentally political issue which affects our democracy and europe's place in the world.
that concludes the debate. written statements (rule 171)
madam president, commissioner, we are well past the winter, which we have managed to weather well beyond our expectations. gas reservoirs are still more than 50 percent full and the price is below 50 euros per megawatt hour. it would seem that we are out of the worst, but it is a misconception. all it takes is a harsher winter, drought and a lack of wind, and gas and electricity prices will skyrocket. we need to strengthen european resilience and strategic autonomy and we need to further develop renewable sources, but this must go hand in hand with the development of electricity storage. the current wind weather in europe is producing megawatts of energy that we cannot use, but without storage, we will lack it later. therefore, in addition to investing in battery storage, we must also develop hydrogen technologies. we need to step up our efforts and support for companies, investors and researchers in this regard. as rapporteur for the creation of the european hydrogen bank, i will do my utmost to create an efficient production chain linking producers and consumers. the price of hydrogen must be competitive and investments need the best possible return horizon, so not only will accelerating the development of photovoltaics, wind energy increase europe's energy security, but battery storage and hydrogen deserve the same attention and support.
mr. chairman, i think the arrest warrant for russian president putin issued by the so-called international criminal court proves the weakness of this court rather than its strength. because all the great powers of the world, all the great powers of the world do not recognize this court, whether it's the russian federation, or the united states of america, china, india, and even ukraine itself. the united states has gone so far in its contempt for this court that it has passed a law called the hague invasion act, which gives the u.s. government the authority to intervene militarily against the seat of this court in the hague in the event that this court detained an american citizen or an american soldier or accepted some politically motivated charge, like an arrest warrant, issued an arrest warrant for the american president. the court's zero authority only points to the fact that international law is in total disarray and the great powers do as they please. all the more so does the world need a return to a new international order.
for the renew group. madam speaker, imagine that one day the authorities tell you that you must not eat the eggs of your hens, drink the water from your well, or water your garden, that you must not eat anything from your garden, not even those strawberries that you and your children have been looking forward to, because your soil contains substances that interfere with the development of their reproductive system and can cause autism. you'll realize you've been eating them for years. this is the reality in some parts of europe, including slovakia. and not just contamination: 7.5% of young people in slovakia have elevated levels of pfas in their blood, non-destructible toxic substances. we're still not really addressing the root cause of these problems. instead, we suffer the consequences. from the toxic disaster, the pfas contamination in antwerp, to the pcb in eastern slovakia. and all around, because these chemicals are found even in the high mountain dunes of the slovak tatras. we knew they were a problem, but we didn't act. the causes of this disaster must be finally removed. toxic chemicals like pfas need to be replaced, and we can't do that without new rules for chemicals. the ball is now in the commission's court and people all over europe are following.
madam president, whether or not the digital euro is in place, the right to cash payments must remain. i mean, what would it mean to go all-digital? on the one hand, completely uncontrolled digital currencies pose serious risks of money laundering, terrorist financing, coups d'état or war. on the other hand, over-controlled digital currencies can be used by governments to monitor their citizens, to control citizens, to force people to buy only the right things, or worse, if necessary, to simply enable inconvenient citizens to turn off their digital money with a single click, literally and figuratively. just think of the protesting canadian truckers who had their private money blocked by the canadian government during covid, and the only thing that saved them was cash. this is why cash must continue to be preserved not only as a means of payment but above all as an instrument of personal freedom for citizens.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it's good to have you with us today. as you rightly said, the ipcc report made it very clear a few weeks ago that the damage and irreversible losses caused by climate change have increased significantly. and these effects continue to accelerate. from 2006 to 2018, sea levels have risen on average almost three times faster than in the first half of the 20th century. and that's why the effects of climate change are no longer a problem for some future generation, but they're a problem here and now. we have made historic climate decisions in the european parliament this week. they are urgently needed because the ipcc has also made clear that already more than three billion people live in regions of the world that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change. but it is also clear - and the message from the scientists is clear - that our current efforts are not enough. instead of meeting the 1.5 degree target, we are moving towards 3 degrees of global warming with the current global targets. this is a disaster! for europe, such a scenario would mean that harvests in the south, for example, could fall by more than 30% 30%! . at the same time, every degree increases the risk of tearing irreversible climate tipping points where we don't know what's going to happen next. but beyond that, scientists agree: to make the effects of climate change as manageable as possible, substantial and lasting savings are needed as soon as possible and at least within this decade. and here we are, in demand, again this week. we cannot and will not stop at climate policy, but we must continue. and this goes particularly to the european commission, as i made clear in the debate on monday: we need science-based targets for 2040. and i would ask the commission once again to listen to the scientific advisory board, which we have imposed here in the european parliament by a majority. because that is important to keep europe alive. listen to the science!
for the renew group. mr president, mr commissioner, perhaps we thought we would leave it to the next generation, that it would not concern us. that even some glaciers, polar bears - that's far away. no, it's here and now. and scientists have been saying that, scientists have been saying that for years. now we hear it again. the climate crisis is growing into a climate catastrophe. already, much of europe is facing drought, the alps have just not had snow, asia is experiencing extreme heat, and the solution is in our hands. the solution is not that we need to subsidize and subsidize and subsidize. the solution is actually a great business. the solution is nature, and the solution is freedom, which will free us from dependence on the supposed transit fuel and gas, into which we have trapped ourselves. the solution is to have the sun on every roof, to harness the wind that blows, to harness the energy of the earth that we walk on, and to stop throwing logs at them. the solution is to give energy back to the people and make it in everyone's interest that not only future generations, but we ourselves, have a chance at a normal life.
mr president, we are on track to exceed 1.5 degrees in the next decade and 2 degrees by mid-century. of the 15 massive ecosystem tipping points that will be exceeded at two degrees, some of them are dangerously within sight. and yet we are only at around 1.1 degrees of warming. the ipcc finds that all pathways that effectively limit warming depend on some quantity of carbon removal. many carbon—removal interventions are already well known: strict protection of forest, agroforestry, peatland rewetting, holistic grazing. they require concerted public—sector efforts to become widely adopted. others must be tested and if found effective, funded and deployed at scale in the next few years. we critically need to avoid tendencies where the role of carbon storage in ecosystem is purposefully devaluated only to further justify the mass use of forest biomass. we need effective solutions and we need them now. no time to hesitate.
madam president, commissioner, there are huge differences between member states in the way aid is granted to firms through the de minimis subsidy scheme. although the aid amounts to relatively small amounts, up to a maximum of eur 200 000, the possibility of benefiting from this aid offered to each undertaking over a period of three years differs from one member state to another. no doubt this is related to the financial condition of the country, but the truth is that such aid is needed most in poor or remote regions. slovakia, the country i come from, is at the very tail end of providing this aid to businesses. it is one of the countries with the lowest rate of granting such aid. in other words, the poorer countries of the european union offer this support to businesses to a much lesser extent than the richer countries. however, businesses today face many challenges, especially in less developed regions with low levels and high unemployment, as their growth has been hit by the war in ukraine after the economy was restarted in the post-covid period. this has caused an increase in energy and other input prices that these companies are having difficulty coping with. any help is a lifeline for them in these times, for them and for their employees, whose very existence depends on their functioning. in this context, i would like to ask the european commission what steps it is considering taking to encourage the poorer member states to make much greater use of the abovementioned subsidies scheme for cohesive development, while, of course, taking into account and respecting the principle of subsidiarity. at the same time, let me add that it is desirable and timely to raise its ceilings in the light of all the events that have taken place in recent years.
mr president, europe is facing a serious problem. in addition to the consequences of the pandemic, the war in ukraine, energy prices are also burdened by an ageing population and relatively expensive green policies, which together will lead to an increase in public spending of more than three percent of gdp per year. member states should therefore in principle be in budgetary surpluses today if they are to be prepared to meet the 3% deficit ceiling. the euro area needs clear fiscal rules to preserve itself, rules that are simple, effective and rigorous. policy objectives must be subject to fiscal constraints and not vice versa. let us be reminded that the combination of ambitious targets, divorced from the fiscal restraints that we have cultivated, and not only we, since the start of the pandemic, has resulted in the accumulation of new public debts and the highest rate of inflation in the eurozone.
in writing. one can certainly agree with german chancellor olaf scholz that we need a european union that is geopolitical, enlarged and reformed. but i personally do not see a reform of decision-making such as the abolition of the veto as a suitable way to achieve this goal. the eu has a long history of supporting the right of the slovak people to selfdetermination. i am pleased that the german prime minister has made a speech on europe day in the european parliament in strasbourg, france, which can be considered a good symbol.
madam president, why don't you just leave europe with its gender ideology, please? the slovak republic has refused to ratify the istanbul convention. i was a member of the slovak parliament, i voted against it and i'm proud of it. and you're trying to force it on us now by putting it to a vote at the level of the european union. i consider that just rude. feminists here are saying that the istanbul convention should be accepted because violence against women is on the rise. but violence against women is also increasing in countries where the istanbul convention is in force, so it has nothing to do with that. we reject the istanbul convention because the female gender is defined by gender. that a man is considered a woman. (interruption due to a translation problem) i am talking about the fact that the slovak republic refused to ratify the istanbul convention, and i was a member of the national council, or slovak parliament, at the time, and i voted against ratifying the istanbul convention. and i'm proud of that vote, because it sounds like we simply disagree. it has nothing to do with, of course, wanting to reject or support some kind of violence against women or something like that. of course not. i'm not going to. the problem with the istanbul convention is that women are defined there by gender, that is, by gender, and not by biological sex. and we simply refuse to see the future of women as, in the popular sense, men in disguise. because for me, a woman is always a woman. and no resolution of parliament or the istanbul convention is going to change that. the feminists here were talking about the need to ratify the istanbul convention to prevent violence against women. but you see that violence against women is, and even in some countries, is increasing. even in those countries where the istanbul convention is in force. so it has nothing to do with it, and it's not even preventable in that way. it's always about upbringing, about social maturity and, of course, about social respect. but people must be guided to do so, not ordered to do so by european parliament resolutions.
madam chairman, i beg your pardon. every one of you who has had to experience violence because we take it so hard to act. i'm sorry that your pain and suffering has become the subject of populism and lies. sorry we couldn't make you feel safe. i'm sorry that in slovakia the convention on violence against women is made a scarecrow. we need gender equality, we need protection from violence against women. it is extremely tragic that we are still not doing enough to protect women and girls. we're not doing enough to be able to help them sensitively when they experience violence. so they're not afraid to tell the authorities. because it's a problem to talk about it for them. so i am pleased that we are finally ratifying the convention on violence against women as the european union. and he will do everything to ratify it and implement it in slovakia. no woman should have to worry about her safety just because she's a woman.
member of the commission,on behalf of the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members, the debate today testifies to your continued interest and engagement on sudan. an implosion of the third largest country in africa with a key strategic location in the sahel and the red sea is something no one can afford. let me stress once again that the eu will continue its diplomatic outreach, and our messages are very clear: immediate cessation of hostilities and secured humanitarian access; de—escalation of the current situation; urging for the respect of international humanitarian law and the protection of civilians and diplomatic premises; putting the political process back on track; all efforts, properly coordinated, are welcome to seek ways to support dialogue and mediation in order for a return to a civilian—led transition; external actors should refrain from fuelling the conflict. we shall continue insisting on: the importance of obtaining security guarantees from the warring parties to be able to deliver the much—needed assistance; the importance to remove the bureaucratic and administrative impediments by de facto authorities so that the aid workers can return to the country without significant delays, the importance of defining the humanitarian needs and redefining the future humanitarian architecture set up in the country. the coming days and weeks are essential, and we urge the european parliament to continue its engagement with sudan and the region.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. nearly 500 people have been killed in sudan in nearly a month of armed clashes. 200 children have lost their lives so far! 330,000 have left their homes, adding to the more than one million refugees already in sudan! this is happening in the face of forces that have so far played a role in maintaining relative stability in the country. the crises of recent years - the coronavirus pandemic, the conflict in ethiopia, the protracted disaster in syria and, not least, the war in our neighbour - have depleted the eu's humanitarian budget. we simply cannot afford another protracted crisis! we need a permanent solution. that's why the foreign service, in cooperation with the member states and our regional partners, must use every means possible to bring the warring parties to the negotiating table as soon as possible. action must be taken, and fast, because the situation in the region can trigger a new wave of migration at any time. the african union, which has repeatedly demonstrated its ability to mediate armed conflicts in africa, can play a particularly important role in finding a solution. the period ahead of us should be about promoting security in africa. without security, there is no development. strengthening security cooperation should therefore be at the heart of cooperation between the european union and developing countries.
the next item is the debate on the report by vladimír bilčík, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the 2022 commission report on serbia [2022/2204(ini)] (a9-0172/2023).
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, let me start by expressing my deep condolences to all the families, but also the people of serbia, for the terrible events which took place last week in belgrade and mladenovac: the mass shootings. these tragic events are really something which moved not just the people in serbia, in the region, but also here in the european parliament. let me assure everyone in serbia that just like the members of this house stood with the people of serbia yesterday, they will also continue to stand with the people of serbia in these difficult times. when we look back at 2022 and we look at the report, it was a very complex year. it was a very complex year for europe; it was a very complex year for serbia as well. let me start with the internal developments and the key findings there. my report does welcome the adoption of measures on improving the electoral conditions ahead of the april 2022 elections, as a result also of the inter-party dialogue, which was co-facilitated by the european parliament, and the overall conduct of elections. especially let me underline the return of the opposition to the serbian national assembly. i think politically this was an important moment in terms of last year, but also when we look back at the past few years. this is important for serbia, serbian democracy and serbian politics. i do look forward to continuing now the conduct of the parliamentary dialogue process with the serbian parliament already in june this year when we plan to meet in belgrade. the report also notes certain improvements on serbia’s path into the european union. but let me say fundamental decisions are needed for fundamental progress. this is the basic message of the report. these concern the area of domestic reforms, particularly when it comes to rule of law, the strengthening of the judiciary, fight against organised crime and corruption, and strengthening of the independent media environment. indeed, we spend a lot of time discussing this issue in our report and we will continue to pay full attention to this point. it is also essential that the dialogue between belgrade and pristina not only continues, but also brings results. here i should like to underline that we have to be engaged, but we also have to be engaged in an equidistant manner. in this sense, i know there are some amendments which have come to this plenary. i do regret to say that some of these amendments, unfortunately, are not as equidistant as they should be. it is the responsibility of both belgrade and pristina to make sure that the normalisation of relations moves forward. what has been the biggest game changer, however, in terms of last year, is russia’s brutal attack against ukraine. the basic message of the report is that serbia must align with the european union: align its positions but also align with the restrictive measures. last year was a game changer for enlargement. we had three additional candidate countries open up accession talks with two countries, and i hope serbia and our partners in serbia can seize the opportunity. it should be seen as an opportunity. there is a new momentum when it comes to enlargement, and we want serbia to stand with us, to work with us, to align with us, and to move ahead on its european path. let me say, at the end, it has been an honour to serve as the standing rapporteur of this house on serbia. this is my last report in this term. i want to thank all the shadows. it has been an intense but, in the end, good cooperation. i very much look forward to this exchange of views.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, today’s debate recalled once again our joint commitment to serbia’s eu path. i want to thank to your points in this regard. i want to mention two particularly important points that were raised in the debate. the first is on the need for strategic communication about the eu advantages. and the second, the presence of third countries and their influence in the region. i fully agree with the importance of having clear communication regarding the eu path and the support the eu delivers and is delivering in the region and for the region. in this regard, let me give you one positive and rather good example that serbia has just introduced, which is a message on the electricity bill of all the people and citizens in serbia that highlights the eu grant support that was paid to those bills and to modernise the energy sector. it is written on all the bills that people receive in serbia, ‘eu for you. through the energy support package, the european union helps vulnerable families and small- and medium-sized enterprises to cope with the energy crisis, improves energy security and serbia’s transition towards green energy.’ this is on the bills of each and every household in serbia. when it comes to the presence of third countries in the region, we also have positive examples, like the most important transport infrastructure project in the balkans and in serbia, which is the belgrade–niš–skopje railway modernisation. this is the so-called corridor x railway, which serbia has decided to build in cooperation with the eu instead of accepting a huge offer from a third country, which was china. this is a major investment that the eu is supporting with eur 2.2 billion in a financial package, which includes our cooperation with the eib and the ebrd and which, by president vučić, has been called the best offer ever on the table. so we count on serbia as a sincere european partner to stand with us and for our common values and for our common interests, our security and prosperity. on the commission side, we will continue to do all we can to speed up serbia’s pace of negotiations and to support the eu perspective of the western balkans as a whole, both politically and financially.
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner, thank you for your kind words and dear colleagues for this rich exchange of views. let me just say that european union enlargement is a political process. it’s a political choice, and serbia has now made a choice. and we praising that choice also in this report. the choice is very clear. serbia wants to join the european union. it is serbia’s choice. it is the choice that serbian political leadership has committed itself to. it is the choice that people in serbia do want to pursue. i think we are here to encourage that choice and i hope we can work together in these difficult times to make sure that there is progress on the way. let me make a couple of points which reflect also on the discussion, but also on what i see as key variables when it comes to making that choice happen. one is the reconciliation with the past. and i say this is somebody who has been intimately engaged in serbia with serbian politics for the past four years. as long as the wars of the 1990s remain the defining point for serbian politics, i do believe that that european choice of serbia and by serbia is going to suffer. i think reconciliation in that sense is key to moving forward. i also hope that serbia can catch the new geopolitical train, the geopolitical train defined by russia’s brutal aggression. it has changed europe, it has changed enlargement, it has changed political dynamics. i hope that serbia can adjust to this fully. it cannot afford to miss another train, and we are here to support that process, which is not easy. the process of important political choices that are very much in line with serbia’s own choice to join the european union. dear colleagues, we stand with serbia, with the people of serbia in these difficult moments, and i very much look forward to your support for this report in tomorrow’s vote. i very much look forward to bringing this report to the people of serbia, to the political discussion in serbia. i know it’s not going to be easy, but i am always ready to engage and to discuss any points because i think that is the only way. i hope we can continue this dialogue in this house and also with our partners in serbia.
for the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, i am pleased that after the year of youth, we have the european year of skills. it is also an excellent opportunity to realise that there is still a huge mass of people in europe who have not been given any practical experience, no practical skills by the education systems. i want to commend you for bringing attention to the very skills that we can hardly function without in this modern world. it is right that at european level we are trying to guide the member states to make the most of all the human potential that we have available in europe. however, some of our education systems are failing to prepare many europeans for the labour market in the long term, despite labour shortages. they can't teach them the skills that are key to getting a job. some member states simply have not taught individuals anything, depriving them of the opportunity to engage in society, to build democracy, to seize the opportunities of the green or digital transformation. in other words, they were not given the opportunity to exercise their rights. these are mainly europeans who live in poverty and whose rights have been restricted since childhood. many of the union's poor are now out of work, and yet they could be excellent workers in construction, agriculture or industry. i am thinking, for example, of roma children who come out of education systems without any knowledge, and even without any practical skills, just because our schools have not been able to teach them these skills. we're wasting them, but we're wasting our potential. this waste and the resulting social assistance costs us far more than the investment in building their expertise or skills. ladies and gentlemen, let us also use the year of skills to find the courage to ensure that everyone, including the poorest and the roma, in europe, acquires the skills that will make them feel like full citizens of the european union.
madam president, the ever-changing labour market requires new skills from workers. the commission has launched the european year of skills, which aims to promote training, upskilling and attract talent to the european union. the success of this project is measured by the number of events and other outputs, which is not sufficient. the increase in workers' productivity due to the european year of skills should be measured. for example, it is necessary to measure whether public funds invested in capacity building are returned to the state budget through taxes and levies, such as successful graduates. better measured projects will also bring us more results.
in writing. i think it is right to limit the cases where products that are harmful to the environment are labelled 'green'. for example, paper shopping bags are advertised as being 'greener' than plastic shopping bags, even though they are not. however, the proposal also requires manufacturers to put a lot of new information on the packaging of products in order to extend the shelf life of the products. these amendments do not contain an impact assessment in the draft, so it is not clear that they do not disproportionately favour products, and i could not therefore support the proposal. in many cases, repairability is not the reason for throwing products away. for example, according to an article in the economist, people don't throw away textiles because they are unrepairable, but because they are out of fashion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the directive is good, but regarding the woody biomass, i have to be critical. what started as a policy construct in 2009 on how the large scale burning of wood is sustainable and allegedly does not result in carbon emissions only continues with the recast of this directive. the text strengthens the sustainability criteria on burning woody biomass yet it allows massive derogations. with this directive, massive burning of wood will continue, and heavy subsidies will continue, and member states will still claim that they protect the climate by burning more and more of the wood. it negatively affects the wood processing industry and market competition, and it will trigger large-scale deforestation in the last complex remnants of the primary forests of the carpathians. this directive introduced rules with loopholes only to satisfy the growing demand for wood of an industry built around very harmful greenwashing. we are burning down the forest whose biodiversity, resilience and capacity to withstand climate change are by no means renewable.
in writing. i have reservations about this legislation because the transition to renewable energy sources must have realistic targets so that it does not harm industry, jobs or even households. the target of 42.5% of all energy in the eu coming from renewable sources by 2030 is too ambitious, but it is good for slovakia that it is not a mandatory quota for the states as well. slovakia already has 90% of its emission-free electricity production, but it is produced mainly from nuclear energy, which unfortunately is not considered a green source in this legislation. the conditions are good for the development of biomethane, which can replace up to 10% of natural gas consumption, but in this case it will be used mainly in transport, heating and the chemical industry, and not for energy production. the basic premise for a faster transition to renewable energy sources will also be the simplification and acceleration of permitting procedures, which should also be addressed at the european level, while the legislation approved today will still leave the state with a lot of control over the permitting process, so i am skeptical whether it will be possible in slovakia, where its duration is three times longer than in hungary, for example.
mr. president, in a few days slovakia will hold crucial parliamentary elections which will decide whether slovakia will remain a democratic country or whether it will be stolen from us by the mafia from the smer who, together with the fascists from the republic, want to make slovakia an island of dictatorship and fascism in the heart of europe. from covid to the war in ukraine, inflation, the energy crisis, their messages are full of lies and manipulation. they didn't even miss the current illegal migration to scare and piss people off. they're spreading hate to campaign on refugees in elections. however, it should be recalled that the current increased illegal migration in slovakia can also be attributed to robert fico himself, who in 2018 introduced the issuance of certificates under the smer governments, which today attracts refugees to slovakia. fico and the fascists even blocked the slovak parliament today to prevent the cancellation of their own invention, the refugee certificate that slovakia issues as the only country in the union. it's clear evidence that they're not looking for solutions, and they're looking for votes in elections. colleagues, colleagues, europe must overcome this crisis as soon as possible to prevent mafia and fascist politicians from coming to power in slovakia, as in any other country in europe.
in writing. the euro 7 proposal lacks basic impact analyses. for example, the proposers did not analyse the impact of the new rules on slowing down the exchange of old cars for new ones. this slowdown would lead to environmental degradation. it would be more effective (for example, with tax policy) to focus on replacing old (most polluting) cars with modern cars rather than toughen up the limits on modern cars, since the emissions savings between euro 6 and euro 7 are not large, so the price difference is likely to be large. i am convinced that for one euro invested in replacing old cars with new ones we would have eliminated more tonnes of co2 than for one euro invested in tightening standards for new cars.
madam president, i agree that elections are essential to the functioning of every state. i agree that international observation missions, the osce, the un, the european union should participate in election observation in each country. to participate in election observation in states that we refer to as states with an illiberal political system, as states that are autocratic. it is not possible for elections in the russian federation to take place on 17 september 2021, and the european commission adopted or the european union adopted a resolution on 16 september that the elections will be undemocratic. and we didn't send any observers there. that's not how it's done. and that's how we're doing with states like belarus, venezuela, the crimea referendum. we're not going to the election as observers because they say it's undemocratic. and then we're surprised that in these countries, domestic observers are being created, where they're being called in by observers from non-standard foreign missions. i can't say that julia roberts is sitting behind me, not mrs. metsola, unless i can be sure that mrs. metsola or julia roberts is actually sitting behind me.
madam president, the concerns about the threat of the rule of law in slovakia have become reality. after the election, justice in my country got a red flag. he won fico, teamed up with pellegrino and dank. the government of the mafia, the thieves, the hoaxers and the extremists has come. the new home secretary has begun a shameful, ostentatious and highly unacceptable cleanup of the police. she started revenge on the police who investigated corruption during the previous sight and voice governments. a period of persecution and a manhunt has begun for the police investigating the corruption of fica, pellegrini, danko and their friends. the mafia government is back. today, slovakia is ruled by corrupt politicians who were or are still prosecuted. politicians who clean up the police today just to save their own backs. and that's how the investigation is going. it seems that slovakia has forgotten the deaths of jan kuciak and his martina. we've forgotten about political murder, the mafia, the system of impunity of the chosen people. now it's up to all of us to watch the interventions against the rule of law in slovakia. to keep us from being silent, we have put fear on the side of justice.
for the ecr group. madam president, the eu's first objective for next generation was to mitigate the socio-economic impact of the pandemic. that's my first comment. the implementation process has shifted to the goals of digitalisation and the green deal. the resources were later used to address the energy crisis and to ukraine. this is rather a sign that the objectives of this package were not entirely clear from the outset. obviously, there was no need to create such a large fund to address the impact of the pandemic when the money was eventually used for other purposes. the real objective was apparently to increase the rate of redistribution. the result will now be an increase in the tax burden on the member states of the european union and a new form of european taxes that will be burdensome not only for the rich but also for the poor. second note. taxes should be introduced when it is effective and where their collection is effective with the least possible damage to the economy. the renowned bruegel institute identifies only european emissions trading as an appropriate european tax among the commission's proposals. third note. i prefer direct payments by the member states to new taxes because it is more transparent. one last note. all other projects that increase the tax burden must undergo dramatically better impact analyses than the first next generation eu.
madam president, we are one of the richest regions in the world and yet we are starving millions of our children. in roma settlements in several member states, young children fetter toluene, which their parents buy them to keep them from feeling hungry. they live in huts without drinking water and they crawl their limbs in their own and dog excrement because they have no sewer. many end up segregated in special schools and never learn to read or write. we have learned this during our delegation to the european parliament in roma settlements in slovakia. some of the european commissioners were so shocked by our findings that they asked me how slovakia could have kept this secret for so long. we weren't hiding anything. the commission is often only satisfied with quantitative statistics on paper. children can be talked about emotionally, but politicians prefer to focus on pensioners because unlike children, retirees can vote. it is the eu's duty to force member states and populist politicians to invest in children. there are not enough compulsory child guarantee funds or action plans, because they are still just promises and words on paper. we need real monitoring, no quantitative statistics. the child guarantee has five million specific faces and we must ensure that each of those child faces of the member states' governments improves their lives.
madam president, the new right to repair is to guarantee the repair of a mobile phone or washing machine, for example, for life. in particular, the manufacturer will have to produce all spare parts and all repair tools necessary throughout the product life. however, the proposed measure may not be ecologically or economically advantageous, as the production of all spare parts is an order that does not reflect market demand. if some components are not damaged at all but have to be produced and stored for years, such an obligation will of course overpricing the product at the expense of the consumer. the consumer-friendly solution is a high-quality competitive environment that does not motivate manufacturers, such as long-replaced fax machines, to produce and store all spare parts and which, on the contrary, motivates manufacturers to reduce red tape.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, allow me to thank you again for this very rich debate. tackling barriers to repair is a major challenge, as these barriers are complex and require pragmatic solutions. but today’s debate once again confirmed that we are on the right path, and this is what truly europeans want. the proposal discussed today is an important step towards creating a right to repair for eu consumers, as it makes repair easier and more attractive, and the commission stands ready to facilitate an agreement between the co-legislators during the trilogues.
the report is not yet available. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. i would like to thank the commissioner for his support and, above all, for the broad support that this debate has shown here in this house from right to left. this is a clear message to the council, which we should also ask the council to take home. i would like to go into one aspect, however; the commissioner mentioned it in his first contribution, this link with ecodesign. yes, it is true. the market has failed in large parts and produced products that cannot be repaired. in the event of such a market failure, the legislator must intervene by providing product specifications in the form of eco-design. but: a consumer right, an individual right like the right to repair, that must not depend on market failures. the right to repair must actually cover all products. i understand why the commission proposed the tightening, and i have followed it in part, but the right to repair is not a worm's-eye extension of eco-design. there are products that can be repaired without any legal requirements. and should such a product not be subject to a right to repair? i mean, no. we are therefore putting bicycles in the annex as parliament. because the bike market, that's the dream market. we have products that are perfectly repairable. we have a good-functioning repair network. consumers decide to repair. everyone here can see what it's supposed to look like. and that's the vision we should be working towards. secondly, let me get on with the form. the commission wanted all companies to provide very extensive information about themselves. this has led many small-scale repairers to find small-scale repairs no longer of interest because the burden of bureaucracy is far too great compared to the cost estimate for the neighbour around the corner. and in that respect, it is true that whoever wants to use it can use the opportunity, but whoever does not want to, will not be deterred from the repair. that's why i'm taking the suggestion of sandro gozi. we, the parliament, must negotiate with the council here hard because there is still much to be negotiated. i therefore hope that tomorrow i will have a large, broad majority so that i can stand before the council with a broad cross and negotiate a good result with the support of the commission.
the discussion is over. the vote will be held on tuesday 21 november 2023. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 of this regulation.
in writing. i'm dedicated to consumer protection all my political activities. i welcome any change that gives consumers the option of easier repair of goods. in this case, even after the guarantee expires. if the circular economy is to be truly attractive, we need to strengthen all its components, from the availability of spare parts to the choice of a repair option for a positively motivated consumer.
it's in writing. the promotion of the repair of purchased goods is contrary to consumer expectations. over the past few decades, we've fallen into the trap of a consumption model where we don't fix anything, and if an agd or a cell phone goes down, we throw it in the trash. it's a waste we can't afford anymore. i am pleased that the european parliament is proposing an ambitious but at the same time realistic and practical position. as a counter-legislator in the environment committee, i pointed out that we must strike a balance between legislation that will promote consumers' right to repair and ensure that new solutions are based on clear and stable legal frameworks and that the burdens imposed on producers are adequate and proportionate to their added value. the success of new initiatives is ultimately determined by consumer habits and attitudes, and therefore particular emphasis should be placed on education and information. i also pointed out that there is still discrimination between member states: it happens that a product purchased abroad is not repaired in our country or that the same agd manufacturers in the same country offer the same models of equipment for sale on different warranty terms. i consider this unacceptable and regret that the final text did not articulate this problem more clearly.
the commission will also consider the possibility of a new proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a union certification framework for carbon elimination (com(2022) 0672 c9-0399/2022 2022/0394(cod)) the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 of this regulation.
mr. president, our efforts to protect the planet and clean air must not only be limited and banned, but we must also appreciate those who are trying to help. not only do we limit emissions because we can't, but we also limit the capture of those emissions. these carbon capture certificates, which will be rewarding for the effort, i think are a good way out of this. however, i agree with the rapporteur of the agri committee that we must not risk replacing food farming with carbon capture farms. i think the proposal is positive, however, because if we can reach a proper agreement in dialogue, we can get more own resources into agriculture, for example, as a reward for supporting reforestation and care for land and forests. i believe that since it is a matter of using scientific methods for calculating and binding carbon, it will be an objective and true calculation. i also believe that such a move will support further research that could open up new possibilities for dealing with the negative effects of not only carbon but also other harmful emissions. carbon certificates will allow funding for projects to reduce not only co2 but also other greenhouse gases, and that is why i support this proposal at the moment.
member of the commission. – mr president, may i thank the rapporteur once again and also all the various speakers, which i think once again solidifies the tremendously important work that has been done. the way i view it is that with this next step, we are truly exploring the full depth and breadth of the solution space as we should. so i wholeheartedly thank all the various members that are on the verge of of ok’ing this proposal for taking this step and moving beyond ideology and really looking at what is necessary to, again, get to an additional piece in making more work of climate action. so thank you very much and, once again, thank you very much to the rapporteur, her team and the excellent work that has been done.
the discussion is over. the vote will be held on tuesday 21 november 2023.
the commission will also consider the possibility of a new programme to be implemented in the future, with the aim of promoting the development of a new programme of action to promote the development of the european union's biodiversity.
member of the commission. – mr president, i am learning every single day but now i also learned that not only there is such a thing as the catch-the-eye procedure, but there is also such a thing as taking over the debate from someone else. and i have the privilege to be here in the place of commissioner sinkevičius, and i was delighted to listen to the contributions just a couple of minutes ago. let me now start by underlining that the european eel is critically endangered and urgent actions are needed to recover – as was so eloquently put – this iconic species. the recovery of the eel is therefore one of the commission’s key priorities under its fisheries and environmental policies. in this context, the commission welcomes this report, which deals with important aspects of the protection and sustainability of the eu stock. the commission agrees that the eu regulation provides for a holistic framework to address all human impacts on eels in all habitats, be it marine or freshwater. however, in light of the scientific advice already since a number of years, the eu’s fish enclosures are crucial to support the rebuilding of the stock. beyond these fisheries management measures, more needs to be done on the environmental side, in particular to tackle pollution and obstacles to migration coming, for instance, from hydropower. therefore the implementation of the water framework directive, marine strategy framework directive, habitats directive and biodiversity strategy are so important. as this is a migratory species occurring in eu, and only eu, waters, we work with our regional and international partners to ensure a coordinated approach, in particular under the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. in this context, let me highlight that exports and imports of european eels to the eu are prohibited, but still happen through asian markets. therefore improved traceability is key for the fight against illegal, unreported and also unregulated fishing and in the fight against illegal trade. i can reassure you, ladies and gentlemen, that the commission follows up with member states to improve the implementation of the eu regulation, as well as environmental legislation to ensure a future for the european eel and for those who depend on it for their livelihood. the commission agrees with you that appropriate conservation and management measures for eels need to be truly comprehensive and need to take into account all three pillars of sustainability, namely environmental, economic and social impacts. also improved data collection and scientific advice – in this field, as in many others – will support decision-making more effectively. that is why, under the maritime action plan adopted in february this year, the commission asked member states to update the eel management plans in full coherence with environmental legislation and in the light of scientific advice. finally, mr president, we also plan to organise a specific workgroup on eels with member states as requested in the context of the joint special group bringing together for the first time the environmental and fisheries ministries of the various member states at eu level.
the discussion is over. the vote will be held on tuesday 21 november 2023.
another item on the agenda is one-minute talks on issues of political importance (article 172 of the rules of procedure). i'd like to inform you that you're performing one-off performances from your chair.
this point of the programme is terminated.
the next hearing will be held on tuesday 21 november 2023 at 9.00 a.m.
the agenda of the meeting has been published and is available on the european parliament's website. the minutes of this hearing will be submitted to parliament for approval on tuesday 21 november 2023 at the beginning of the afternoon session.
the european union has a very strong commitment to the development of the european union. i am surprised that there are such strong forces in the european parliament that are defending protectionism, that is, defending selected producers at the expense of all consumers. the estimated gdp of the eu will increase by eur 1,8 to 3,9 billion as a result of the agreement. this means for citizens an increase in wages and an increase in economic growth. this will increase the possibility of financing public assets such as education, healthcare and environmental protection. unlike one-off grants, this agreement is beneficial to citizens in the long term, not just for a year, as is often the case with economic stimulus. i would like to point out that this is only the second free trade agreement during this term. i therefore hope that the commission will be able to step up its efforts and connect the european market with other trading partners.
in writing. the new packaging rules have the correct aim of reducing environmental pollution, but i believe they contain ineffective solutions through prohibitions and orders. besides, there's no high-quality impact analysis. the proposal aims, for example, to ban the packaging of most fruits and vegetables or to order back-up and recycled content in packaging. i think it's more effective to overestimate negative externalities. for example, the slovak environmental policy institute proposes: to tie the transport charges to the amount of waste and to separate it, if necessary, to the complexity of its recycling. only 13% of slovak population pays a charge based on the amount of waste produced, so today we do not motivate people to reduce or separate the amount of waste.
mr president, i have read your proposal to change the european union and i must say that this is pure madness. you're writing here that you want to abolish the right of veto and unanimity in voting on key foreign policy and tax issues. this means that everything is decided by the governing parties in the largest european countries. you also write that you want to strengthen immigration policy to root out our identity. you write that you want to control educational institutions so that you can brainwash young people in schools and universities with a bowling agenda. you want to take over, you say you need to take over the healthcare skills to manipulate and intimidate people through fear for their lives and their health. you know what, my fellow progressives, thank you, but we do not want this future and as long as i am a mep, i will never vote for restricting the powers and sovereignty of my country and the citizens of the slovak republic and we will always stand against those like you who want to restrict democracy and decision-making in individual member states.
mr president, i am a member of the european parliament from slovakia. i am obliged to respect the opinion of the government of the slovak republic. the government of the slovak republic in the programme statement which was approved today, quotes, i would like to quote: the government of the slovak republic radically rejects attempts to replace unanimity by a qualified majority. the slovak government radically rejects the abolition of the right of veto. the government of the slovak republic radically rejects the unjustified transfer of competences from the member states to the european union. the government of the slovak republic radically rejects the suspension of any decision taken so far in the institutions of the european union, which require the consent of all the members of the european union. i therefore, as a member of parliament of the slovak republic, will vote against the revision of those treaties and i maintain that every mep from slovakia, if he voted for the revision of those treaties, would vote against his own state and against the will of the citizens of the slovak republic.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. i am an austrian, therefore a neighbor of the country of hungary, and i can only apologize and be ashamed of the shame and shame you bring upon the hungarians. the hungarians are a valuable part of the european peoples' family and did not deserve to be treated in the way you are doing here. i have had a lot to do with hungary through my political activity here, from the simple people on the streets, in the local communities to the political establishment. through the bank decent people, integrated people, honest people; i say to that, often the opposite of what i've been experiencing here. and i am sure the hungarians did not deserve to be treated in the way that we are doing here. orbán makes three capital mistakes from your point of view. mistake number one: it is against eu centralisation. he's right. i'm doing the same. mistake number two: orbán is against illegal migration. the commission is not going to be able to do this without the help of the european parliament. and mistake number three: orbán is for peace in ukraine and russia. you should take an example of what orbán and the hungarians are doing instead of continuing the lubrication theater i have to experience here today. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card procedure.)
blue-card question. – dear colleague, you were singing the praises of the hungarian people. and i entirely share your views. but then you seem to equal the hungarian government to the hungarian people. can you please explain if you agree with us, yes or no, that a government is not the same as the people? and mr orbán may think he is the people, but he actually is not. he’s the head of government. but there are lots of hungarians who disagree with him, and they are also hungarians. they’re very good hungarians. can you please acknowledge that mr orbán is not hungary?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. dear colleague, yes, of course orbán is not the population. but remember, orbán has a majority of the hungarian population behind him. don't forget what viktor orbán and the fidesz party have gained in the last elections and that the trust that viktor orbán and his party have, through their own people, is very, very high and probably also unique when you roll your eyes across europe. that's the key here. and please note that there are other political views in this europe which cannot be opposed here by article 7 procedures or withdrawing any funds, but should be sought for the content and material discourse. this is democracy.
madam president, my colleagues, another debate on viktor orbán's hungary, with the same repeated reluctance, the same imaginary threats to the rule of law, to journalists and lgbt activists. i have never been able to demonstrate anything, as i was able to see when i visited budapest two years ago as part of an official mission of our parliament. and there's obviously nothing new. so what is the grievance of the left and the macronists this time? hungary has even agreed to some of the reforms you have requested, but you still do not agree. you keep on crying, saying you're doing it in the name of justice and equality. your relentless persecution and your shameful maneuvers have in fact only one purpose: to punish the hungarian people, guilty of being attached to their identity and traditions, guilty of rejecting your dictates on multiculturalism, on the unlimited reception of migrants, on the ideology of gender even in schools. you're showing your real face. nothing will ever satisfy you because you are motivated by ideology and hatred of our true values of civilization. let us put an end to this circus and let the commission finally pay the money it owes hungary.
the european union is not just a common market with free movement of goods, services and capital. we are also a citizens' space with a framework of values that identify us and therefore we have a charter of fundamental rights of the union. the comparisons between brussels and moscow made by orbán are scandalous. moreover, they reveal a complete disrespect for the hungarian people, for the decades of soviet occupation they suffered. how deplorable the campaign against ursula von der leyen in the context of a national consultation of hungarian citizens! if this is proof of the european commission's firmness in defending european values, the commission is congratulated. but they are particularly concerned about the instrumentalization of the judiciary, the weakening of the rule of law, restrictions on press freedom and threats and pressures against universities, scientists and teachers, or the unacceptable increase in discrimination against minorities on the basis of nationality or sexual preferences. we have discussed and analysed in the committee on budgetary control the judicial reforms announced by budapest and we have concluded that they are merely formalities and do not correct the attack on the rule of law or guarantee the independence of the judiciary. we must not therefore renounce the conditionality of the rule of law in the community funds. hungarian citizens have the same right to the rights, freedoms and guarantees granted to other citizens of the european union. unlocking these funds would be abandoning the hungarian people. this parliament must be clear and unequivocal and the european union must remain firm in defending its principles, protecting all european citizens from autocratic leaders and violations of the rule of law.
- madam speaker, please. the closure of universities, the control of the national media, the restrictions on women's rights, the control of the national courts, the rights of lgbtq people almost gone. it makes me angry and frustrated. but what makes me even more frustrated is that there are parliamentarians here and in the swedish parliament, in my home country, who support this ruling party that is responsible for this development. last year we decided that hungary could no longer be considered a democracy. there was a swedish party that voted against that stance, the sweden democrats. time and again, the swedish democrats back viktor orbán and his party. i am concerned about the future development of hungary and the eu. but i am also concerned about sweden's development. the eu has and must continue to have a great responsibility to put pressure on hungary, but to do so we need, of course, european countries that stand for democracy, human rights and the rule of law.
madam president, how far does mr orbán have to go to get us out of the policy of concessions? a little over a year ago this parliament made it clear that the rule of law no longer exists in hungary and that the country has become an electoral autocracy. i therefore ask you today what steps the commission and the council have taken over the past year to prevent the spread of sluggish orban democracy to other eu countries. do you know the result of your inaction? for example, today the slovak parliament has gained the confidence of the new government to avenge another autocrat in europe, robert fica. orban's friend who was helped to power by russian propaganda and misinformation by disinformation. from day one, the hunt for corrupt police officers, members of the judicial council, has been launched, and the press has been infuriating the public just as it was before the murders of jan kuciak and martina kušnírová. colleagues, there is exactly six months until the elections, the euro elections. i shall therefore say frankly that if we do not stop the growth of autocracy in the european union by clearly enforcing european rules, the responsibility for this will be on all of us, not only you. and unfortunately, this trend may not be stopped by the next generation of democrats.
mr president, the attitude of us europeans towards the jewish people is dishonest and hypocritical. for centuries, we have physically wiped out the jewish nation. we finally perfected it with the holocaust and murdered six million innocent jews. we couldn't live with them. we've created a state for them. and since we couldn't live with them, we told the palestinians: you have to live with them! you must live with them, but not on the same terms, not as equal to equal. the israelites have their own state. the palestinians have gained the gaza strip, they have gained the west bank, they have gained the occupied territory without a capital, without a vision for the future. and this is the main reason and the reason for what is happening in the middle east today. and i repeat what i said about six months ago. no one will ever succeed in destroying the historically hard-tested jewish nation. but no one will ever be able to destroy the hard-tested palestinian nation. let's start the peace negotiations. let's call for the creation of a palestinian state. this is the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the criteria of copenhagen, which is celebrating its 30th anniversary, are a list of criteria for economic health, stability and respect for democracy, which must be met by all countries wishing to join the european union. so i'll take your word for it. where is the stability of russia's attacked ukraine? where is the stability of moldova in the transnistrian region which seceded with 20,000 tonnes of weapons? where is respect for democracy in kosovo, which persecutes the serbian minority? where is economic prosperity when most of the balkans are subject to enormous poverty and massive corruption? where is the social economy in albania, which is gangrened by arms, drugs and prostitution? where is democracy in turkey where journalists are imprisoned and opponents are murdered? stop the hypocrisy. it was erdogan who best demonstrated the futility of these copenhagen puppet criteria when he said he had no intention of recognizing the armenian genocide because he was not among them. these criteria are in fact variable, ideological, secondary since the european union decided that it wanted to continue its expansionist project, which was terribly damaging to the future of europe.
mr president, nineteen years ago my country joined the european union and was one of the first countries to join after adopting the codename criteria. the czech republic had to fulfil those criteria relating, inter alia, to the principles of democracy, the rule of law or respect for the rights of national minorities before its adoption. they are required to be fulfilled after 30 years of existence by all states interested in joining the european union. and that's so right. surely we would not want to accept a country that violates the rights of minorities or a country where corruption stifles all the principles of the rule of law and destroys human lives. but now we hear constantly that ukraine, which is one of the most corrupt countries in europe, where the rights of national minorities are being violated in a fundamental way and where the opposition faces persecution, is part of the european union. i would therefore like to remind you, as a citizen of a country which has fulfilled the copenhagen criteria, that there is no accelerated path to european union membership and that no country which has not fulfilled those criteria before is definitely not part of the european union. unrealistic promises are useless.
mr president, colleagues, the copenhagen criteria set the rules to transform europe after the cold war and define the foundation for any future enlargement. the ‘big bang’ enlargement of 2004 was successful precisely because of these criteria from 1993. thanks to their power to change former communist countries into democratic regimes, we are all much stronger and resilient across an enlarged european union. today, the copenhagen criteria are as relevant as ever. after russia’s brutal aggression against ukraine, there is a strong political will across europe to enlarge further in our east neighbourhood and in the western balkans. yet, just like in the past, there can be no shortcuts for the accession countries. they do have to adapt to the eu’s democratic and rule of law principles. and, at the same time, we in the eu must reform ourselves in order to prepare for new member states. the next enlargement can succeed if we all again rediscover the meaning, the power and the benefits of the copenhagen criteria. dear colleagues, enlargement takes hard work, but it pays off.
mr president, commissioner, president-in-office of the council, enlargement policy is one of the most successful in the european union. since the adoption of the copenhagen criteria, 16 countries have joined the union and have had to undertake extensive reforms. now, the russian aggression in ukraine has brought back to the present day the expansion process that had been stagnant for some time. in this context, i think it is important to make some considerations. firstly, it is clear that article 49 of the treaty and the copenhagen criteria must be met. enlargement is an individual process based on the merits of each country. the delay of a candidate cannot mean that other countries have to delay their entry, and i find it inconvenient to set fixed dates. we cannot speed up deadlines or, as we have said, allow shortcuts or create false expectations. the union must also be prepared for enlargement, which is called enlargement or absorption capacity. and this means, among other things, more budgetary resources. i am concerned that in this context there are cuts and that these cuts may affect cohesion or agriculture. and i'm finished: eastward expansion cannot make us forget the southern neighborhood. the european union must also pay the utmost attention to the serious problems facing our neighbours on the southern shore of the mediterranean.
madam vice-president, madam secretary of state, dear colleagues, the enlargement of the european union is not just about the admission of new member states, the acquis or the criteria of copenhagen. enlarging the european union is about reaching the potential of the european union, it's about positioning ourselves on the world map at a time of great tension and strategic competition. it's about people and the values they assume. we are at a turning point in history and we need the strength to make the right choices, but also to make the effort to implement those decisions. moldova, georgia, the western balkans and ukraine have chosen the european path. these people, in many cases, paid the price of their choice with blood. the enlargement package proposed by the european commission is the right move at the right time and has our full support.
it's been 30 years since the copenhagen criteria were met. in 93 croatia and bosnia and herzegovina were under aggression, and war seized unprepared europe. two years later, the dayton peace treaty of 95 was signed. austria, sweden and finland joined the european union. by this time in 93 b.c. belgium had received a constitution where all three language groups were finally represented with equal share of power through federalisation. in 2004, there was a major wave of expansion, which covered eastern europe, and in 2005, the republic of croatia was awarded candidate status alongside turkey and north macedonia. the republic of croatia enters the last 2013. it was only the war in ukraine that opened up the story of peace and security, expansion in a real way. gentlemen, rome wasn't built in a day, so neither are the treaty reforms, nor will they be changed, nor are they necessary to achieve enlargement. expansion is necessary to physically defend ourselves against threats coming from those who are in the meantime using the vacuum we left behind. finally, open negotiations with bosnia and herzegovina, it's where it all started.
mr. president, your honor, the house is in a position to make a decision. three decades ago, in the enlargement politics, we were committed to democracy, human rights, the rule of law, economic development and prosperity. it was a promise of unity, security, progress for all who are part of our european community. we then gave the western balkans a european perspective 20 years ago. but all too often today, we seem to have forgotten both promises. the copenhagen criteria are in breach of existing member states. the broadcasting policy has been dead-end for several years, so in the face of the increasing geopolitical situation in the neighbourhood, both alliances become not only politically permissible but strategically necessary. enlargement policy, despite its difficulties, remains the greatest guarantee of peace, security and stability, but it also brings with it many challenges and traps that the european union will have to tackle urgently before future enlargements. so, gentlemen, europe will never be complete and perfect without the western balkans in its family. gentlemen, we can do this! we have a moral obligation to fulfill that commitment. thank you very much.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. we are talking about the 30th anniversary of the copenhagen criteria. the criteria are good, but their application is in a state of confusion and they are certainly not sufficient to give europe more external strength than it would need. the copenhagen criteria have a value dimension, an economic and competitive dimension and a structural dimension, the so-called acquis, where compliance is concerned. the commission has already adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the approximation of the laws of the member states. it is a matter of the parliament, it knows parliamentarianism and it knows what leadership means. otherwise we could not negotiate with the current serbian leadership or treat turkey under the current leadership as a candidate for accession. and as far as competitiveness is concerned, europe today often takes itself out of the game overall, but we demand that it be done by enlargement candidates. we need leadership, we need a clear will as in the german reunification and other moments in the history of europe.
mr president, the june 1993 european leaders' meeting was an important step in the removal of the berlin border marks that divided the european continent. this was a wise and well-thought-out political decision, opening the door to the process of european unification, a process that strengthened europe itself. the copenhagen criteria have not diminished in importance. understandably, they are being changed by the new geopolitical situation and the need for strategic factors. the copenhagen criteria set objective criteria for membership, which gave candidate countries the opportunity to compete in a constructive way. dear colleagues, let us not forget the political history of our continent and let us not be afraid to take the single path of europe.
mr president, commissioner and colleagues, it hasn’t been mentioned in this debate, but the very first enlargement of the european union was 50 years ago, in 1973, when ireland, the uk and denmark joined the eec. had the criteria applied in 1973, there’s no way that ireland would have been able to join the eec at that time, not only because of the conflict that was raging on the island of ireland at that time, but also because we didn’t really have a functioning social market economy. but, like so many accession stories, ireland joining has been an unambiguously positive story. the criteria is the way we will build our european home, but we mustn’t allow putin, in particular, to get away with weaponising the copenhagen criteria through the seeding of conflict in neighbours and the enragement and inflaming of minority sentiment. that is why i fully endorse the decision to provide a clear pathway to membership for both ukraine and moldova.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank you for sharing your views on enlargement policy and for further stressing the importance of the copenhagen criteria. but before thanking and concluding, i would like to reply to a few questions. first to mr mariani, who unfortunately left, and to ms konečná, on ukraine. only a few words. the question was: has ukraine received special treatment due to the war? ukraine accession process is merit-based. ukraine has gone through the regular steps that each country who wishes to join the european union needs to take. since the granting of candidature status, the european commission has published its analytical report on ukraine’s preparations for eu accession in february 2023, and it has updated member states on progress towards meeting the seven steps of the commission opinion, and ukraine has been included in the enlargement package for the first time this year, alongside with moldova and georgia. as such, no special treatment has been given to ukraine in the enlargement process. despite russia’s war of aggression, ukraine made significant progress in the implementation of the seven steps since the european council of june last year. ukraine has established a transparent pre-selection system for the constitutional court judges and reformed the judicial governance bodies. ukraine has ensured the appointment of independent heads of the anti-corruption agencies, and has built a credible track record of high-level corruption investigations and convictions. to sustain these efforts, ukraine took additional measures, such as the implementation of the state anti-corruption programme and the restoration of the electronic asset declaration system, also with some shortcomings. ukraine has also advanced on the alignment of its anti-money-laundering framework with the financial action task force centres. it has adopted a comprehensive strategic plan for the reform of the law-enforcement sector. it has stepped up systematic measures against oligarchs in such areas as competition and political-party funding, and agreed to revise an anti-oligarch law to bring it in line with european law or european rule of law standards. ukraine has aligned its media law with european union law, and continued to strengthen the protection of national minorities by amending the laws on minorities, and the laws on education, and taking measures to implement them – just to mention a few. on bosnia and herzegovina, to colleague željana zovko, once again, we have to reiterate this: the commission has recommended the opening negotiations once the necessary degree of compliance with the membership criteria is achieved. president von der leyen was clear: the commission is opening wide the door to european union membership and inviting bosnia and herzegovina to walk the walk through it, including by showing results on addressing the opinion key priorities. the enlargement process remains merit-based, and we expect bosnia and herzegovina to deliver. the council will discuss the conclusions on enlargement by december, and the commission will report on progress in bosnia and herzegovina at the latest by march 2024. this is very important. so, if someone asks what necessary degree of compliance means, we said that the door is left open for – this concerns the requirement for membership – copenhagen political criteria, the same formula used in the 2019 opinion on the membership application, when the commission identified 14 key priorities on the political criteria. so, by march 2024, we will be ready to assess again bosnia and herzegovina’s achievements. as evidenced by enlargement package published only a few days ago, 2023 has been an eventful year for enlargement. we are indeed celebrating the 30th anniversary of the copenhagen criteria. but 2023 also marks 20 years since the thessaloniki summit, and the first unequivocal confirmation of the european perspective for all western balkan countries, and also 10 years since the last enlargement to croatia, my own country. more than ever, it is time to seize the momentum and make swift progress. i look forward to cooperating closely with our partners on meeting the copenhagen criteria and working towards an enlarged union. the european project is not complete without our partners from the western balkans and the east. the copenhagen criteria will continue to guide us on this journey towards an enlarged european union. maintaining the current dynamic around enlargement is essential, and we count on that.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i should like to conclude by echoing the opinion also expressed by the european parliament. the presidency firmly believes in the strategic relevance of enlarging the european union. as it has been for 30 years, it remains a strong anchor for peace, democracy, security and stability on our continent. the process demands a lot from candidates, although the underlying motives are good. as the prospect of enlargement of the european union opens up, it is essential that the aspiring countries accelerate their reforms. this is especially true in the area of the rule of law, a fundamental value on which the european union is based and a crucial aspect of democratic transformation which lies at the heart of the enlargement process. in the context of our new geopolitical reality, i would also like to remind you that adopting the fundamental values of the european union and committing to respect them is a firm strategic option essential for all partners who aspire to join the european union. the full acceptance of the common foreign and security policy of the european union is an integral part of this strategic option. thank you very much for this useful debate.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next meeting. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 171.
in writing. the copenhagen criteria were created to enlarge the european union on the basis of common principles and values. enlargement should aim at strategic strengthening, peace and security of the union. the union's accession must be avoided as an empty credence for the countries wishing to join. however, recent years have shown that eu enlargement policy is characterised by two criteria: while the countries of the western balkans have been working for years to join, no progress has been made, ukraine is making rapid progress. ukraine submitted its application for accession after the outbreak of the war, committing itself to eu values and undertaking to implement the reforms proposed by the union. however, some of the reforms are only a sham: ukraine has reduced minority rights through its laws behind the reform programme, depriving national minorities in its european home country of their previous rights. an example of this is the new law on national minorities in ukraine, which replaces the 1992 law on minorities, which represents a step backward in the exercise of rights of minorities living in the country. ukraine's accession to the union can only be supported if it fully complies with the conditions for accession to the union! the most important thing is that there is peace in ukraine and that serious efforts are made to restore minority rights.
the next item on the agenda is the commission's statement on the remaining legislative action by the commission following the resolution of the pega committee of inquiry (2023/2988(rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, during the october plenary session, the commission presented its position and initiatives regarding the topic we are discussing again today. we spoke also about our reply to parliament’s resolution of june this year. i am pleased to confirm that our reply has been formally transmitted to parliament. today, i would like to underline again that the commission strongly condemns any illegal access to interpersonal communications and other data stored on users’ devices whoever the authors of such illegal access are. any attempt to illegally access the data of citizens, including journalists and political opponents, if confirmed, is unacceptable. spyware is a particularly intrusive technology. if misused, it strikes against our core values. it is of utmost importance that the internal market rules and the fundamental rights to privacy and data protection, as enshrined in eu law, are fully respected all over the union. this is why, as we announced last month, we are currently preparing a non-legislative initiative clarifying the boundaries of and interplay between eu law, in particular the data protection and privacy acquis, and national security. and we hope to have your support on this. to be a bit more specific, let me recall that eu data protection law is fully applicable to the processing of personal data by private entities, even where such processing is required by law for national security purposes. in this case, the supervision of the necessity and proportionality of such processing falls under the remit of the court of justice of the european union. eu data protection law is also applicable when law enforcement authorities process personal data for law enforcement and criminal justice purposes. in that specific case, the data protection law enforcement directive applies. eu data protection law does not apply to activities of the state authorities in the areas of defence and national security. where eu data protection law is not applicable, member states are bound by the guarantees laid down in the european convention on human rights and in their national law, including their constitutional provisions. so, member states’ responsibility for national security cannot be used to depart from eu standards and basic safeguards. member states’ responsibility to define and protect their national security interests is not a blank cheque issued for all use cases of spyware. it is notably important for the national legal framework to provide for adequate safeguards and controls, including possible judicial review. under eu law, as clarified by the court of justice, in order to justify a restriction to rights provided by eu law, member states must demonstrate that national security or another legitimate public interest would be compromised in the case at issue and cannot refer to national security in a general way to exclude the application of eu law. the attention given to the issue in 2023 rule of law report underlines that even where the use of surveillance software is linked to national security, there is a need for national checks and balances to ensure that safeguards are in place. in this regard, the relevant country chapters of the report have included the functioning of national checks and balances for concerns over investigations into the use of spyware. the commission has also sought to reflect the need to address this issue in several recent legislative proposals. there are specific safeguards in article 4 of the proposal for a european media freedom act. we propose a special provision to further protect media service providers, including journalists, against the use of spyware. this protection would go further than the protection against other forms of surveillance. the discussions between co-legislators are advancing, and we count on the support of parliament for a swift agreement on this file. the eprivacy directive prohibits the interception of communication and the storage of and access to information in the terminal equipment without the prior consent of the user concerned. this directive does not apply to activities of the state authorities in the areas of defence and national security. where the eprivacy directive is not applicable, member states are bound by the guarantees laid down in the european convention on human rights and by their national law. the proposal for a cyber resilience act aims to establish cybersecurity requirements for the market access in the eu of hardware and software and sets out corresponding obligations for the manufacturers of these products. it will therefore further contribute to reducing the attack surface of hardware and software that spyware is trying to exploit. we are continuing our efforts to strengthen export controls on cyber surveillance items from the eu to third countries under the terms of the modernised dual-use regulation of 2021. any such cyber surveillance items cannot leave the eu territory without an export authorisation or licence issued by the competent authority of the member states. once again, the commission would like to reiterate that it condemns any illegal interference in personal communications as it is contrary to democratic values and undermines fundamental rights in the european union. any attempts by national authorities to illegally access data of citizens, including journalists and political opponents, is again unacceptable. we expect national competent authorities and courts to make full use of their powers to thoroughly investigate allegations regarding any unlawful and lawful surveillance activities. the commission has no investigative powers. we cannot assess whether national security was at stake in individual cases. we have no access to the relevant files and no competence in this area. what we can do is to look at the safeguards that are in place at national level, and i have described what is possible to ask in the different national legislations. i want to thank you for your attention. of course, i will listen to your remarks and if there are some critics, i will listen too.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i have to say it’s genuinely sad that it has to come to this – the point where we once again need a plenary debate and even a plenary resolution in order to try and get a sign of life from this commission, because this parliament, with a great majority, adopted an important set of recommendations to prevent abuse of spyware and to protect our citizens’ fundamental rights. and we did so more than five months ago, and the commission had three months to answer. in the meantime, the libe committee sent a letter, but no action was taken. we had a plenary debate in october where also commissioner jourová said that it would soon be formally transmitted, and up to today i have not seen anything yet. i trust the words of the commissioner that it has now finally been sent. we organised an exchange of views in libe last month, where again, the european commission was conspicuous by its absence. until today, as i said, we haven’t seen any official reply, but we are told, and this is surely in reply as well, that the commission is – wait for it – ‘exploring the possibility of a non-legislative initiative’. i mean, that’s brilliant! the parliament has investigated spyware for a year. we spoke to well over 200 people, organised fact-finding missions, requested meaningful studies, research, a very thorough exercise in order to come up with a comprehensive report with those concrete recommendations. what on earth has the commission been doing in the past year and a half? it is disrespectful to the principle of loyal cooperation with parliament, and it’s a slap in the face of the victims of spyware. the only people that i have seen who are happy with the approach of the commission are the ones that are normally sitting right there, colleagues of the polish law and justice party who ironically find a great partner in the commission in their attempts to sabotage our recommendations. for obvious reasons they tabled a resolution to ask you to be cautious with our recommendations. and they’re so comfortable that they don’t even bother to show up today because they’re confident that you are dancing to their tune. so it’s time to change the music. we are urging you to show respect and ambition, and you have to ask yourself which side you want to be on: the side of the rule of law destroyers, or the rule of law defenders.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, commissioner, i listened with great interest to the first-year law student lecture we just got on what the law is, and what member states should and should not do – that’s not the problem. when member states do not comply with the law, then what does the commission do? that’s the key question here. and the commission says, ‘oh, we condemn. we expect. we assist. we have no investigative powers.’ sorry, the commission is maybe the most powerful body in the european union, but the commission says, ‘oh, the member states here are spying on journalists. they are illegally selling surveillance technologies to sudan or madagascar, but we can do nothing about it, even if the law says that they cannot do so.’ sorry, commissioner, this is just not good enough. if you say you have no investigative powers i disagree with you, but even if that’s the case, you don’t have to have them because the entire investigation is in the report of the european parliament. and if it is not in the report of the european parliament, it is in all the media reports that we have seen since. now even the united states – not being known for being loony lefty peaceniks – have actually blacklisted intellexa, a europe-based company which is engaging in illegal activity. they are considered to be a threat to the national security of the united states. so what does the commission do? nothing! this is a gangster’s paradise – europe is a gangster’s paradise. there is complete impunity for the abuse of spyware and for the illegal sale of spyware. and i wonder, if the commission cannot fix this, then why do we have a commission in the first place, if you are not the guardian of the treaties?
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in its recommendation of 15 june 2023, the european parliament found that certain european states have abused the use of spyware such as pegasus or predator. on european soil, journalists and politicians have been spied on using their mobile phones, and outside europe mass espionage has been carried out by the export of spyware by or with the agreement of eu member states. thus, a french company, nexa, appears to have sold the predator software to egypt, vietnam and madagascar. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission, and it is therefore very important that the commission and the council agree to the adoption of a directive on the protection of workers' rights. i don't think he is. like the european parliament, the council must remind member states of their responsibilities and encourage them to continue their efforts to use spyware only within a legal framework. but it is not for the commission to present a plan of action, as this is an area of national security and therefore the sovereignty of the member states. i must say solemnly that the european union is not called upon to intervene in all areas.
mr president, the mass surveillance of a democratic movement should make the government behind it fall. but not in spain, where the government refused to clarify its role in the pegasus, and they targeted 65 catalan elected officials, activists, lawyers, journalists and their families, that we know of. but not only has pedro sánchez not shown any willingness to hold those responsible accountable, yesterday, he reappointed the two ministers responsible for the espionage to their posts as defence and interior ministers. and believe me, mr sánchez was making a statement. he was telling us, ‘we will continue to use pegasus or whatever we need to keep anyone threatening the sacred unity of spain on a short leash’. how can we expect any kind of real investigation, as this parliament demanded? how can we trust that we will not be targeted again? we simply cannot. and the indulgence of this commission to such abuses is an intolerable invitation to authoritarianism.
mr president, dear commissioner, colleagues, today, we are here to discuss a matter of importance to our democracy – the blatant misuse of pegasus and equivalent surveillance spyware. this issue is not just about privacy breaches; it strikes at the core of our democratic principles and the rule of law. the european parliament has taken significant steps drafting the most comprehensive piece of text to date, demonstrating our commitment to addressing this acute problem. however, the urgency of the situation demands more than recognition, commissioner, it requires credible and consequential action. too many people have been attacked by undue use of spyware across our union, and their number is only rising. therefore, we call on the commission to respond directly and comprehensively to our recommendations. by acting now, we are not only addressing a present problem, but we are preventing a potential future crisis. as technology evolves, so do threats to our democratic systems. we must be prepared both in terms of policy and technology, to defend our institutions. and yes, this is about the upcoming european elections too. and we saw this already back in 2019 in the case of poland. in an era where information can be a powerful tool, the misuse of spyware could influence electoral campaigns or serve as an unfair advantage to those who do not feel bound by our common values or laws. this is a matter of europe’s democratic foundations.
president-in-office of the council. - (fr) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for inviting me to discuss with you the council's position on the review of the pollinator initiative. pollinators are essential for the conservation of biodiversity, as well as for the economy and, in particular, for food production. there is broad consensus that the current decline in pollinators' numbers and diversity is unsustainable and that, if nothing is done to reverse this trend, our ecosystems will be in danger. we know that the causes of this decline are linked to human activity: agriculture, resource extraction and urban and suburban development have destroyed many pollinator habitats. pollination has also been altered by climate change and temperature changes. in this respect, i believe we can agree that effective measures must be taken in the european union to combat the causes of the decline of pollinators. the commission's initiative which was initially adopted in 2018 and is now being reviewed is specifically focused on pollinators. the council welcomes the initiative and agrees that the problem of decline in pollinators needs to be tackled in an integrated way, using the instruments and policies available to us more effectively. one of them is the regulation on the restoration of nature, on which the colegislators have recently reached a political agreement. this important legislative act will provide a legal framework for member states which the pollinator initiative will support and complement. the regulation on the restoration of nature provides for specific requirements for member states to establish measures to reverse the decline of pollinators by 2030 at the latest. the review of the initiative was also presented at the agriculture and fisheries council in march this year. in general, the delegations gave a positive assessment and recognised the need to strengthen protection against pollinators and reverse their decline. many of them also stressed related measures which they have already included in their national action plans under the common agricultural policy. i also think it is important that we take into account the legislative work in progress, in particular the proposal for a regulation on the sustainable use of pesticides. its adoption could contribute more to the protection of pollinators. during the council's discussions, member states focused their attention widely on non-chemical alternatives and urged the commission to speed up their development and approval procedure. the spanish presidency is determined to move forward with the regulation on plant protection products and intends to agree on a council position before the end of the year.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, it is a great pleasure to see the support from this house for the eu pollinators initiative. all of us know that we cannot live without pollinators. without them, our food security, livelihoods and nature are seriously undermined. right now, bee, butterfly and hoverfly populations continue to collapse, with many on the verge of extinction. hence, the commission revision of the 2018 pollinator initiative, with the new framework adopted in january this year. together with the proposals for nature restoration and the sustainable use of plant protection products, it forms a new deal for pollinators with the potential to reverse the decline. the trilogues on nature restoration are over, political validation is now taking place by both co-legislators, and our binding target to halt the decline of pollinators by 2030 is now in sight. this target will be crucial for their effective protection. i will try to reply to your questions. you ask how the commission assesses the compliance of common agricultural policy (cap) strategic plans with the goals of the pollinators initiative, and how the current cap measures on biodiversity can help protect pollinators. based on an assessment of the local conditions and needs, member states prepared a national cap strategic plans for the period 2023–2027, explaining how they will channel support to achieve the economic, environmental and social objectives of the cap. the commission assessed how cap support can bring positive effects on pollination and ecosystem connectivity in the agricultural land. the strategic plans have been in place in place since january, and they support numerous practices that bring benefits to biodiversity and pollinators. enhanced conditionality with a range of environmental conditions to be met by all farmers receiving cap support now covers some 90% of all eu agriculture areas. almost eur 100 billion – one third of the entire cap budget – is used to support the environmental and climate transition to 2027. ecoschemes make up at least 25% of the budget for direct payments, and rural development instruments allocate at least 35% of their budget to environmental practices supporting our organic farming and landscape features, reducing pesticide use, and conserving or restoring biodiversity on agricultural land. member states can make adjustments in the plans to ensure the appropriate uptake of the interventions, while maintaining the overall level of environmental ambition. the updated guidance document for the risk assessment of bees from the european food safety agency (efsa) has been much approved and now applies to more pollinator species. it will be applied by amending the relevant implementing regulations very soon. the risk of pesticides to non-bee pollinators is included in the general approach for non-target arthropods. as a major input for this, the efsa has started updating the guidance document for terrestrial eco toxicology. in addition, ongoing research will enable a more system-based environmental risk assessment for pesticides and may allow further revisions of the risk assessment methodology. now to question two – a question on indicators and monitoring. the revised pollinators initiative will establish a holistic monitoring framework, enabling us to assess the state of pollinator populations and investigate key drivers of their decline. a number of monitoring initiatives along these lines have been launched by the commission in the last five years. looking to the future, it will be important to integrate a wild pollinator indicator that will be developed under the nature restoration law in the future performance monitoring and evaluation framework of the cap, recognising their critical importance. the commission is developing options for a farmland pollinator indicator, which should cover the most relevant pollinator groups on the basis of a methodology that is scientifically robust. now, just quickly, the reply to question three – a few words on capacity building to finish with. one major impediment of effective pollinator monitoring is simply a lack of tools and experts. that is why the commission is now implementing the orbit and taxo-fly projects, building essential tools for professional taxonomists and citizen scientists. we are also considering options for supporting the training of new taxonomy experts. and lastly, the youth for pollinators pilot project, largely funded by this house, envisages a small grants facility for youth projects. the results will increase our understanding of the cost-benefit ratio of small grants and the best ways to address implementation challenges.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, thank you, commissioner, for being here with us at this late hour. this has not been a very good day for pollinators in our parliament. it hasn’t been a good day for nature or our health, as those who oppose their protection managed to kill the law to have ambitious targets on the use of harmful and toxic pesticides. this means that pollinators will continue being killed and, unfortunately, are in extinction in a number of our countries and different cities and regions. but scientists are very clear: we need clear action, or else pollinators that are very essential for 35% of the world’s food crops will be lost. there is positive news, though, because our citizens have taken action and they want action from us as well, because over one million citizens sent us an initiative to save the bees, and ultimately save also our european farmers. in light of all this, i welcome the urgency highlighted in the revised pollinators initiative to address this rising concern. it is high time for member states and the commission to listen to the plea of our citizens and to step up our efforts to protect and monitor wild pollinator populations, and to reverse pollinator decline as soon as possible, and by 2030 at the latest. we need to halt pollinator decline – and yes, commissioner, i agree – funds are very important, and we need more funds to encourage more, not only young people, but others, to invest their energy in helping nature.
for the renew group. madam president, today is a sad day for the bees and other pollinators on whom our survival depends. despite many efforts, the european parliament has not supported farmers in replacing dangerous pesticides. the ones that kill bees and other pollinators, but also harm our health. but one failure cannot stop us. we can't just give up. there's too much at stake. our future. we are committed to protecting nature, to making food available to pollinators, to protecting the soil that is their natural environment, and to growing plants without using chemicals that harm them and us. in slovakia, i still meet with beekeepers and security guards, but i also know volunteers who are dedicated to protecting and monitoring the conditions of butterflies and other pollinators. and they tell me that their numbers are getting worse every year and the citizens and citizens of the european union are very well aware of this and are asking us, the political leaders, to correct them. they expect us to keep our promises. we let them down today. i would therefore like to make a further appeal to the european commission, to the colleagues here in the european parliament and to the member states, including slovakia. support the protection of pollinators, but don't forget to support all active people who want to be involved in their protection.
madam president, the protection of pollinators is not a dream. it is a necessity for biodiversity and therefore for the preservation of agriculture. the commission's proposal to revise the initiative is going in the right direction, as it is based on the basic premise that the protection of any species is built on the protection of its habitat, i.e. the conditions under which pollinators find food, escape, breeding and shelter. this requires comprehensive and coherent legislation. and please, let's be honest with each other in this regard. by rejecting legislation to restrict the use of pesticides and by almost ignorantly overturning and disabling legislation to restore ecosystems, we are going in the opposite direction. we're not protecting the biotopes, we're sticking to their further damage. it's a populist, shallow, harmful approach that we must clearly fundamentally change. otherwise, this initiative too risks becoming a non-functional formal act. and that can't happen because it's life.
in writing. to raise living standards in slovakia and in the eu, it is important that enough voters are also on the ballot: economic growth, which is a source of wealth needed for better health, education, public finances, debt and deficits, so that we do not experience the same collapse as greece in other countries, the effectiveness of the fight against climate change, so that we do not spend a lot of money on it and not achieve the results we want, the rule of law the basis from which everything is built, people's satisfaction for a very long time.
i would like to ask the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as we discuss the contents of the package for the defence of democracy today, to make an appeal to the commission and to each of you: we have to look at ourselves from all the risks, and often the most dangerous risks are not those that come from the outside, but those that come from the inside. with the european elections approaching, fighting propaganda and populist beetles who seek only a little easier and a little more ephemeral electoral consent is a matter of survival for our democracy, for our europe. i'll admit they go so far in the pound, actually, so much in the click. those ambiguous national political leaders who continue to mystify reality by blinking the eye of the leaders of authoritarian countries, blinking the eye of putin and xi jinping, every day crush the defenses of our democracy for their own sake. this is all the more true when these same political figures silence the voices within their own parties who try to remain consistent, to defend human rights at all times and without discounting anyone, as i have tried humbly to do over the years. it would be nice to imagine that they would change their approach, but it is now clear that this is outside their will. putting your own electoral interests and personal ambitions before those of your country and our union is a cowardly choice, the cowardly choice you can make, because the price will be paid by our citizens and those who fight, suffer and die every day for democracy in every part of our planet. let's not leave them alone, let's never do it!
madam president, vice-presidents, colleagues, this proposal arrives at an important time as we approach the european elections in a few months and i’m very proud of our work in fighting foreign interference in the inge and ing2 special committees in the european parliament. sadly, we are being proven right almost every day about how important this topic is. i believe that our special committees’ commitment has been instrumental in shaping the discourse around foreign interference, and it is encouraging to see that the commission also reflected on our discussions and recommendations. while this package reflects a commitment to protecting european democracy from malign interference, there is room for further action. no matter how well designed a communication from the commission, its success ultimately depends on how seriously politicians in member states take it. we must do more on both national and european level, and we must constantly respond to the threats. i also want to highlight the important role of investigative journalists who uncover cases of foreign interference. these contributions are essential in raising awareness and understanding of foreign interference, and we as politicians must do our part in spreading the awareness. the defence of democracy is a good start, but i am in favour of stronger instruments in the future. i see this as a good kick-off, but it must evolve and strengthen over time for the sake of a more vigilant and truly resilient democracy in europe. after all – and this is the bottom line – defence of democracy is a core business of not just this house, but of all public institutions in europe.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the report (doc. brussels and washington share many values and interests, and strong cooperation is essential to have critical mass in addressing regional and global challenges. but one of the most basic values we share with each other is democracy based on the principles of the rule of law. unfortunately, it turns out that's not an acquisition, let alone an evidence. the increasing pressure on this issue both from within and in the face of authoritarian regimes calls for more direct and proactive cooperation between us to strengthen democratic resilience in all its aspects. i have repeatedly called for the establishment of a centre of democratic resilience within nato to underline that commitment and the interests shared by the european union and the united states. i will continue to do so as long as the need for such initiatives remains felt.
mr president, dear colleagues, europe needs the us to be strong and the united states needs a united and democratic european union. the us can and should count on europe to be at its side in fighting for democracy against authoritarian leaders that seek to control the world or destroy ukraine and the republic of moldova. in the same time, we need the us to remain faithful to its euro-atlantic commitments, its support for nato, and in being a stable, fair and trustworthy partner. for that, we have to strengthen the existing dialogue and collaboration formats by making them unbreakable and beyond political cycles. we need facts. we need to update our cooperation framework and to re-establish our strategic partnership at all levels – political, defence, economic and social. all eu members should be involved in order to empower the process and give ownership to everyone. the european parliament actively supports a new, more integrated dimension of our us-eu cooperation. an example of this positive step forward was achieved recently for my country romania, where together, in partnership, the us and eu offered the possibility to get access, hopefully soon, to the schengen area. we have to continue showing that we can achieve great things together. i am confident we will.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. the united states is and will remain our most important partner on this planet. at the same time, we need to keep our eyes open for the election in 2024 not only in europe but also in the united states, and for the world as a whole to stand at many crossroads, for only 25% of the people living in democracies to decline, and for democracies, civilisations of freedom and the rule of law to stand together. this also means cohesion with the united states. but it also means self-employment for europe. we saw in the storm on capitol hill on january 6, 2021, how quickly the great, established democracy, the shining symbol of democracy in this world, can be jeopardized. how deep the shock is still today, we see every day. it is important to point out that it is in our own interest to defend our democracies and to be on par with the challenges of this world.
mr president, high representative, dear colleagues, eu-us relations are ever more important as the world around us has become more adversarial and less rule-based and predictable. russia’s brutal attack against ukraine has forged the transatlantic alliance once again. we must stay focused and united to face effectively common threats such as putin’s russia and rivals such as communist china. our security architecture is facing direct and hybrid threats that are targeting the core of our democratic institutions. one way to respond is to reinforce the transatlantic space by new members, just like in the aftermath of the cold war. respective enlargements of nato and the eu have been the source of strength in relations between brussels and washington for several decades now. today, we have a chance and vital responsibility to go further. as enlargement is back on the eu agenda in an unprecedented way, it is also an opportunity for a stronger bond in eu-us relations. in the coming days, months and years we must join our efforts and ensure diligently that ukraine, moldova, georgia and the countries of the western balkans become firmly anchored in an enlarged euro-atlantic community. there is no better way to respond to putin than to defeat him by successful eu and nato enlargements in our eastern and south-eastern neighbourhoods.
vice-president wieland announced that due to the schedule there is no catch-the-eye tonight anymore. no blue cards, no catch-the-eye. i am sorry.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, if there is no catch-the-eye allow me to say some words as closing remarks, although it’s going to be very difficult to close this debate because it will have to continue, to continue and to be expanded not only to the brussels and washington, d.c., not only to the capitals. we should make this relationship a people-to-people, a business-to-business, and a society-to-society. it is the only way of making our partnership growing on both sides of the atlantic, and on that this parliament has an important role to play. the elections are approaching – by the way, on both sides of the atlantic, we also will have to have elections soon, and immediately after in the us. but we should try to make the transatlantic partnership not a partisan question. it’s a core interest of both sides and we should take it in a way that it could, if maybe, be over the result of the electrons. they know that it is not exactly the way it is, and the result of the election will determine a lot the way our relations will be managed. i remember very well when trump was at the presidency, and certainly the things has changed a lot with biden, and it’s unavoidable – we’re talking about politics, and politics have been determined by the ideology, and this is being decided at the electoral level. but in any case, i think that most of your recommendations are inspiring and they could be much below the electoral results. we have to continue exchanging on this matter in the coming period. it’s clear that some of the most important issues – china, ukraine and middle east – are critically depending on how do we manage our relationship. so let’s give to this report all the importance it has. and thank you very much for your exchanges.
rapporteur. – mr. president, this is a time of great geopolitical peril. it is also true that complex democratic systems often do not cooperate easily or quickly. our relations are under pressure coming from events on the global scene, but they also feel the influence of growing authoritarian and even more radical options within our own democratic systems. the stakes are simply too high. the importance of our relations is too big to fall. we are convinced that the eu us relationship can survive the occasional quarrel. on the whole, lively debate between the united states and europe, even disagreements, tends to produce better outcomes and creates a world that is more secure and prosperous. nevertheless, a lot has been achieved since the last report in 2021. we see many concrete results and several open questions remain to be addressed. as said in the beginning, we are more optimistic but also realistic regarding all our partnerships’ challenges. as parliament’s standing rapporteur for relations with the united states, i am particularly satisfied with the high level of cooperation between all shadow rapporteurs involved in the negotiations on this report. i would like to thank all our assistants for their contributions too.
that's the end of the debate. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 of this regulation.
in writing. – closer eu-us technology policy cooperation would (a) boost prosperity in our economies, (b) promote transatlantic security, and (c) spread democracy worldwide. industrial, r&d, trade, and technology policy coordination on key technologies would promote western commercial success. ai, quantum, semiconductors, and biotechnologies have transformative potential for civilian and military uses. therefore, they are the cornerstones of western technological leadership. by coordinating policies affecting the successful development and commercialisation of these technologies, we can ensure that our enterprises gain market share. moreover, commercial success promotes western technological independence from authoritarian actors. allowing chinese market distortions to hijack critical technologies is a costly and high-risk mistake we already made in the pv sector. coordinating a response between the world’s two largest economies would ensure that we do not lose control again.
the commission's report on the eu-china relations (a9-0375/2023) (2023/2127(ini) is also a key point.
i'm the reporter. i would like to thank the honourable member for his excellent report and for his excellent report. and when i entered, reinhard, i said, is this a debate to do at this time of day? and you said to me, yes, we will do it because the text is very good. so i think maybe i've said everything then, but i'll continue in flemish because we worked very hard, reinhard, together with all the colleagues to have this recommendation. this recommendation is in fact in line with the china report of two years ago. we also made a very strong report with all of them, very unanimous. but i have to say: since then, the world has changed dramatically, and so have our relations with china. china is of course an important trading partner, but it is increasingly establishing itself as a systemic rival and an economic competitor of europe. china is increasingly assertive on the international stage. human rights are trampled underfoot. the political agenda of the chinese communist party is more than ever a challenge to our liberal world order, to our norms and values. to deal with this china, the union must be united. we must be united in our defence of our interests and values, and we must do so on the basis of three pillars. first, we must engage in dialogue and cooperation where necessary and possible. china is the world's biggest polluter with 27 percent of its carbon emissions, so we can't go around china fighting climate change. we must make sure china takes responsibility and cuts down on that emissions. the country also remains a very important trading partner, with more than two billion goods traded between the two countries each day. the disconnection of our trade relations would cause enormous economic damage. but unfortunately, we also have to dare to say that china does not follow the same rules. european companies have a harder time entering the chinese market than the other way around. and let's not forget to mention that the chinese government is subsidizing companies with billions. our trade deficit due to such unfair practices is almost 400 billion. we therefore need fair trade relations, as mrs von der leyen and mr michel have said. secondly, i will have to speak more quickly, because i will not be able to come. we must never close our eyes to human rights violations, such as the repression of the uighurs or the dismantling of democracy in hong kong. as xi jinping is increasingly speaking out against taiwan, we must continue to stress that china must never unilaterally change the status quo and that we will never, never accept chinese support for russia and its war against ukraine. china is increasingly proving itself to be a systematic rival of europe, and we must therefore continue to strive for that. thirdly, we must strengthen our strategic autonomy and drastically reduce our dependence on china the so-called risk mitigation strategy, which i fully support. and instead of chinese solar panels, chinese critical raw materials, we need to build our own capacity and produce them in europe. we can't be naive anymore. the russian energy blackmail has taught us that countries that do not share our values use our dependencies against us. and finally, and i'll end with this: we must speak to china with one european voice. only if we are united can we defend our values and norms. we cannot afford the luxury of being divided against china. there's too much at stake.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, certainly this very important topic would require maybe a little bit more time and a better psychological environment and not at 10 o’clock at night, when everybody is tired and the hemicycle is not very full. it’s not me, nor you – it’s the political groups who decided to discuss at 10 o’clock such an important issue. we are not going to exhaust it. we will have to come back to it. and i want to thank ms vautmans and all of the members who have actually contributed to this report on eu-china relations. china will mark this century for sure. i’m just coming back from china, by the way. i was there five days ago. i came back last saturday. i attended the eu-china summit. it’s the first time that it has taken place in person since 2019. and talking to china face-to-face at the highest level was a good experience, and essential in order to have a constructive and stable relation and to understand better where we are and what are our positions. so i was very happy to have this opportunity. i was there before – one month before – to prepare the strategic dialogue, which is part of our summit. what can i say? well, the least i can say is that our relations are broad and complex. and how we manage them will be crucial for us, crucial for china and even for the world, given the importance of our relations and the global challenges we must face together. there is no way to try to solve the climate issue without a strong engagement from china, because china is burning today more coal than the rest of the world together, and 90% of the new coal plants in the whole world are being built in china. so if you want to solve the climate issue, count on china. otherwise, you will not be able. this is one aspect of our complex relationship. and once again, we repeated this famous triptych – being partners, competitors and rivals – that china doesn’t like a lot because they claim that they are not rivals, they are just partners and maybe competitors, but certainly not rivals. and every time i talk with my chinese friends, i spend quite a long time trying to explain what we mean by being a rival. and then i use the example that real madrid and barcelona are rivals when they play football, because being rivals means that they have different goals and each one wants to win. but maybe in chinese the word ‘rival’ has a different connotation than in english. maybe ‘rival’ in chinese is a stronger assessment – it looks more like being an enemy than being just someone who is competing systematically. in any case, we discussed a lot about what it means to be a rival. and i wanted to convince our partners that we can be partners and rivals at the same time, that there is not a contradiction, because it is one thing to be a systemic rival – because our systems are rivals – and another thing to be in a systematic rivalry. c’est une chose que d’être des rivaux systémiques, et c’en est une autre que d’être dans une rivalité permanente et systématique. we are not confronting every day on everything. on the contrary, in some things we have to cooperate and in others we have to compete. but to compete, we compete also with the us. competition is with everybody in the world – economic competition at least. another thing is political competition. but we are rivals because our values and visions are different on key subjects: on democracy and on the universal character of human rights. these two things are important enough to justify rivalry. we are rivals because we have different political systems – including the way people elect the people who rule the government – and we are considering human rights differently. at the same time, you must work with china, because today’s global challenges, as i said, cannot be solved without china, and our economic ties and common political responsibilities are too weak. so we have to manage our relations constructively. for example, the trade relationship is critically imbalanced. but this imbalance has been growing in the last 20 years. in 20 years it has been increasing 10 times, but in the last two years it has doubled. so there has been a strong acceleration of the imbalance. the imbalance was a logical trend because china is exporting more and more high value added products and it makes the trade deficit increase. but in the last two years it has doubled. and when something doubles in a couple of years, wow, something’s happened. because if it is an accident, if it is just the consequences of the rebalancing of the world economy after the pandemic – well. but if it is structural and it is going to double in the next two years, then we have a problem. and that’s what we talked about with the chinese. is that the result of fair competition or is it the result of market access which is being obstructed and hampered by regulations? this was an interesting discussion. what does overcapacity mean? overcapacity over what? we also have overcapacity if we consider that in some sectors we produce more than what we consume. overcapacity means that you have a capacity to produce more of what you need to consume and your exports. then it’s true we have also overcapacity. but when you count the capacity of the chinese economy to produce cars – and you see that they are able to produce 50 million cars a year – this is an extraordinary capacity, much bigger than the internal consumption. it’s about 20 or 30 million cars that can be exported on a yearly basis. so everything is relative and we have to discuss the meaning of the words in practical terms, taking into account international trade rules. we asked china to act to address the root causes of this trade deficit, which has reached an astronomical figure of eur 400 billion a year and is not sustainable. so either they open more the economy or we will have to close ours. it’s one thing or the other. either they open more, or we will have to protect ourselves – which means closing. then there are many other demands about, for example, clarifying cross-border data flow, opening procurement markets, including medical devices, abandoning preferential treatment of chinese firms, taking action on regionalisation of food products – a lot of issues that need to be mended. but your report on china is much more extensive than being just about economics, trade and deficits. you put forward recommendations in three areas: human rights, european open strategic autonomy and engagement in global challenges. human rights: this is the area where our systemic rivalry is most pronounced, based on how we consider and implement international law. we continue calling on china to respect human rights and to guarantee all human rights being equal and not selective. we raise serious concerns on the human rights situations in xinjiang, tibet and hong kong, and the treatment of human rights defenders across china, mentioning some very concrete and specific cases. and we will continue doing so. then on strategic autonomy, there comes a debate about de-risking and decoupling. i try to explain them, and it’s important that we consider that de-risking is not an anti-china plot. de-risking is not something that we use as a combat banner. it is common sense. they are practising de-risking. we invented the word, they invented the matter, and they started de-risking much before us. they started diversification and i mentioned some sentences from president xi himself, when he was talking about the circular economy and the need to be self-sufficient, which is about de-risking. de-risking means avoiding overdependencies that can become critical vulnerabilities – like we discovered when the pandemic came and we realised that in europe we were not producing a single gram of paracetamol. or when russia invaded ukraine and then we discovered that we were 40% dependent on russian gas. two strong dependencies can become vulnerabilities. it is indispensable for us to ensure our security. this was also an important discussion because it’s a matter of ‘you don’t trust me’, ‘i trust you but...’. there is always a ‘but’ when we talk about economic dependencies. because yes, the market will provide unless there is a big crisis, and then the market doesn’t provide. that’s what was happening with paracetamol during the pandemic. we discussed about security. for the war of aggression against ukraine, we expect china to use its influence on russia to stop this war, to convince putin that he has made a big mistake with this war. they say that they have an unlimited friendship. well, in practical terms, it is more limited than unlimited because they assure us that they are not part of this military alliance and not in a military alliance with russia to fight in this war. and they are not supporting direct or indirect military support to russia. but we continue pressing china to make clear that this is a war of aggression and to use its influence on the aggressor to stop this war. with regard to taiwan, our ‘one china’ policy remains unchanged. we are opposed to any attempt to change the status quo unilaterally, by force, by coercion or intimidation, and that tension should be resolved through meaningful dialogue. the same is true for the south china sea, and we call on all parties to resolve disputes through peaceful means, in accordance with international law. and lastly, on global challenges, i insisted at the beginning that there is no alternative but to work with china. china is at the same time the most important investor on renewables – a champion of renewables – and a champion of coal. both things are true. they are developing renewables at the strongest pace in the world and they are doing the same thing with coal. and we have to tell them that it’s a problem. and then the discussion comes about climate change. who produced the problem? it’s true that today it is not us because we produce only 8% of the world’s emissions. but if we have a look at the cumulated amount of emissions, it’s a different story. in any case, it is in their own interest – because they have a strong pollution problem – that they have to reduce emissions. and it’s important that in global health, debt restructuring, they play an important role – that they will have to play. if they don’t, if tomorrow there is a debt crisis and there is a big restructuring of the developing countries’ debt, china is the greatest creditor. the biggest creditor in the world today that is not a member of the paris club is china. the biggest bank of the developing world is no longer the west – it’s china. and it’s important now our ability to work with china on these global challenges, because it will define the 21st century, for sure. so this report is a very important one. i think that parliament has to look for another occasion to continue discussing it, because i don’t think that tonight we are going to exhaust the issue. i think parliament will close the doors, the lights, before we finish discussing china.
(start of speech off mic) ... mr borrell is correct, it’s not a good time to be debating this, and he made an awful lot of points, which i wouldn’t disagree with. but at the same time, while this is a very important debate, you would not allow catch-the-eye, and the same in the previous one, which was equally important – eu-us relations. yet, no disrespect to the high representative, he spoke for over 13 minutes beyond the time allotted. that’s almost three times the time it would have taken meps to speak on the catch-the-eye. so my question for you, mr president, is: have you one law for meps and a different law for the commission?
thank you for your comment. it is the ordinary custom of this house to not interrupt and not stop commission, nor the member states, from presenting. that’s simply the custom that i followed. thank you.
mr president, colleagues, the totalitarian regime of the chinese communist party represents the single biggest threat to our freedom and security. we continue to pretend that we can cooperate with china, but even on the issues like the climate change, the ccp actions are destructive rather than constructive. this is why we can no longer afford to hide our heads in the sand. the ccp is open about its intentions. our policy must be clear: we must hold the ccp accountable for its crimes against humanity, and we must continue to work with our partners in strengthening our response to the economic and security threats it poses. failure to do so can have catastrophic consequences, not only for the people of china, but also for all of us.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. china is not following the human image that makes up our civilization, which is based on human dignity, which is based on freedom rights, on democracy and the rule of law. china has been promoting a modest prosperity for some years now, and has seen significant growth rates. but there is little to see of humility, neither inwardly nor outwardly. we must reject attempts to influence europe and other parts of the world. i am aware of and i think it is remarkable that the italian prime minister, giorgia meloni, has now succeeded in getting out of 16+1. it used to be 17+1, but now it's only 15+1 after the important european industrial nation of italy left this chinese attempt to divide us. we need reciprocity, reciprocity chinese companies are no longer allowed in europe than european companies are allowed in china. we need a level playing field, a level playing field, and then you can talk to china, but not on the current basis.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, this debate does not illustrate the importance and complexity of eu-china relations. it deserves much more than that. we are five members of the european parliament at 11.00 in the evening. certainly allow me to advise to organise better your agenda. yes, the importance of the eu-china relations are so great that i think that this parliament is not doing rightly the way that it deserves, because i suggest to do another discussion on china. but what can i say? i can repeat what i already said. our economic relations are on balance. our political relation, it’s complicated, china’s over-capacities are disruptive of the european union’s single market. we must remain firm on defending our fundamental values, we said that during the summit. and we will continue being partners, competitors and systemic rivals. but we have to keep fine-tuning this relationship. it requires a lot of fine-tuning. the geopolitical developments in the world will require that we pay a lot of attention to china for the good and for the bad. but i am ready to continue discussing in a better moment.
i'm the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for staying with the few colleagues who are still here. i am very pleased with the support of the colleagues, the groups and the various countries for this recommendation. i think it's good that the house is following the china report with this recommendation. i've heard from all sides that we need to keep working on this. and it's actually a much too important topic to discuss so late in the evening. and i also noticed mr. borrell's outstretched hand. and they say we're gonna move on. we can do that in a committee meeting. we can do that in a plenary session. but i also think we should address this more broadly than with the foreign affairs committee alone. i think we should also work with the international trade commission, because that is where the dog is bound, as we say. i think we should continue to work on this, but i think it is a very strong signal that this parliament will vote tomorrow, i hope, by a very wide majority in favour of this recommendation. i think we have done a very strong job in the area of human rights, strategic autonomy and competition and cooperation. and i hope, of course, that the council and the high representative of the union will then work on this renewed assertive chinese strategy.
that's the end of the debate. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 of this regulation.
in writing. – this report shows an inadequate appreciation of the geo-strategic position of china as a global power with extensive territorial interests to protect and affirm. china has a thousand-kilometre-plus border with russia. so, its perspectives towards that country differ from europe’s. having in recent decades finally succeeded in marshalling well its enormous resources, china now competes frontally with the us, eu and indeed the russian federation politically, economically and culturally. some approaches it uses are questionable, but this applies equally to the other powers, eu included. authoritarian and repressive policies in hong kong, and towards the uighurs, cannot be supported. however, china’s insistence on sovereignty over taiwan has been the basis of its relations with the ‘west’ since the nixon era. that ambiguity has crept in regarding the eu’s commitment to this claim is deplorable. today, china is deploying its new found power to bolster its interests, as others do. while safeguarding its own interests, the eu should maintain the best friendly relations possible with china, not in a spirit of antagonism but in competitive terms that remain fully compatible with dialogue and cooperation between the two sides. my vote on this resolution was conditioned by the above considerations.
the next and final item on the agenda for today is the explanations for the vote.
a uachtaráin, i voted in favour of these new rules defining the minimum rest periods for tour bus drivers, as these reforms will put agency back in the hands of the service providers and service users of the industry. flexibility is a key part of the service-user experience, and with this reform the differences between those who drive tourist coaches and those who drive freight trucks no longer go ignored. the impetus it places on increased digitalisation to optimise the work of both the operators and the authorities in carrying out the new reforms is a welcome one. this reform does not compromise on road safety or proper working conditions, but simultaneously places the driver’s ability to adapt to changing circumstances and passenger requirements at the forefront. dá bhrí sin, bhí áthas orm vótáil ar a shon.
mr president, as the name suggests, critical raw materials play a critical role in making the green transition a reality. i was happy to vote in favour of this report, as the act will allow the eu to more efficiently use the assets we have on our own doorstep, while also reducing our dependence on external industrial powers like china, which we have been debating here for the last hour. i welcome the introduction of a mechanism for coordinated monitoring of critical raw materials, supply chains, and the measures to address risks in the supply chain. i am particularly pleased with the amendments made to the benchmarks of the act. notably, the strong increase in recycling capacity to 25% of annual consumption and the recycling of strategic raw materials from waste streams. this shows the commitment of those involved in the development of this act to environmental prioritisation.
mr president, the report provides an important framework to convey parliament's key political messages to strengthen the european dimension of the 2024 european elections, and the process leading up to the election of the president of the commission. i was happy to vote in favour of this report, as, among other reasons, it introduces measures to facilitate the access to voting for mobile citizens and citizens with disabilities. this is grounded in the principles of inclusivity and equal representation. it aims to ensure that all eligible citizens, regardless of their mobility or physical abilities, can exercise their right to vote. strengthening the european dimension of elections is a way to enhance the democratic legitimacy of the european parliament. by fostering a more direct link between citizens and european institutions, voter engagement and trust in the democratic process can be increased. i also welcome the defeat of the motion to have transnational lists. we don't want a house of commons of meps and a house of lords of meps.
that was the last explanation for the vote for today.
the next round of negotiations will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m. the agenda of the meeting has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
the minutes of this debate will be submitted to parliament for approval tomorrow after the vote.
mr president, what is the future of young people today? environmental crisis, crisis of high prices, debt to continue studying in a specialization they are interested in, prices of apartments as cheap as beautiful terraced houses. then we discuss why we have a mental health crisis and a substance use crisis. but doing nothing is not the solution. so i urge disillusioned and angry young people, instead of turning away from politics, to turn your anger into action, action together to work together against the status quo. together we work against the establishment that rewards big business, which exploits young people and young people across europe and in our own country. we must unite, in the left, who believe in justice, social justice, equality and that every young person has the right to build their family, their future without debt that is impossible to ever get. together we can change things.
mr president, housing is becoming an almost unattainable goal for young people in europe. many of them are left to live with their parents without the possibility of independence or family. the cost of living and housing have increased dramatically in recent years due to the impact of the pandemic, the war in ukraine and subsequent inflation. it is precisely because of double-digit inflation that the possibility of obtaining adequate housing, such as by renting or buying through mortgages, has alienated most young people in european countries. it is appalling to read that to buy a simple 75-square-foot apartment, a young man in his 30s or 30s would have to put off his entire monthly salary in bratislava for almost 24 years and in prague for 25. with the rise of rent and property prices, housing has become unavailable to millions of young people regardless of their social status. so we need to think about what kind of future we want to offer them. i believe in a future where self-sufficient housing is once again an achievable goal for all young europeans to have the same opportunity to have their own home as their previous generations, including mine.
mr president, this european parental certificate or european birth certificate that you are planning to introduce is nothing more than the abuse of children to push the agenda. you say that children have the right to parents and that therefore all member states must recognise homosexual unions concluded in other member states. that's exactly what you're saying, but not just that. you go on and you write in the regulation that the regulation must be flexible to recognize unconventional family constellations, including the legal possibility of having multiple parents, for example four mothers and 20 fathers. who are these nonsense, please, attacking? i'm really looking forward to the next euro election, when people take you out of here and we can take all this nonsense away.
for the ecr group. madam president, corruption is certainly not covid, but it is also transnational. it is therefore legitimate for eu institutions to deal with corruption in individual member states. to some extent, corruption in one member state is corruption throughout the union. the government of robert fica wants to dismantle the office of special prosecutors, which focuses on prosecuting corruption and organized crime and has results. i see two fundamental problems in this. the government wants to do this in the so-called shortened legislative procedure, i.e. without sufficient time for comments, and the government proposes to abolish the important office on the grounds that it made a mistake. if that were true, we shouldn't disturb the special prosecutor's office if they doubt it. even if it were true, just as we don't disturb the courts, the government, or even democracy when they doubt it. people who feel hurt are appealing to higher courts just as thousands of ordinary citizens have for decades, who have no way of abolishing the police, the prosecutor's office or the courts. if these persons continue to be dissatisfied with the decisions, they may contact international institutions, such as the court of justice of the eu or the european court of human rights in strasbourg. in terms of building the rule of law, i do not consider it essential or realistic that all people who deserve to be condemned are necessarily condemned. i think it is essential that everyone feels that such an opportunity exists in slovakia. that slovakia is a self-governing society. thousands of protesters in slovakia in recent days show that this feeling is being lost by a large part of society by abolishing the special prosecutor's office. in 1968, the company in what was then czechoslovakia rose against totalitarianism. then came normalization, or cleansing. it took nearly 30 years for the company to regain courage and change. meanwhile, the difference between the quality of life in czechoslovakia and, for example, austria has become unknown. now the society is trying to resist the control of the state by a group of parties. we can give up and wait 30 years to compare the difference between slovakia and estonia, for example. or not give up.
the european union is a very important part of the european union. prime minister fico is pushing a mob package through parliament in a very fast fashion. he ignores the european commission's recommendations, which he came to ask himself in brussels. as a result, 20,000 people marched to the streets throughout slovakia. they called for a halt to the demolition of democracy. more than 70,000 citizens have signed two petitions against interfering with justice, but to fica, they're enemies or agents. journalists, the opposition, the non-governmental organizations. disdain for his own people. not for a moment does a mob package consider properly negotiating and listening to criticism. he'd rather make everyone an enemy of slovakia and its interests. but the truth is, mr. fico, much simpler. the national interest of slovakia is not corruption, but its suppression. the betrayal is not the defence of justice, but the dismantling of it. europe, this parliament is our home. therefore, our true people is a strong and just slovakia in the european union.
the question posed by raising the blue card. mr. colleague, i understand that you have friends from other political groups, like my friend groups, and that they tell you some lies. and i'd be interested to know that when you talk about the fact that the president, prime minister fico, has been accused of some corrupt thing, i'd be very interested in which. because what he was accused of was facebook status and holding press conferences. so i don't know if this can be considered corruption. i'd really like you to explain this to me.
i have been a judge in slovakia for 36 years, and therefore without emotion, pragmatically and correctly. in the democratic elections, the elected government of the slovak republic submitted a proposal for a new criminal law to parliament. she filed a motion to dismiss the special prosecutor's office. the president of the slovak republic or the president of the slovak republic, not ms von der leyen or the commissioner for justice, may veto this proposal. and if he vetoes it, and it passes in parliament and the veto is broken, then the opposition, the president, anyone can file a complaint with the constitutional court. and the constitutional court of the slovak republic, not this parliament nor the european commission, decides whether the legislative procedure was right or wrong. and if the constitutional court of the slovak republic decides that the government has acted in violation of the law, the government will respect that. what are you guys talking about? you are interfering with the competence of the slovak republic. but we are not, the slovaks are no longer a lesser slavic nation and you are not übermenschen. we are a sovereign country, a sovereign nation state. and why is this show, this anti-slovak show, why is it happening here? but because some legal dilettants, the meps are not qualified, because they were not successful in the elections, now let slovakia suffer, let the citizen of slovakia suffer, let everyone suffer. we didn't win the election, we're gonna ruin everything. that's a shame. it's a shame for you, colleagues, and a shame for everyone who talks about it. (the president took the floor)
madam president, get used to it, it's after the election. some of you may remember those words of the sword. in this spirit, politics in slovakia was conducted in the dark nineties. it wasn't easy, but we didn't get used to it. we're not used to the breakdown of the rule of law, to the contempt of our european partners, and we're not used to the idea that after elections you can do anything. ladies and gentlemen, robert fico has won the election, but he's weaker than ever. and most of all, he became the prime minister of a country different from what you imagined. slovakia, which has independent media and brave citizens who have come out to the square and told this retropremer that times have changed and we will defend our democratic institutions and continue to fight for justice. our back-prime minister has failed to notice that revenge as a political program is not enough today. ladies and gentlemen, you haven't noticed that he's supposed to serve the citizens, not ensure impunity for his companions. i call on our european friends, colleagues, to pay attention to the honorable people who, just weeks after the new fic government comes into power, are showing that the fight for justice is not over. we're not going to be quiet. government power is not absolute. slovakia is not robert fico, but a confident european country. slovakia has won its fight in the past and it can win it again with your help.
madam president, robert fico is evil. he's a dangerous extremist and disinformation worker who's intertwined with dangerous people. many are accused of serious crimes. to protect them and himself, including the murderers of jan kuciak and martina kušnírová, he's breaking down the pillars of the rule of law, the prosecutor's office, the courts and the media. 1.3 million slovaks voted for fica and his coalition, but the rest of the slovaks were held hostage the day after the election. fica's interference in the character of our state has driven many people across borders and many into the streets to protest against it. many slovaks are turning to european institutions to stop fica. today, robert fico called the slovak meps traitors, the opposition. he feared this debate and that he and his oligarchs would lose the euro funds. my slovak colleagues and i love our country. it is therefore our duty to do everything possible to protect her from a prime minister who is pulling us away from democracy and bringing us closer to where we were once during the martial arts. to the black hole on the map of europe.
listen, colleagues, especially those liberal councils. you come here and try to make slovakia look like a mafia state in front of all of europe just because you're not in power. because if you were there, i'm sure everything would be great, everything would be perfect, everything would be the best. the special prosecutor's office in slovakia is special only in that it is political. she was also politicized for former special prosecutor kováčić, who is now in prison for corruption, but much more politicized for current special prosecutor lipšić, who used this office to fight the opposition. this institution is simply so irreparably corrupt, discredited and over-the-top that i really don't see any other option than to cancel it and put the investigation of corruption cases back under the normal prosecutor general's office as in any normal state. and not to stand here in slovakia in front of all europe because you're not in power. fortunately, no one is interested in this debate. i counted about 20 deputies, including 14 slovaks. so that's your voice in europe. (the speaker agrees to answer the question raised by the 'blue card' raise)
answer to the question asked by raising the blue card. ms. coleman, we had this on the campaign schedule, like the cancellation of the special prosecutor's office because of the arguments i've made here. that is, precisely because the special prosecutor's office has destroyed freedom of speech in slovakia and completely discredited the fight against corruption, which no normal slovak believes anymore. no one believes mr. lipcic is honest about fighting corruption. on the contrary, everyone is convinced that this is political revenge on the former opposition, but also on other citizens with a different opinion, for daring not to go along with the mainstream and not to go along with the european union. that's the whole reality.
the commission has already taken a number of steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take action. fico and pellegrino have long had trouble explaining the corruption scandals of themselves and their people, and therefore, through the swiftly adopted changes to the criminal law, as well as the abolition of the key organization investigating these corruption scandals, but also attacks on investigators, they simply want to ensure impunity. in other words, they want to grant amnesty. the new government, which has dozens of former nominees already in prison for corruption and dozens more are accused, wants to clean up its own criminal prosecutions. in the long run, we say that the way these corrupt cases were handled for fica, but also the organization of those who committed this corruption, have clear signs of mafia. today, here in strasbourg, slovakia is experiencing a great shame. to save fica, pellegrini and their companions from prison, the sider, the voice, but also the sns, from treason. he wants to clear criminals, silence cases, destroy the rule of law. if slovakia ceases to be a state of law, we will blame them for losing the euro funds. because of the mob, because of the corrupt politicians, slovaks can lose billions of euros. dear friends, we cannot close our mouths or our eyes to evil. he doesn't deal with criminals. let's not tolerate fica and let's not trade with him. for a single vote in the european union. slovakia deserves to remain a state of law where everyone is equal and the law applies equally to corrupt politicians from the smer.
blue-card question. – dear colleague, have you ever been in slovakia? how much time did you spend living in slovakia? what do you know about slovakia, if you are lecturing or teaching us like this? you should better take care of yourself and your country.
the situation in slovakia is serious. the fundamental changes that the current government is planning are not in the public interest. on the contrary, they are tailored to the needs of select individuals who are to escape justice through the pro-mafia package of disrupting specialized agencies and reducing penalties. even the most serious crimes are threatened with silence. one aspect that should not be lost on this debate is the novelty of the criminal code and its impact on nature protection. it's also part of the rule of law, and the current government is being absurdly and harshly attacked. the new law makes it technically almost impossible to commit a crime by killing a protected animal. you'd have to kill seven bears to do such an act. this new approach allows poachers to operate with impunity where they have been trampled on by the environment police. an attempt to overthrow the rule of law is underway in slovakia. the problem is a democratic slovakia which may lose its democratic essence. this line in this parliament is being defended by unarmed guerrilla and fascist forces. these are people who didn't make it to this parliament and now they want to take all of slovakia with them. for slovakia, for the future, for all of us. we have to stop them.
the european union has also been a major player in the fight against terrorism. in this case, however, it is more like a power struggle in a state than a real attempt to defend the rule of law. it's like some parties have failed to respect the fact that government entities are fulfilling their electoral program. in order to reform the criminal law, ms. colleague, and to dissolve the special prosecutor's office on its own initiative, the slovak government is consulting with commissioner reynders, who prime minister fico also met with in person. certainly, any suspicion of corruption in high office must be thoroughly investigated. the commission, although it has made some observations, has not yet declared that the proposed changes would directly jeopardise the rule of law. it is clear that the commission, as well as myself, is concerned that any changes do not undermine slovakia's commitment to continue fighting corruption and to effectively protect the financial interests of the european union. mr le commissaire, i am personally addressed to you with a sincere request, that of continuing your consultations with the slovak government, which were put in place by the government itself. it is possible to achieve a positive result.
mr president, the insignificant frontex agency has become one of the key eu agencies and i have a positive impression of the improvement process that has taken place in the last few years following the significant scandals that unfortunately this agency has experienced in the past period. the position of human rights officers has improved. the reporting process of those major incidents and events has also improved. there's also increased surveillance of the agency. and what i see as possible improvements are, without a doubt, the management of external borders and cooperation with national authorities and national agencies. i think it's very important. we need a strong frontex agency to be the key to protecting our external borders.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for the contributions tonight. it is our common task to improve frontex’s functioning and the commission has done a lot in this respect. it has contributed to the implementation of a very robust system for good governance at the agency, including monitoring compliance with fundamental rights in all frontex activities. this has included instituting the independent office of the fundamental rights officer, the recruitment of 46, as i mentioned, fundamental rights monitors and the establishment of mechanisms to report alleged fundamental rights violations such as the serious incident reporting mechanism. clearly, the agency has a key role in the eu migration policy and must fulfil this role in an effective manner and in a manner fully compatible with the fundamental rights. allegations were mentioned about the collaboration between frontex and certain libyan militia. the commission has taken note of media reports regarding these allegations, and my colleague, commissioner johansson, is in close contact with the executive director of frontex, and i understand that frontex has provided answers to media outlets. at this stage, let me say that the commission repeatedly calls on all actors involved in search and rescue events to act in a lawful, swift and coordinated way to make sure that those in distress at sea are brought to safety as rapidly as possible. on the more general issue of respecting fundamental rights in border management, this is a shared responsibility, for the management, and the commission has been extremely clear about the fact that violations of fundamental rights in the management of the external borders are not acceptable. this in turn also applies to whenever violations of the law are alleged – it is the responsibility of every member state to investigate the allegations thoroughly, promptly and independently to identify all the facts and prosecute any established wrongdoings. let me, in conclusion, assure you all that the commission is committed to further improving frontex’s functioning and, in doing so, the commission counts on the support of this house, including through continuous monitoring, so as to ensure the fulfilment of frontex’s mission.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this has been an important debate, which will contribute to the upcoming council debate on the evaluation of the frontex regulation, scheduled for the first half of next year, on the basis of the report to be drawn up by the commission. as regards allegations of fundamental rights violations, i must of course recall the frontex regulation, according to which the agency has rules for reporting serious incidents. these rules have been optimized to ensure that the cases of allegations of fundamental rights violations are fully investigated and, as you well know, if these violations are serious or are likely to persist, the director of frontex has the power to terminate all or part of frontex's activities.
i have received one motion for a resolution to close this debate. the debate is closed. the vote will be tomorrow.
the next item on the agenda is the explanations of the vote.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is right to share health data to improve the statistics of medical assessments and to improve the integrated approach to medical research on a continental scale. i have proposed several times, including in this house, a european public pharmaceutical company that could counter the dominance and speculative blackmail of private pharmaceutical companies. it would also require essential levels of european assistance to make scientific and technological innovations available to all european citizens regardless of their ethnicity or origin. in this regard, i would point out that my country, italy, is launching a reform of differentiated autonomy which will also have the effect of differentiating the law on a territorial basis: a high level of health for the citizens of the centre and the north and a low level of health for the citizens of the south. this is contrary to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union citizen and i therefore urge the commission to intervene to prevent this profound and further injustice.
mr president, i have supported this report. there is no doubt that we need to strengthen our health union, to provide better health care for our citizens, and we also need to know the available, anonymized and highly protected health data to ensure that better health care. but i also think that a patient cannot be penalized for refusing to provide this data in general. he must of course be educated, because he will not need access to that data, nor will he need a health care facility to provide personal care. but i think we've finally managed to find a balanced approach in this report between protecting the privacy, the patient's free choice, but also the european union's interest in obtaining this data. hopefully, this will help us be more active in building our health union and better providing better care for our patients.
mr president, today we have adopted amendments to the european health data area regulation. i'm pleased to support this first ever proposal for a health data sharing space. the primary use of this data is to improve access and control of users' personal electronic health data. secondary use of this data will then support research, innovation, policy-making, health threat preparedness and response, patient safety, official statistics, etc. here we as the ppe group have managed to negotiate an opt-out, the right of a citizen to refuse to process all or part of his health data for secondary use only. users will now be provided with an easily understandable and accessible refusal mechanism. the text now approved contains a clear and strong wording on the protection of intellectual property rights and clarifies the purpose of data processing for secondary use.
mr president, what international relationships can we have with the united states of america? we are fully manipulated by the united states of america, so what kind of relationship are we talking about, exactly? i remember the words of victoria nuland, who said, ‘fuck the eu’. and in fact, we are fucking ourselves. we are fucking our economy because of the war in ukraine. we are fucking our humanity because of the war in israel. so what kind of relationship is it if they put the veto on the ceasefire at the united nations security council? i ask how many children still have to die for united the states of america before we call for a ceasefire? and how many innocent civilians still have to die before we put netanyahu in front of an international court of justice?
colleague, it’s a peaceful time here at the last evening session in this chamber before christmas, and i really would like to ask you not to use words like those you just used in your speech.
mr president, i have supported this report because the european parliament calls for a more active role of the european union in negotiations with the chinese government. the relations between the european union and china are not good. there are many opportunities and challenges for improvement, but also critical of the chinese government's unacceptable practices. this report names them, i think very precisely. like i said, i supported her. we need to work together to develop available technologies that can enrich both sides. we are undoubtedly dependent on the critical resources of the chinese government and chinese territory. on the other hand, there has been significant progress in protecting intellectual property, but the issue of unacceptable surveillance has arisen. what about human rights? this is a very significant long-term problem of the chinese government where we really cannot remain silent. and i'm glad that this report points to the uyghurs, tibet, to political prisoners.
mr president, i, like my colleague polchak, have supported this recommendation to the european council and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs in the policy on eu-china relations. this policy should be based on the principles of cooperating where possible, competing where necessary and confronting where necessary. our recommendation contains three challenges. first, china's involvement in solving global challenges. china, as an important international player, must take responsibility, which means stopping to support russian aggression, acting in accordance with the paris agreement and respecting the law. the second principle or the second challenge is respect for human rights. the eu must stand up against human rights violations by china and ensure a unified european response. third, reducing risks from china in order to ensure europe's open strategic autonomy. i hope that the european council and the commission will hear our recommendation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this morning president von der leyen explained to us that it was right to send arms because the ukrainians fought for us, defended our democracy and saved our freedom. after more than 200,000 deaths and a defeat at the door, they still come to us to explain that it was right. we are now told that ukraine meets the criteria of copenhagen and can move to the negotiating stages for eu accession. mr von der leyen said that in zelensky's ukraine, with ministers from svoboda, pravyj sektor and una-unso, which are paramilitary organizations inspired by nazism, the rule of law, social rights, civil rights, human rights, freedom of thought and expression would be guaranteed. the resolution also says that enlargement is one of the most effective political instruments for investing in peace, security, stability and prosperity on our continent: it is therefore clear that this executive has lost all contact with reality and therefore i voted against this delusional resolution.
mr president, i have supported this report because enlargement is a key issue for the future of the union as a whole. i think the report is ambitious, but unfortunately the real steps of the union are lagging behind. we're just too slow in the expansion process. we are giving hope to ukraine, to moldova, but the real steps are, as i said, too low or too small. i can say that, for example, the black mountain has been waiting for further expansion for more than 15 years. and that applies to other balkan countries. last year we were very disappointed in the european council's move, which rejected direct enlargement and further action. i think we need to show hope to the citizens of these states. and i hope that the european parliament's report will lead the european council to a more flexible approach.
mr president, last but not least, enlargement is one of the most effective and successful instruments of eu foreign policy. even after 30 years, the copenhagen criteria are as relevant as ever. they include respect for democracy, the rule of law, human rights and a functioning market economy. in its resolution, we call on the european council to decide, at its meeting on 14 and 15 december 2023, to open accession negotiations with ukraine and the republic of moldova and to open accession negotiations with bosnia and herzegovina and to grant candidate country status to georgia, if it takes the necessary steps. we call for a clear eu enlargement timetable to be set for the conclusion of accession negotiations by the end of this decade. at the same time, however, we stress that there are no shortcuts to eu membership. i believe this recommendation will be followed.
we also close the voting explanatory sections.
the next meeting will begin tomorrow, thursday 14 december 2023, at 9.00 a.m. the rules of procedure are published and available on the european parliament's website.
the minutes of this meeting will be submitted to parliament for approval early tomorrow afternoon.
following the resignation of helmut geuking, and on the proposal of the committee on legal affairs, parliament takes note of the vacancy of his seat from 5 february 2024, in accordance with the rules of procedure, and will inform the national authority concerned thereof.
the first item of the negotiations and of today's agenda is the council and commission statements, results of the 2023 united nations climate change conference in dubai, united arab emirates (cop28) (2023/3022(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, at this cop we have taken a historic step in tackling the threefold planetary crisis together: climate change, pollution and biodiversity loss. we have seen that if we act together we can boost mitigation, financing and adaptation to keep the 1.5°c target within reach. the completion of the first global emissions inventory has highlighted the necessary actions we must take to achieve this objective. at this cop28, for the first time, a clear call has been made to abandon fossil fuels in energy systems in order to achieve the net zero emissions target by 2050. this is a significant step towards multilateralism. the decision firmly recognises the urgent need to reach the greenhouse gas emission ceiling and achieve a minimum emission reduction of 43 per cent by 2030, followed by 60 per cent by 2035. this directly reflects our ambition to limit global warming, as i have pointed out, to 1.5°c. we have also committed to tripling renewable energy and doubling energy efficiency by 2030. the final text also calls for accelerating efforts towards the progressive elimination of coal energy. as regards financing, a decisive achievement was achieved in the first days of the cop: the launch of the loss and damage fund with pledges of contributions worth over 700 million dollars. in addition, many new financial commitments have been made. the cop has shown that we must transform the international financial system if we are to take our objectives seriously. the achievement of the world's first emissions inventory highlights the need to continue to drive private investment towards climate action and to move away from funding that jeopardizes our shared prosperity. as regards adaptation, a framework for the global adaptation objective has been achieved, providing a key impetus for accelerating action and increasing resilience. other notable commitments that received significant support were the halt and reversal of deforestation by 2030 and the deep recognition of the need to double the funding needed for adaptation. europe has demonstrated its unity and ability to create alliances, which has been key during the most difficult times of cop and throughout the process. cop28 represents an important step forward in global climate action, contributing to keeping the paris objectives within our reach. yet, much work remains to be done to ensure a secure future for mankind on this planet. and we are deeply convinced that by working with team europe, working with other like-minded members of the international community, we can achieve even more ambitious goals.
member of the commission. – mr president, minister, honourable members, i want to thank you for the opportunity to debrief you on the outcomes of the cop28 that ended yesterday, as you all know, in dubai. this cop was fundamental for our climate ambition as it marked the first global stocktake under the paris agreement. and it was one of the last opportunities to keep the 1.5°c objective within reach. this is a historic agreement that keeps us on track with the goals of the paris agreement and a climate-neutral future in 2050. turning to the main outcomes, all parties agreed to first accelerate the transition away from fossil fuels this decade. second, to take action to reduce global emissions by 43 % by 2030 compared to 2019 levels. and third, set the world on a pathway to reaching net-zero emissions by 2050, in line with the best available science. moreover, other important agreements championed by the eu were translated into the global stocktake decision. all parties have committed to tripling global renewable energy capacity and doubling the rate of energy efficiency improvements by 2030, as was proposed by the eu. this gives powerful momentum to the transition away from fossil fuels. there is also an agreement to tackle methane and other non-co2 emissions in this decade and to phase out, as soon as possible, inefficient fossil fuel subsidies that do not address energy poverty or the just transition. under the global stocktake, parties agreed on a pathway to get back on track, including through a process to align national targets and measures with the paris agreement. parties should submit their nationally determined contributions (ndcs) for 2035 by cop30, in 2 years’ time, and these should be aligned with the best available science and the outcomes of the global stocktake. as you know, the commission will present early next year an impact assessment and the communication on our 2040 target, which will be the basis for our new ndc. but the global stocktake is also about creating the right conditions for the transition. we have agreed on the final steps towards setting the new collective quantified goal on climate finance at next year’s cop. the agreement on the framework of the global goal on adaptation is also an important first step, and it is accompanied by decisions on adaptation finance, with recognition that adaptation finance will have to be significantly scaled up. cop28 pushed forward the reform of the international financial architecture to make it fit for purpose for addressing the climate emergency. specifically, the eu led the way in establishing a new fund responding to loss and damage, and the eu and its member states have contributed more than eur 400 million – over two thirds of the initial funding pledges. the final cop28 negotiated outcomes yesterday come on top of multiple agreements secured in the past two weeks, including the world climate action summit, attended by president von der leyen. whilst this outcome represents good news for the whole world, it is certainly not the end of the story. the work to implement what was agreed starts today. we, of course, stand ready in future negotiations to promote further ambition and to make sure we limit the worst impacts of climate change.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, dear commissioner dalli, dear minister, dear colleagues, the agreement in cop28 is a perfect example of european cooperation, coordination and leadership and it is also a powerful demonstration of the value of multilateralism in tackling our planet’s biggest challenges. it is now time to communicate that the crucial part of this historic deal is truly made in europe. the outcome of the global stocktake has the european footprint with regards to, first, tripling the renewable energy capacity, second, doubling the rate of energy efficiency improvements by 2030, and close monitoring to tackle methane emissions by the end of this decade. the european parliament is a key partner in european climate action, and so it is in implementing all the commitments made at cop. i would like to recall that in our resolution adopted just before cop, we supported not only a tripling of renewable energy by 2030 and a doubling of energy efficiency, but also a tangible phase-out of fossil fuels as soon as possible, including by halting all new investments in fossil fuel extraction. and above all, we asked for rapid, deep and sustained mitigation efforts to achieve the reduction of 43 % by 2030. now we have an agreement to deliver. it is the first time fossil fuel production has been directly referenced in a un climate accord, representing a victory for the high ambition coalition of nations. given that an alliance of petro-states had previously opposed any reference to fossil fuels. last but not least, this deal represents a significant breakthrough, translated into a clear signal to investors that there is no room, no room for additional investments in fossil fuel. this deal is a catalyst to drive increased investments in the net zero transition as fast as possible. it is now time to increase adaptation on the level of member states. accelerate designation for go-to areas in order to increase fast the deployment of renewable energy. it is time to act now. team europe, mr minister, is in action now.
for the renew group. mr president, we had the opportunity, on behalf of the european parliament, to meet with representatives of small island states at the dubai summit, and they could tell us, in all their horror, how their societies are simply disappearing. how rising water levels are causing incredible damage to their societies, and they are in some really, really tough considerations because climate change is as severe as it is. so it was a tough cop. however, there is every reason to rejoice over some of the positive things that have happened. for example, we must now move away from fossil fuels, we must triple the amount of renewable energy, we must double energy efficiency. so in many ways, positive things have been achieved in the final phase, not least thanks to strong efforts by the eu. but it also highlights the importance of delivering. we owe it to the fragile little islands. we owe it to our children. we must urgently fight climate change. let us make sure that this summit was the beginning of the beginning of the phasing out of the fossil.
mr. president, the signals from the climate conference speak in perfectly clear language. three times more green renewables, twice as much energy efficiency by 2030. countries around the world clearly agreed. we're finally hearing about how we need to get rid of fossil fuels. and that's despite the really strong opposition from opec countries, countries that export oil and natural gas, which make money on climate destruction. it took a long time, but it's there. now is the time to act. it's time to take this opportunity for europe and for developing countries to develop green energy, to create new jobs, not only to help the climate, but also to help our own security, to get rid of dependence on fossil fuel imports, to get rid of the high energy prices that have caused this dependence, to give the opportunity to small and medium-sized enterprises to develop innovative companies to give energy back to the people. this cop was also exceptional in that the european union was able to hold together very strongly and that the european union was mostly, that we were standing alongside most of the other countries on the side of the future of life, on the side of the future of our planet. most countries want to protect the climate. now all we have to do is act.
mr president, i agree with my colleagues mr kubilius and ms šojdrová and others that the solidarity lanes are very important. they are a means to help ukraine, but they must function properly in the interests of farmers in europe. and as ms šojdrová said, maybe we need to look at the efficiency of the lanes and come up with better ways of monitoring, etc., and i would hope that the commission would do this immediately, because what is not at stake is any lessening of support for ukraine. and also i think, with christmas coming into new year and all the attention probably at the moment, unfortunately, on the middle east, we may be taking our eye off the ball in relation to russia and ukraine. and i would call, particularly, on all countries who themselves suffered under the ussr, who had to fight for independence – like hungary – to reassess their attitude to ukraine and russia and think of what it would be like if they were invaded again.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is good that we are looking at this, because if we are honest, we can clearly say now that the solidarity lines have not worked properly and that is the title of the debate, we must make sure that they work. commissioner, i would invite colleagues who say they've worked to come to romania to talk to farmers. i met thousands of farmers in romania, my country. they all complained about exactly what happened. these grains and products from ukraine have not actually crossed the solidarity corridors, but have remained on the market, as you said, commissioner. they stayed and made an incorrect competition, because, let's not forget, the fact that grains from ukraine were exempt from plant health testing was also adopted. so i urge you, commissioner, to make a proper analysis, because we are destroying the romanian farmers. solidarity is not about destroying what we have in the internal market. i think farmers have lost a lot of money because of poor organisation and it is our duty, the commission, the council, the parliament, to help farmers in the european union countries.
mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, in this debate on the assessment of the measures and solidarity corridors in favour of ukraine following putin's war of aggression against russia, it is pertinent and necessary that the contribution of the commission on civil liberties, justice and home affairs be highlighted, because we are activating the temporary protection directive, which means free movement and establishment and access to employment and all residence-related services in the territory of the european union for more than 4.5 million ukrainians who already belong to the european union, who live among us. we have also strengthened eurojust's cooperation with the international criminal court prosecutor's office to prevent impunity for war crimes. and recently, a final achievement worth highlighting: yesterday the violation of the restrictive measures of the european union imposed precisely to punish russian economic and financial interests in the territory of the european union became a permanent crime. this violation of restrictive measures is already a european crime and has been achieved under the spanish presidency.
member of the commission. – mr president, minister, honourable members, the eu-ukraine solidarity lanes are not only crucial to support the eu’s contribution to alleviating the global food insecurity risk: they directly contribute to ukraine’s victory. they also benefit the eu now, facilitating exports of all the goods ukraine needs. there is no such turning back in terms of improving connectivity. the trans-european transport network was extended to ukraine and moldova in 2019 as a logical step. smooth transport is more important than ever. for this, we need to make the border-crossing points between the eu and ukraine and moldova as efficient as possible. this requires investment in infrastructure, streamlined procedures and improved management of the border crossings. moreover, ukraine and moldova need to progressively align their legislation as provided for in the respective association agreements with the eu, and as they advance on their european path. the commission is working closely to define main priorities and ensure seamless connectivity between the eu and ukraine, as well as to reinforce the solidarity lanes. all our efforts should be focused on increasing the capacity at the border-crossing points, but also unify the eu and ukrainian – as well as moldovan – road and railway systems over time. this will help bring these countries closer to the eu internal market and support ukraine’s reconstruction. the road transport agreement with ukraine was put in place as part of the eu-ukraine solidarity lanes action plan. it has been instrumental in enabling ukraine’s trade with the eu and beyond, and will remain essential in the future, given our ever closer relations. it is vital that relevant national and local authorities take the necessary measures to ensure goods can flow through the eu’s external borders, and the proper application of the eu-ukraine road transport agreement. the solidarity lanes are laying the groundwork of future eu-ukraine connectivity through land routes and inland waterways. this will be crucial for the recovery and reconstruction of ukraine. the commission’s support to ukraine is unwavering.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner dalli has just told us about the commission's efforts to keep the solidarity corridors running, and all the work of its services and the commission to find solutions to the disruption of one of the solidarity corridors, particularly in ukraine. we have also heard that there is overwhelming support in this house for keeping the corridors open as part of our prolonged assistance to ukraine. we must therefore work with all the institutions to find ways of ensuring the functioning of these corridors, which are essential for our aid to ukraine.
the discussion is over. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 of this regulation.
in writing. the european carrier faces a number of difficulties. here's the implementation of the mobility package, which has brought a number of new strict rules, new administrative and financial burdens. this was accompanied first by the epidemic, and then by the energy crisis caused by the russian war in ukraine. however, there is already another challenge, the conventional abolition of the license obligation for ukrainian carriers. this idea, originally intended to help, has now created a serious distortion of competition for eu carriers, with many companies on the brink of bankruptcy, as ukrainian carriers are not bound by eu rules and systems, which has repeatedly put the union, including hungarian carriers, at a disadvantage. i therefore call on the european commission to review without delay the terms of the eu road transport convention on ukraine and to propose a mechanism that will safeguard the interests of the union and hungarian carriers.
in writing. ukrainian carriers have been granted a significant relief for goods transported through eu territory in april 2023, which, although initiated as a temporary one, will actually be in force until the conclusion of the road freight agreement in progress between the european union and ukraine. the issue of bilateral and transit transport between the eu and ukraine should be settled calmly as soon as possible. it is recalled that the tightening of eu rules on the mobility package and posted workers was made despite all our protests because western european carriers were afraid of their markets from countries joining after 2004. we have heard repeatedly that social dumping in the eastern european member states must be curbed. and now they're waiting with open arms for cheaper fuel, which is much cheaper ukrainian freighters anyway? it is outrageous that while the eu has imposed unenforceable rules on the carriers of the eastern european member states with its strict decisions made over the past 10 years, nothing of this applies to ukrainian truck drivers! no mobility package, no rest time or minimum wage. the eu also exempted ukrainian carriers from the many administrative obligations imposed on hungarian and eastern european carriers, which means that they can transport goods much cheaper, which also puts hungarian businesses at a competitive disadvantage. everyone must play by the same rules when entering the eu. we're going to be sober, protect our markets and our carriers.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on: the question on the oral answer to the council on the mechanisms for the non-objection of objections in international conventions to which the european union is a party, submitted by adrián vázquez lázara on behalf of the committee on legal affairs (o000043/2023 - b9-0036/23) the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 of this regulation. a the question for an oral reply to the commission on the non-objection mechanisms in international conventions to which the european union is a party, submitted by adrián vázquez lázara on behalf of the committee on legal affairs (o000042/2023 - b9-0035/23) (2023/2867(rsp)).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr. speaker, there are exactly six people in the room, which is a scandalous attitude to the debate because it's not even noon. i'm tempted to ask you to check the quorum and close this meeting, which would straighten the hair of all of you. and so maybe it's okay, because that kind of attitude to debate is offensive. mr. chairman, please take a stand. let the groups gather people to come into the hall, even if they pretend to be interested. that's a scandalous attitude towards the taxpayers. six people on thursday morning, not after the vote, not a rush for planes. look at the hall, the people upstairs are the taxpayers and they're looking at this business and that probably bothers them. now on to the treaties. it is no secret that the european institutions are trying to assert more powers than they have and are given. and that's not right. the union must be a union of independent, free, sovereign states with competence as much as the treaties have given them. therefore, madam commissioner, what you must do in the commission is to be very careful when applying article 218 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. anyway, mr. chairman, there's no one in the room, so you can let me talk to you a little bit more. we're supposed to entertain the public anyway, but still, commissioner, be careful when... (the president takes the floor of the speaker)
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is one of the most technical i have been involved in for almost a decade. it is article 218 of the treaty on the functioning of the union. this article concerns international agreements negotiated and concluded by the union. the union is party to agreements which provide for the accession of third countries by means of clauses establishing a procedure known as the silence or non-objection procedure. in all legal sense, the conclusion of such agreements containing such clauses should not lead to the exclusion of the application of article 218. this seems to imply that for each accession of a third country to such an agreement, the commission should submit a proposal for a decision to the council, which may then, with the approval of the european parliament, in certain cases decide to object to accession. i take note of the explanations just given by the council and the commission which retain a flexible interpretation of article 218. i would point out, however, that the result of this is to marginalise the role of the european parliament.
a uachtaráin, the title ‘non-objection mechanisms in international conventions to which the european union is a party’ would be very difficult to explain to ordinary citizens, and they would probably see it as brussels speak. nevertheless, these issues are necessary, and i would like to compliment the meps who have mastered this and the commission and the council. and, as has been said, if the commission needs to take action, then there is a procedure there by which to do it. and i think that’s only right. i would also like to take this opportunity, as the council said, this is the last of the spanish presidency’s meetings. i was involved, particularly in the energy, performance and buildings directive, i thought ambassador raúl fuentes did an excellent job, and while the epp would have serious concerns about internal matters in spain, that should not take from the good work that was done in completing many, many important files which will stand to the good of citizens in europe in the future. so well done. and the final word there is party, it’s time to party! nollaig shona daoibh uilig, happy christmas to all!
mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, in this debate on a seemingly obscure issue such as the accession of the european union to international conventions, i bring an extremely important but still pending matter. the treaty of lisbon gives the european union a unique legal personality under article 47 of the treaty on european union and gives the european parliament the final say on the entry into force of international conventions negotiated by the commission on the council's mandate. and yet there is one mandate that is not fulfilled: that of the european union to accede to the european convention on human rights article 6 of the treaty on european union. there was a negative opinion of the court of justice, no less than in 2013, the craziest eleven years ago. and yet, negotiations to overcome the objections raised in that opinion have not yet been concluded. it is also essential to complete the cycle of dialogue between human rights protection systems with the highest standard in the world, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union in accordance with the european convention on human rights, and between courts, the strasbourg human rights court and the court of justice of the european union. until that pending question is resolved, this european parliament should not rest.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for these comments. as i made clear during my introductory remarks, the commission is committed to keep the parliament fully informed of each accession to the hague convention where a no-objection procedure is foreseen, and to take the parliament’s view duly into account in line with the duty of sincere cooperation.
i would now like to hand over to the state secretary navarro ríos. as this is the last time that the spanish presidency is speaking in the chamber, i would like to use this opportunity to thank you very much for all the work you have done and to wish you and all the country a merry christmas and a happy new year.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members, in particular mr kelly, who also thanked the work of the presidency, and on behalf of all my colleagues in the government and the permanent representation, who have been involved in the intense work with you all over the past few months, in particular in the tripartite dialogues. it has been a very intense work in the circumstances of the end of the european legislature, so i would like to thank you all again. i answer mr lópez aguilar that, of course, it has been the task of the spanish presidency. the council is still insisting on finding an agreement for the european union's accession to the european convention on human rights and i believe it is an effort that we will continue to make. in response to the comments of the members who have spoken, i would like to reiterate that the council fully respects the powers of this parliament but also the right of initiative of the commission and, therefore, in this respect, whenever the commission considers that it should submit to the council a proposal for a decision on the basis of article 218 on the indirect acceptance of the accession of a third state to the hague convention in matters of exclusive competence for the union, the position of the union shall be determined in accordance with the procedure laid down in that article. that's all i have to say, mr. president. i thank you for your kind words on behalf of my colleagues too and thank you all very much again.
thank you very much. this is the end of the debate. written statements (rule 171)
mr president, dear colleagues, hydrogen will play an important role in the decarbonisation process. as rapporteur, i am very pleased that we are going to adopt parliament’s position on the importance of domestic production, design of auctions, the role of imports, sustainability and geographical balance. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive cooperation in the negotiation. the main priority of the hydrogen bank is the development of renewable hydrogen in the medium and long term. secondly, support for domestic production is an absolute priority in order to decrease our dependence on third countries. third, the hydrogen bank should prioritise hard-to-abate industries and heavy transport. without adequate funding, faster permitting procedures and enough raw materials, transition will not be possible. the transitional role of low-carbon hydrogen is inevitable, especially for some member states and specific sectors. last but not least, i support regional auctions and call for a fair allocation between member states to avoid the deepening of existing inequalities. i hope the commission will take into account the position of parliament when designing the upcoming auctions. considering industrial policies in china and in the us, the eu needs to step up the game and this is one of the opportunities to do so.
