in writing. sweden took over the presidency of the council of the eu at a time of new crises, facing the security, energy and humanitarian crisis caused by the russian aggression against ukraine and still coping with the economic and social consequences of past crises. the swedish presidency has set security, competitiveness, the green and energy transition and the defence of the rule of law as the eu's priorities for the next six months. not only the core priorities, but also the vision for sectoral policies focus on economic growth and the eu's global primacy, in contrast to sweden's traditional reputation as primarily social and on the well-being of people and social dialogue in a well-established society. i was able to see this through my dialogue with the stakeholders who are shaping swedish employment policy and the social protection model, and as a member of the delegation from the committee on employment and social affairs that visited stockholm in december. i regret that, under the influence of the current domestic political turmoil in sweden and the necessary compromises with the far-right political option, human rights, including gender equality, and a human rights-compliant asylum policy have been left in the background rather than at the forefront of the response to the current crises. however, i expect the swedish presidency to take a stand on the side of european values, social dialogue and people's rights and expectations in its day-to-day work.
mr. president, please! the reasons for the shortage of medicines in the european union are the reduced predictability of seasonal diseases after a pandemic, disruptions in supply chains, labour shortages, withdrawals of medicines by the pharmaceutical industry where there are not enough large profits, especially from smaller markets. as a result, citizens face shortages of hundreds of medicines, with children, especially those with rare diseases, being particularly hard hit by this shortage. possible immediate measures in this area include support for production at eu level, joint public procurement, reduction of administrative barriers to cross-border movement and, of course, national stocks of essential medicines. all these relevant solutions are already contained in the european medicines strategy, which needs to be taken into account consistently in the revision of the eu's general medicines legislation. strategic autonomy and social resilience will be empty promises if decision-makers fail to ensure the health of our citizens, especially the youngest.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, madam commissioner, dear colleagues, i think it is absolutely clear that we have to investigate until all facts of this scandal are on the surface, not only relating to qatar, but also potentially other countries. but i think it’s also important that we already take the necessary steps that can be taken now, now. and i want to thank the president for coming forward with a proposal in this direction. i believe it is a good starting point, but some of the points will need to be added and maybe strengthened and sharpened a little bit. first of all, and i think that this is really important, we owe it to the citizens to bring our deliberations in this house to light. and that is why we will need a special committee with a very clear mandate to make recommendations of what is necessary to fight against corruption and for integrity and transparency in this house. secondly, this institution needs better whistle—blower protection because people who bring misconduct and wrongdoing to light need to be protected and not punished. thirdly, we need a stronger and mandatory transparency register. this is also part of the proposal, but i believe that we have to bring transparency by including also third-country representatives and by enforcing the rules that we already have on transparency, better. we need to make the register mandatory while at the same time ensuring that we do not put people at risk like, for example, human rights defenders, by not granting reasoned and limited exceptions. we have a big majority in this house supporting the establishment of an ethics body. but let us not wait until the commission comes forward, let us already nominate our negotiators now so that the negotiations on the interinstitutional agreement can start as soon as possible. and fifth, we have to be better in enforcing rules, and clearer defined sanctions will play a very important role in order to make that possible. for all this, we will need clear deadlines and very understandable procedures. and colleagues, i think many of you know, i really love this house, and it is one of the greatest achievements that we have come forward with in the history of the european union, that we come together here as directly elected representatives of eu citizens. and i think because of this, because we love this house and because we want to protect it, we need to do everything possible right now.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. we are dealing with the biggest corruption scandal in the history of the european parliament. it's not just a scandal in morocco, it's not just a scandal in qatar, because the people who were charged and arrested were dealing with artificial intelligence, were dealing with cryptocurrencies, and were dealing with poland. in the report of fight impunity, the organization of panzeri, who is now in prison, we could read that in poland white supremacists, fanatical catholics rule. on the basis of these reports, poland has been attacked in this house. we were even called fascists just because the people here didn't like the way the government in poland was elected. poland is a proud nation, it has the right to choose the government it sees fit. that's why we will never allow poland to be spat upon, mocked, talked about. and that's what happened in this house. we will never allow poland to be spat on by brussels bribes. therefore, we will demand that all resolutions against poland be repealed. we can pass a resolution that will say repeal the resolutions in which the bribe-takers, those who are accused or arrested, have participated. all amendments that were filed by the people who were arrested or charged in the investigative committee that i'm on, the pegasus committee, should be thrown out. we will never allow poland to be spat on by anyone. i never will!
madam president, i have to go. the shock. the fright. shame on you. and what else would describe the corruption scandal that was going on in this house? yes, of course, there is third-country interference, which is unacceptable to understand. and it's right to stop it, but... will it be enough? the rules need to be tightened up in all areas, at all levels, for all institutions, absolutely. but you know, we can have as sharp, as clear, as i don't know what all the rules are. in the end, everything, everything really does not end with money. not for me, no. it all ends with people, with us. and we owe it to the citizens, to the dignity of this house, after all, to do what we preach to many, and to do it ourselves. all of them. and if a third party tries to bribe you, it's not the rules that will stop it. the only thing that can stop this is our integrity, our colleagues.
mr president, each year the report on the common security and defence policy marks a further step towards federalism in an area which should not even be a competence of the european union. for us, the war in ukraine is a tragedy which must be brought to an end as quickly as possible by negotiation. for you, this is the opportunity to wage war. it's hard to believe. the text states in no uncertain terms that the mutual assistance clause between member states in the event of aggression must be extended to include destabilisation, economic pressure and disinformation. this is serious. you want europe to attack russia, but also russia to attack europe, by demanding the delivery of heavy weapons to ukraine, knowing that russia considers this belligerence. we categorically refuse to enter into the escalation you propose. for the sake of simplicity, you even want to abolish the unanimity of states on defence matters. we can't afford to do that. we must also be clear that we cannot allow the strategic interests of european countries, and especially france, to be confused with those of nato. we will not allow you to liquidate the french defence industry in a so-called european industrial base. finally, you should know that for us, france's diplomatic, strategic and military sovereignty is not negotiable.
mr president, high representative, dear colleagues, from the russian aggression against ukraine and the coercive behaviour of the totalitarian chinese communist party to the iranian nuclear threat, we are facing a multitude of serious global security challenges. we can no longer afford to be discussing empty concepts or engaging in an unnecessary battle between the eu institutions and nato. instead, we must put all efforts into concrete actions to rebuild the european security architecture, to support ukraine with the necessary weapons to defend itself, to deliver on our defence spending commitments, and to protect our citizens and companies against cyber-attacks, disinformation and economic coercion. this is why i welcome the eu-nato joint declaration. nato is and must remain the cornerstone of our security, and the eu and nato must work together to address the pressing challenges, in keeping with their respective competences.
mr. president, please! the complex security situation in europe and the world requires us to develop a common european defence capability. although the political debate is focused on the issue of decision-making by qualified majority, which i personally see as a historical necessity, today, with the savage war in ukraine, the real issue is the provision and maintenance of the necessary military capabilities. the painful fact is that european countries, including the members of the european union, are heavily dependent on imports for both military equipment and armaments and ammunition. it is time to move from high-flown words to concrete action. the first step should be to establish a framework for joint defence procurement, replacing the current inefficient fragmented procurement system. we will show unity, as we did during the covid crisis, and in doing so, we will not only increase efficiency and rationality in procurement, but also strengthen its transparency. technological progress will be accelerated, not only in the defense sector but also in the civil sector, as it will finance many basic research projects that would otherwise not be possible. joint purchases will reduce prices and strengthen the price and technological competitiveness of european producers. and last but not least, we will support quality jobs in the european union, which we are now supporting elsewhere through imports. that i am not at a loss for words on the need to ensure the strategic autonomy of the european union.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. yes, we are agreed that we condemn the blockade of nagorno-karabakh by azerbaijan. but as early as 2020, analysts and the red cross found that the ceasefire - from the unexplained prisoner exchange to the azerbaijani-turkish victory celebrations in baku - barely initiated a resolution of the conflict. yes, the russian troops are not securing the lachine corridor. the people of nagorno-karabakh, who are freezing and starving, are hoping for an airlift, whether from russia or the eu. the eu should move swiftly to remove inappropriate bothsiding, double standards and self-deception from its diplomatic arsenal. because everyone knows that the gas from azerbaijan has russian shareholders. everyone knows that azerbaijan has not escalated this conflict since december 12. so if our commission president and josep borrell want to look in the mirror at night, this humanitarian catastrophe must be stopped immediately, together with the osce and the un. european restraint on the possible gas supplies from azerbaijan would be shameful.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, the blockade of the lachin corridor has humanitarian as well as geopolitical consequences for the stability and security of the southern caucasus. azerbaijan’s aggression on sovereign armenian territory, in combination with the nagorno—karabakh blockade, are following the pattern we have witnessed in the past in the balkan wars and also in the tragic war of russian aggression in ukraine. with these acts azerbaijan is in breach of the un charter and preventing any possibility for a comprehensive peace agreement, which must guarantee the rights and security of the armenian population of nagorno—karabakh, the return of all displaced people and the liberation of detainees in order to ensure lasting peace between the two nations. this is why azerbaijan must immediately reopen the lachin corridor to enable freedom of movement and ensure access to essential goods and services, release all detainees and fully withdraw its armed forces from armenian sovereign territory. at the same time, the international community should negotiate the replacement of russian peacekeepers with international peacekeepers under the un mandate.
for the greens/efa group madam president, morocco has committed itself to making progress on human rights, but in some areas, progress is not being made. this is the case with press freedom and intimidation of journalists critical of the government, through smear campaigns and judicial harassment or through illegal surveillance methods such as pegasus, including against european journalists, such as ignacio cembrero. the cases we are reporting today are examples of how journalists are discredited and their reputations destroyed by the misuse of sexual harassment allegations, entrenched in court proceedings that do not meet fair trial standards. we call on the moroccan authorities to lift restrictions on freedom of expression that are incompatible with international law and to end the intimidation tactics against critical journalists that ultimately undermine press freedom.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we have a duty to support the courage of moroccan journalists, who were among the first in the world to denounce the use of spyware against reporters and the disturbing criticisms of this practice of digital surveillance as early as 2015. i am glad you referred to the text of the dual use regulation: it's an important step, but it's not enough. we should go further and start thinking about surveillance software and devices in the same way we think about conventional military exports, including them whenever we talk about sanctions or arms embargoes without discounts and finally put in place tough, automatic and deterrent sanctions for non-compliant states. if not now, when? ladies and gentlemen, this resolution is essential to send a strong signal to the moroccan authorities after qatargate and to distance ourselves from the unworthy conduct of this house, which some of us have been carrying out. the time for ambiguity, collusion, turning a blind eye or both is over. no more business as usual. we have to apply the same rules we have for qatar and we will not be intimidated. we must call for the release of omar radi, and all the activists and journalists who are fighting for the freedom of moroccan civil society, because their struggle, the struggle for independence, is also our struggle. let's hope we can all say it together.
madam president, i have to go. right to information and freedom of expression. they're written in the moroccan constitution. nothing obvious, for that matter. journalists are extremely restricted in their work, forced into self-censorship. the right to report on corruption, the status of the monarchy and the status of western sahara is, to put it mildly, severely compromised. because if no one reports on government corruption, then it most certainly does not exist, does it? meanwhile, the moroccan government is ostensibly demonstrating media pluralism in the country. in reality, however, they have only one independent media outlet, whose journalists are harassed, persecuted, often unjustly arrested, even imprisoned on false charges of illegal abortion and sexual assault. all this and more, what the moroccan government is doing is outrageous. it is time for the eu not only to condemn such behaviour in the strongest terms, but to act even more strongly. let this resolution be just the beginning. and to the gentlemen who advocate such moves, i say: no, the resolution is not based on tampered data, and we will not sit back and watch what you do.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. greater autonomy, information and participation of workers are an integral part of european integration. the rules on the establishment of a european works council do not take account of the number and complexity of transnational enterprises. branches are downsizing, they're shutting down, trade secrets are being used as a convenient excuse to not consult with the workers. the urgent revision of the european works council directive, which will give greater rights to members, allow better access to legal remedies, also allow support for trade union associations and make sanctions for violations of democracy in the workplace meaningful, has therefore been necessary. the changes proposed by mr radtke and the shadow rapporteurs are in the interests of both companies and employees. they are not a barrier but a comparative advantage for the competitiveness of firms, a source of information and knowledge for administrations and a link with the branches and the social environments in which these branches operate.
mr. president, i have to go. children forced into refugee and migration situations are a particularly vulnerable group. they are subjected to degrading treatment, exploitation, trafficking and sexual abuse. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the organisation of the exchange of information between member states and the commission, as well as on the exchange of information between member states and the commission, in particular on the exchange of information between member states and the exchange of information between member states and the commission. i therefore expect the eu asylum mechanism to respect human rights, to ensure safe and legal pathways and accountability for irregularities at the borders, while eliminating double standards and taking into account the rights of children. but there is a lot that countries can do today, because we have the european child guarantee and the european strategy for children's rights. in the national plans, however, it is the children from migrant and refugee backgrounds that must be given a special place.
in writing. the debate on the interim report on the accession to the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence (istanbul convention) is taking place at a time when the number of cases of severe forms of violence against women is increasing globally, as well as in the eu. women are not only threatened by authoritarian regimes, but there has also been an increase in domestic and online violence, especially since the pandemic began. it is in this area that the eu must do more to prevent violence on its own soil and to take a leading role in the world. i welcome the proposal for a directive on combating violence against women and domestic violence, which will harmonise the principles and common rules for preventing violence and protecting victims at eu level. this directive can complement, but cannot replace, the istanbul convention, which remains the most comprehensive and powerful instrument for preventing violence and protecting victims. the commission and the council must find a way to lift the blockade on the eu's accession to the istanbul convention, in line with the opinion of the court of justice of the eu 1/19 of october 2021, and to counter the false and malicious interpretations of this convention in individual member states, which are multiplying with each day of delay in ratification.
mr president promoting opportunities for women, especially disadvantaged women, is one of our most important common causes. we must strive to eliminate all forms of discrimination and discrimination, and it is very welcome, as the commissioner has also reported, that we can further boost the social inclusion and participation of women and girls in the field of digitalisation and start-ups with this european strategy. acquiring and accessing information is very important, especially in the poorest environments. however, it is very important to emphasise, and this is the weakness of this report, that in many points it also seeks to bring elements within the competence of the member states under a single sphere of action, thereby undermining or threatening to undermine the primacy of the right to decide on matters within the competence of the member states. respect for those powers, i think, is paramount. we need to take concerted action to promote equal opportunities for women and girls.
mr. chairman and ms. commissioner dalli, ladies and gentlemen, let's go back to the year 2022 and the un report. at the current rate of progress, it will take up to 286 years to close the gaps in women's legal protection, 140 years to achieve equal representation of women in so-called positions of power in politics and the economy, and at least 40 years to achieve equal representation of women and men in national parliaments. this data shows that our efforts need to be reinforced by promoting initiatives supporting reconciliation of work and family life in order to identify and redistribute the disproportionate share of women's unpaid work, which includes informal work, unpaid care and domestic work. this is especially true of women in rural areas. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. what the future of women is depends on us, so it's time to act because we are the ones who make the decisions. politics has to help.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i'm going to start today with a simple question: why is siri female? why is alexa female? my provocative answer is: because we're used to women working for us, having great ideas, working insanely efficiently, but somehow it's always just assistants -- in the case of voice assistants -- and then it's mostly the men in silicon valley who are driving the digital world forward -- mostly. women can do anything men can do. women can do it, women can do digital -- we all know that. and yet we must keep repeating it so that those who do not want to hear it, so that those who want to belittle us women, hear it. and that's why it's so extremely important that the un women's convention meets and that we push for equality even further year after year, together and globally, so that it doesn't take another three generations, until my great-great-granddaughter, for women to finally be equal. a girl growing up today needs to know that she can be anything, that she can be anything: an astronaut, a roofer, a construction supervisor, a cybersecurity expert -- whatever she wants to be. and that is why it is of course also important that we, the european parliament, who are often at the forefront of so many equal opportunities issues, also have a correspondingly important role in new york at the un women's convention, that we have a voice, that we can also act accordingly. we have a political lever in our hands to ensure that women, no matter where they are born, have the same opportunities as men. in conclusion, in the words of the great feminist johanna dohnal, who would have been 84 today: "we wait a long time for goodwill. women have only ever achieved what they have fought for. and we do this globally together, globally.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the green transition, the recovery from the pandemic and the digital revolution are shaping a rapidly changing world, and it is our job to ensure that no one is left behind. we need an inclusive digital economy, one that addresses gender-specific needs, so that women and girls, in all their diversity, are not harmed or excluded. supporting women's access to the stem, entrepreneurial and technological worlds not only ensures equality, but ensures a critical contribution that women can make to our economies. work, which generates independence and economic emancipation for women, is fundamental to freeing them from violence in all its forms. that is why i support working with the united nations to ensure that the global digital compact is gender sensitive. i would like to end by addressing my colleagues, especially those from the id group and then from the league. i spoke about women in all their diversity because i remember that every woman should be free to determine herself and to decide who she is. when the league talks about the negative effect that gender self-identification has on women's rights, it may be forgetting that each individual is free to choose how to manage their own body, without women's rights having to be defended at the expense of other rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are in 2023, but we are still far from achieving gender equality. i agree that the gender gap in some areas is predominant and that strong and far-sighted action is needed. access to education and digital skills must be a priority. they are, in fact, indispensable tools for women to achieve economic independence or to set up their own business. there is no freedom unless you have your own economic independence. the digital divide often also translates into a lower awareness of the dangers that can be encountered online. the fight against online violence and abuse must be a priority, and the weapons we have at our disposal are often too few. however, in the area of education and training, we must not only focus on policies that improve access to science, technology, engineering and mathematics, but we must also invest in the arts and creativity. only the synergy between the various fields of knowledge allows for a satisfactory development of the person. besides the body and mind, the soul must be nourished.
mr president, commissioner dalli, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has criminally legislated this legislature against cybercrime and cyberharassment against women. this is a priority for the european union in all international forums, including the united nations. but it must also be said that no un resolution can have the force of international law unless it is accepted as such by the european union and its member states. we were talking about the istanbul convention, where the european parliament instructed the commission to ratify it with the council as a single legal entity, and yet the task is not complete. despite the fact that the mandate was from 2017, the swedish presidency has still not managed to get six of the member states to ratify. and that is what the court of justice has said can be done without unanimity. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year.
mr. chairman, thank you for giving me your word this time. it's about the istanbul convention and the rule of law. i would just like to quote the court of justice of the european union in luxembourg 16 months ago, which said that you have to respect the principle of subsidiarity and the right of the member states to decide for themselves on the istanbul convention, and the rapporteurs are again, contrary to the court's decision, urging the council to take that decision. so you should respect the rule of law even when the court's decisions don't suit you. and you, then, are clearly endangering that rule of law. secondly, the promoters of the istanbul convention had the opportunity in their numerous speeches to mention at least one positive result of the istanbul convention which was signed 12 years ago. they didn't quote any of them. so, this convention has been proven ineffective. but you've created a narrative that we who oppose the istanbul convention, we must hate women and promote violence against women, which is gross nonsense. in fact, i'd even say it's the opposite. since that document is ineffective, you who promote that document, you promote violence against women because you promote an ineffective document. so i'm very interested to know how long this dogma will last, in which you will ignore evidence that shows this document to be ineffective?
member of the commission. – mr president, minister, honourable members, the upcoming session of the commission on the status of women provides an excellent opportunity to reflect on key actions to ensure that all women and girls benefit equally with men and boys from the digital transition and have the necessary safeguards to protect us from potential exclusion or gender-based violence. the european commission drove many initiatives that are in line with the european parliament’s women’s rights committee’s motion for a resolution on csw67. however, rapid technological and digital development will require further focus on both empowering women’s and girls’ potential, as well as protection against gender-based violence and silencing. we promote the collection of data disaggregated by gender and other relevant breakdowns in all policy areas. this is key to the design of effective evidence-based policy-making. with this in mind, last september, the commission launched a commission-wide gender-relevant data mapping exercise as part of the pilot project on gender mainstreaming in the budget. the results of this exercise will serve to further strengthen the commission’s annual reporting on the eu budget’s contribution to gender equality, as well as to inform the preparation of the commission’s proposals for the coming mff. for our external action, we have committed that by 2025, 85% of all new external actions must promote gender equality and women’s empowerment as principal or significant objective. furthermore, the commission developed a methodology to track all eu spending programmes’ contributions to gender equality under the 2021-2027 multiannual framework. this methodology was applied for the first time in the pilot in the context of the draft budget of 2023 and will be repeated in the draft budget of 2024. i thank you for your commitment and support to advance gender equality and to build a union of equality together.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, this year we celebrate the 70th anniversary of the adoption of the universal declaration of human rights. the declaration reflects the principle of human rights, yet these principles are called into question every time women and girls are denied the dignity and rights to which they are entitled. the eu is committed to the full enjoyment of all human rights by all women and girls, as well as their empowerment. this commitment is crucial also in the view of the challenges and opportunities women and girls face in the digital area. as mentioned in my introductory speech, working towards increased gender equality is a priority for the swedish presidency, including bridging the digital gender divide. during the 67th session of the commission on the status of women, the swedish presidency will, together with the commission, organise the eu high-level side event on the theme a gender-equal world with technologies, digitalisation and ai, which is a roadmap. if you are in new york, you are most welcome. today’s debate, alongside your resolution, represents an important contribution in the view of discussions that will be held in new york next month. i look forward to working with you to advance our shared commitment to gender equality together with our international partners.
the debate is closed. i would like to inform you that we have received two motions for resolutions. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the minutes of yesterday's sitting and the texts adopted are now available. is there any comment? the minutes are approved.
question time to the commission under rule 137 of the rules of procedure on the enhanced enlargement policy of the european union for the western balkans is now open. i therefore welcome commissioner várhelyi to this question time. as you know, this question period will last approximately 90 minutes. there will be one minute for the question, two minutes for the answer, 30 seconds for a supplementary question and two minutes for the answer. i would remind members that any supplementary question will only be assigned if it is strictly related to the main question and does not constitute a new question. if you wish to ask a question, we invite you to register your request now, using the catch-the-eye function on the respective voting machine, after you have inserted your voting card. during question time, the speakers will take their seats and i would ask all speakers to respect the allocated speaking time. members may need a few moments to record the request for a question through the voting device. i therefore ask you to put your request forward now so that we can begin our debate.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, my dear oliver, i have been to the police station for a few days. first of all, i would like to thank you for your efforts in the accession process of the western balkan countries, despite all the multi-layered problems associated with the candidate countries, historically related to identity, regional and religious issues, as well as the influence of russia. macedonian bulgarians, like all other citizens, must live in safety and tranquility for themselves and their families. they should have equal opportunities for education and career development, and to live in an environment free of discrimination and hatred towards them. this is the basis of our european union and not some trivial bilateral dispute. winning populist, pseudo-nationalist votes on this issue works against the interests of the citizens of macedonia. that's what i want to ask you. what more can the commission and you personally do to overcome this inertia from the past, to overcome the hatred in public discourse, in the academic world, in the political circles in the republic of north macedonia? so that we can help speed up the accession of this country to the european union, which is in the interest of all of us.
member of the commission. – well, i think it was very important that, in the case of north macedonia, we have very clear rules set out not only in the negotiating framework itself, that has led for the first igc to be convened, but also in the council conclusion adopting this common framework for the negotiations. and in there the criteria is very clear. good neighbourly relations and treaties that are there to provide for this are to be implemented fully. and this is part of, of course, the accession process and the commission is going to monitor this. this year we will again look into the progress. yes, i have seen developments, and i have received also representatives of citizens of north macedonia identifying themselves as bulgarians and they have also explained recent developments, but i take comfort in the fact that the government in skopje is not only aware, but also acting to eradicate any violence or any hatred against bulgarians. you have seen an immediate reaction from the government itself and the perpetrators have been arrested. there are ongoing police, and then – i hope – judiciary, procedures going on and i think that this should also give us a very clear guidance in terms of the level of commitment of the government of north macedonia in this regard.
thank you very much, dear olivér, for what you said. and i followed very closely also the negotiation framework and the implementation of this prerequisite for the starting of the second governmental conference. but can you please confirm that this is not only the change of the constitution but also the respect of the treaty from 2017, which – it is very important to mention and to emphasise the treaty – which, with the two protocols, are also something which the commission is monitoring for the starting of the negotiations? thank you very much.
member of the commission. – mr president, yes, i can confirm it is in the negotiating framework. it is part and parcel together with the prespa agreement, and the commission has to monitor this. this is part of the general political criteria under the negotiating framework, part of the general principles. this is why, as i told you, this year we will again give full reporting on this, coming up in the autumn.
thank you so much for your words. my dear commissioner! you are aware of the efforts of the european parliament to grant bosnia and herzegovina the status of candidate for membership of the european union. i was one of the more exposed meps in this procedure. the european commission announced the implementation of a high-level political forum with bosnia and herzegovina in the latest enlargement package, and this was agreed by the member states. how and when could such a meeting be arranged? it is known that my country, the republic of slovenia, has offered to host such an event. the republic of slovenia has been a major player in the award of candidate status to bosnia and herzegovina. and do you think it makes sense to organise such a meeting together with the member states as agreed? thank you so much.
member of the commission. – yes, we are waiting for the institutions to be set up in bosnia and herzegovina. actually, it is going ahead quite steadily. and once we see clearly that the institutions are there, of course, we will reach out to the government and the presidency and also to the federation level and the republika srpska government to set up this high-level political dialogue. the purpose back then, when we proposed this to the council and the council followed it, was to set up a forum where those actors of the institutions are present who are there to deliver on the 8 priorities and then all the 14 key priorities. so we will need the institutions to be not only up and running, but also to engage with us and amongst themselves to be able to deliver on that. this is the idea behind the whole setting-up of such a forum. now, when it comes to the actual work, of course we will need the help of the member states with the most knowledge. one could be, of course, slovenia. and what i can tell you is that, yes, we have been approached by the government of slovenia and we are in contact with the government how to best use their potential help, for example, when it comes to technical support, because these are reforms that are quite complex and reforms where it’s not only the legislation that matters, but also the implementation. slovenia should be in a position to help us to deliver also in terms of enforcement and also in terms of creating a track record in bosnia and herzegovina when it comes to the implementation of these reforms.
the honourable commissioner. with the granting of candidate status to bosnia and herzegovina and the opening of negotiations with albania and north macedonia, the enlargement process to the western balkans seems to have come into a new lease of life. i therefore ask you whether, in view of the developments on the ground, where we are actually seeing complete stagnation in some of the candidate countries, the commission will be a candidate. even in those negotiating accession, we see a backsliding on some of the most fundamental and crucial areas of the negotiations. does the commission intend to change its relatively passive approach towards these countries and to start a concrete proactive relationship and to promote the achievement of these countries not only to move forward in the negotiation process and to achieve those objectives that they have set themselves, but to maintain their european ambition. in many candidate countries there is a clear trend of support for membership of the european union declining, and i think we bear some of the responsibility for this decline. i therefore ask whether the commission will change its approach or approach the candidates more actively in order to help them to progress on their european path. thank you so much.
i'm not going to let you down. madam president! dear colleagues! for over an hour now, we have all been declaring how shocked we are by corruption and that it is absolutely necessary to establish an independent ethics body. well, almost all of them, because i don't count the right side of the room here. besides, everyone's already left. corruption has many faces, and it's not just the famous bags of money that have been taken from somewhere out there, but also from a hotel in brussels. every form of corruption is a worm that destroys democracy. yeah, we know that. we have different ethics bodies in different countries. and many of us fill tons of paper and reports into these bodies every year. will there be another such point at european level and more papers? maybe we should get along better. the development of a european standard. european cooperation in this field. standards and practices applicable not only to the european institutions but also to all institutions in the member states. and in that, i wish us all the best.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, we must always wait for scandals before we ask ourselves whether our institutions are working. and here we can make the state of the place: they do not work. so why aren't they working? we have ethics committees. but at the level of parliament the ethics committee is made up of five members, who are judges and parties, at the commission the ethics committee is made up of officials, who are judges and parties. moreover, it is clear that these committees are only consultative, not binding, and do not have the power to impose sanctions. so it doesn't work, and it's not transparent! i'll give you two figures: in the last three years, there have been 52 investigations into members of parliament. do you know what they gave? no one knows. at the european commission, according to corporate europe observatory, there were 360 cases of slippery slope authorized and only 3 applications rejected. do you know what files? no, i'm not going. when you ask what can be done, i will tell you, in fact, that we need an independent ethics body - just a minute - we need a budget, we need staff. it must be able to investigate, it must be able to impose sanctions and, above all, it must be transparent. we need to make the data public. otherwise, openness will lead to impunity.
mr president, this debate on the creation of an independent ethics body in the european institutions should not be necessary. the president of the european commission made this proposal at the very beginning of her mandate and the european parliament made a concrete proposal over a year and a half ago. we should not have to remind the commission and the council of all this today, following a corruption scandal which makes everything more urgent. but the truth is that little or nothing has happened in the meantime and statements of sympathy for the idea, such as those made by the commission, are always accompanied by a long list of conceptual objections, legal difficulties, differences in the model, discussion of competences and doubts, even about the resources to be allocated to the new entity. some of these issues will undoubtedly merit serious consideration and require reasonable compromise, but they cannot become insurmountable barriers, because that would signal a lack of political will to go ahead and do what needs to be done. the truth is that we need, today even more urgently, an interinstitutional agreement leading to the creation of this single and independent ethics body, with the means to assess conflicts of interest, to verify compliance with the rules of transparency and codes of conduct, and with the competence to issue reasoned recommendations. this is part of the response needed to regain the confidence of citizens and to address the problems of lack of transparency in the european institutions. you can't keep a promise that's been delayed.
my colleagues, an independent ethics body of the european union should already exist. but what if it turns out to be some kind of legend about a snake's tail? it may be more appropriate to sweep our own threshold and take care to strengthen our own ethical criteria and standards, in particular by enforcing and upgrading them, in particular with regard to the control of how former members of parliament access [...] this house and with regard to the register of assets, that is, assets that we own and that we already report in our own countries. this will not affect the exercise of our mandate and the freedom of our members, but will probably at least hope so strengthen, if not restore, the level of confidence in the european parliament. because the only trust on which the european parliament can build and exercise its political power vis-à-vis the other institutions of the european union is that of the european parliament. thank you so much.
mr president, madam vice-president, madam minister, i would like to thank you for your work. yes, people who care so little about their beliefs that they sell them do so, no matter how strict the rules and how strictly they are enforced. there are, and yes, there always will be; let us not make a mistake. but we can - yes, we must - do everything we can to make it as unattractive, as difficult as possible for such people to be influenced by third parties. ideally, they don't want to run in the first place. here, what mario draghi said in another context is true: whatever it takes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and the scale has to be like draghi's: we have to create something that ideally never has to be done. in addition to enforcing the rules, which we must tighten here, we must also do homework. we must have party procedures so that such figures who avoid the light of transparency do not even enter our house. we must also tell journalists: full spotlight on what is happening here! we need more people watching what's going on in this house and controlling us. and so together we can build a system where such figures who put their own beliefs up for sale, get influenced, can no longer do their bad work here.
mr. president, please! integrity, transparency, accountability. that's what we're all about. zero tolerance for corruption. without that trust in our work, it is not and it will not be. there are certain rules already in place, that's true. but we have different codes of conduct across institutions, which makes for inconsistent standards, insufficient investigative powers, not to mention flawed and often unenforceable sanctions. it is true that in the end everything depends on the integrity of the individual, but it is nevertheless right to have a european ethics body with unified, clear rules of conduct within all the institutions. with strict rules, i hope, of course, the strictest possible. most of us in this house were unsuccessfully invited to this two years ago. i hope that after all the recent scandals, the commission will now honour our request and its commitment. i think it's pretty clear now that there's no other way. for those of us who have no problem with rules and ethics anyway, it certainly is.
madam president, there is a certain nervousness in the ranks on the left. i don't know if it has anything to do with the fact that elections are coming up in greece and nea dimokratia is clearly leading in all the polls. ladies and gentlemen, as much as you may want to portray a totalitarian and oppressive greece, the greek people are well aware of the progress made in recent years in the area of the rule of law. this is also certified by prestigious international institutions such as the economist and transparency international. in just four years, the mitsotakis government has modernized cybersecurity and intelligence agency regulations and is now leading the debate on the european press freedom regulation. since then, greece has steadily improved its democratic quality and moved up in all indices, and is now above most of the member states of the european union. so stop looking for ghosts. stop trying to tarnish the image of greece and recognize the reality: greece is a prosperous democracy and the greeks are much better off today than they were four years ago.
president, greece has dropped from 70th to 108th place in the world press freedom index in one year. the press freedom situation is now worse than anywhere in europe than in greece. this is a bad case. the vast majority of greek media is owned by wealthy owners with close ties to the government. journalists who are still independent face intimidation, smear campaigns and lawsuits. in fact, predator software is being misused to eavesdrop on journalists, activists and politicians. the greek espionage scandal has nevertheless been brought to light by excellent investigative journalism. we are informed by brave reporters about the illegal pushbacks and the miserable conditions faced by refugees on the greek islands. the media should be the voice of people who are not being heard. a democracy cannot exist without a free press. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but once again some are unable to separate party politics from the protection of democratic values. we must not make excuses for this and must take measures to protect the free press and the rule of law in greece. not only for the greeks, but also for europe.
madam president, i have to go. threats, attempts to control, silence, subjugate. i know. to face this in journalism is not new, unfortunately. but in recent years, it's only escalated, even gaining momentum with new surveillance technology. there are many methods, but we must treat them as a whole. it's happening in europe too. there are not only threats, there are also tests, there is surveillance, there are murders. it's been almost two years since the murder of greek journalist giorgos karaivaz, and the investigation is still far from over. the death of caravaggio paid for the investigation into the links between the police, politics and organized crime. separately, it was revealed that the spying - not only on the opposition but also on journalists - was directed directly from the prime minister's office. in this case, greece is the wild west of the rule of law, but unfortunately it is not the only one. digital surveillance of journalists must be prevented. we're drafting legislation in the freedom of the press act, but without criminal liability for those who use these methods, we're not going to succeed. we need to do exactly what blackmail and spying is all about: expose them and stop them before anyone else dies.
madam president, madam commissioner, the pandemic has shown how much we need to be independent of the rest of the world to meet our basic needs. it is therefore time to secure our supplies of strategic raw materials, including those needed for the ecological bifurcation. indeed, continuing to stock abundant supplies of cobalt, lithium and rare earths on other continents, in the disastrous conditions we are experiencing, is social and ecological nonsense. while recycling electronic components through a stronger circular economy is a way of overcoming the shortage of supply, it is clearly not enough. in this context, the question of the exploitation of mineral resources in europe arises. this is an important challenge, but we must bear in mind that such projects can only be envisaged if the highest social and environmental standards are applied. if we are to succeed in the ecological bifurcation, the industrial policies we are pursuing here in this house must be acceptable and accepted by the people.
madam president, minister, commissioner, it has been said several times that the eu’s supply with critical raw materials is not secure. that’s true. but that’s not news. that was true also ten years ago when we experienced the senkaku crisis. but what did we do since? we refused to learn our lessons! today, we’re more dependent on china than we were at that time. that’s not because china controls all the raw materials, all the rare earths, as rare earths are not really rare, but the processing capacity that china controls, that’s rare and concentrated, and that creates a dependency. even with the greatest realism regarding a max of green mining inside europe and a max of circularity in the use of raw materials, we will remain a continent depending on critical raw materials imported from other corners of the globe. that’s why we must invest in partnerships with other countries, and i’m grateful, commissioner, that you mentioned the global gateway initiative. that should be the tool that we employ to create the win—win partnerships that help us in overcoming these dependencies.
madam president, commissioner, minister, indeed, we need a new quality in our raw material policy, sustainability instead of pure exploitation. we did in the past. therefore, i guess you are quite right. first, we have to mobilise our own resources inside the european union. sweden did move in the right direction on lithium, but i guess there’s a lot of more potential. secondly, we have to do more on recycling. it is really a scandal that we have a recycling quota for lithium under 10% inside the european union. thirdly, we have to create partnerships with third countries in real partnership so that we guarantee labour rights, environmental standards, and that our partners have also the possibility to add value in their production process so that they can profit in their development as well. so sustainability instead of pure exploitation.
madam president, since this issue became more prominent a few years back, a number of things have changed, quite rightly. the green and digital transition has become central to european policy, but also the geopolitical situation has become starkly more challenging, as many speakers have referred to, our russia dependence, our china dependence ... so this is not just a moving target, but also a target that is moving away. for that reason, i very much welcome the comments that you made at the beginning, commissioner. you highlighted the importance of labour rights and environmental standards. and i think it would be a terrible shame if we repeat some of the mistakes of the fossil fuel extraction over the last 100 years. how ironic it would be that the green transition itself turns out to fail some of the targets and objectives of the sustainable development goals. to remind you those sdgs, decent work, reduced inequality and responsible production, and all of the sustainable goals that go with that. i would also finish by reminding that the corporate sustainability due diligence directive will play a key role in this instrument in the future.
madam president, commissioner mcguinness, dear minister, the eu is now well equipped to step up and seize the net-zero opportunity. critical raw materials is one of the most important tools to serve this purpose, as without secure and sustainable access to the necessary raw materials, the ambition to become the first climate-neutral continent is at risk. in light of the announcement of the industrial plan for the net-zero age, as the commissioner has already mentioned and ursula von der leyen has done, we face a unique opportunity to work the challenge of safeguarding critical raw materials as a package. it is critical to understand that the manufacturing of eu net-zero technologies is only possible if access to relevant critical raw materials is ensured, including by diversifying sources and by recycling raw materials to lower the eu dependence on highly concentrated supplies from third countries, and boost quality jobs and growth in the circular economy. and it is also important to say that we cannot proceed with ensuring the next-age sufficient amounts of raw materials to the eu if we do not serve the environmental goals intact. in order to achieve it, we shall preserve the level playing field on an equal basis, particularly with the treatment of strategic storage capacities, with the promotion of the secondary raw materials market. since the safe and secure extraction is safeguarded, we need to proceed further with getting advantage through the investeu programme. countries like my home country, greece, need financial instruments for catalysing private investments in eu priority areas. the establishment of critical raw materials club is a key scope to deliver a secure and affordable global supply of raw materials with a competitive and diversified international base, and could pave the next day for the critical raw materials presence.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we expect the raw materials act to indicate concretely - it is not enough to say or promise - what choices and what actions to take to ensure that the strategic resources which we have chosen in europe are the ones that are needed are sufficiently available. we have chosen a development based on green technologies, which wants energy for the future, and so we need lithium, rare earths, nickel, copper and cobalt. if europe does not make a choice quickly, we risk being faced with two alternatives, both of which are hopeless: we must not forget that the european union is a major player in the world economy. that is why, commissioner, we need a very serious, very concrete act to counter the criticisms we have heard here from those who, anti-european, say that we have great visions and great ambitions, but we do not have the same consistent and ambitious instruments. some indications have already emerged. we need to diversify our supply, produce as much as possible and recover by recycling. and one thing: if we're going to build supply chain value, we need to look not just at environmental issues, but also at human rights. not slave children, not slave laborers to have these materials.
madam president, commissioner, minister, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the question of raw materials is the question of the future of european industry. without access to raw materials at competitive prices and in the quantities needed, there will be neither a green transition nor the associated technological breakthrough. so we need two: an efficient and economically sound circular economy model that ensures that the raw materials from our waste are reused. they are the cheapest and most readily available raw materials. the example of waste steel is illustrative, the use of which could meet over 60% of the steel needs in the european union. another measure is strategic partnerships with resource-rich countries. we can't get into an ongoing contest with other actors, because we're too late for that. the eu must approach this through a mechanism of equal partnerships that will benefit both us and the countries that own the raw materials. this will require the transfer of advanced and sustainable mining and processing technologies that will bring jobs with minimal environmental impact to these countries and the raw materials we need at competitive prices and in the quantities we need.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. protection against the risk of poverty is the foundation of the welfare state, human security and freedom of choice. in this mandate we have succeeded in taking the first step by adopting a directive on adequate minimum wages. however, as it was actually political will and not so much the legal basis that was crucial, this political will was also crucial when member states intervened during the pandemic and adapted their social minimum income schemes. the minimum income directive we are calling for is a logical response to the succession of crises and represents a lasting mechanism for a permanent crisis. it is intended to guarantee a decent life for those with the lowest incomes, those who have been absent from the labour market for a long time and those who are socially disadvantaged, young people, pensioners and others who are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. the vote tomorrow, including the proposal for a directive, is therefore a test of our political will and the seriousness of our promise that a truly social europe is at the service of the people.
mr. president, please! the far-right government has led to a deterioration of democracy in israel. this is evidenced both by the clear subordination of the judiciary to the power opposed by the people on the one hand, and by the aggravation of the situation with palestine. the government's clearly expressed and unequivocal intentions to expand illegal settlement and annex the occupied territories have led to an increase in violence and attacks on palestinians by both the israeli military and illegal settlers. in this context, it should be noted that the unjustified and disproportionate use of force, the aggression against the civilian population and the illegal annexation of palestinian territories constitute serious violations of international law. i therefore welcome the resolution adopted by the united nations general assembly last december requesting an advisory opinion from the international court of justice on the legal status of israel's long-term occupation and the legal consequences of israel's abuses against the palestinians. at the same time, i call on the european union to do everything possible, both on the threshold of multiculturalism and the revival of the two-state process.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have seen an exponential growth in the demand for digital skills in many professions. europe is in the midst of a veritable industrial revolution, with promising developments but also challenges that we should not underestimate. a revolution that can dramatically change our economy and our society. we know how important digital transformation is. the cost of non-europe in this area is estimated to increase over time to reach eur 1 300 billion in 2033. however, these transitions must be managed, not overwhelmed. it is good that 2023 is the european year of skills, because there is still a lot to do in terms of skills and upskilling. in fact, major studies show that the impact of digitalisation on the labour market depends mainly on the skills required and the degree of routine of the tasks. the european union has a 24% low-skilled population at risk of poverty, a percentage which decreases as the level of education increases. this is the challenge before us and we should be particularly careful not to really leave anyone behind, otherwise we will obviously be prey to a very dangerous social anger.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. ladies and gentlemen! although we often disagree in this room, it seems that the subject of today's debate should unite us all. there is no doubt that by building a more competitive economy, we are not only creating more jobs for our citizens, but also laying the foundations for a better future for future generations. that is the overriding purpose that should always be the focus of our community. creating more quality jobs in the european union is essential to promoting economic growth, reducing unemployment and improving living standards. but this requires a multi-faceted approach and cooperation between governments, businesses and citizens. how do you do that? we need to invest in education and training, because a well-educated and skilled workforce is essential to attract investment and create quality jobs. we need to foster innovation by creating a business-friendly environment, including in particular by simplifying regulations and creating a level playing field for all companies, regardless of their size. we also need to invest in infrastructure, such as high-speed internet, transport networks and so-called smart cities, which will attract businesses. and finally, we have to remember that sustainable development is balanced development, so any action we take has to be inclusive and include not just the largest centres, but also rural and remote areas. their development potential and human capital are often underestimated, and i assure you that they are also a great asset to us.
mr president, commissioner, madam president-in-office of the council, this is certainly a timely debate, a relevant debate and a debate which is also necessary to deal with the future of the european economy. it is true that in this discussion we are having there are different proposals, different ideas, different contributions. but i think that in these times of also, let's be clear, uncertainty for the future, we can remember the founding fathers, and we can remember the principle of the social market economy, to which we have added green motivations, the energy transition, as a foundation that can light our way. this social market economy, which is also green, requires further consolidation of the internal market, exploiting the advantages of this great single market, but also strengthening and building, also at european level, systems of income redistribution that allow the benefits of the market to reach all citizens, all men and women in the european union. and so, there and in the fundamentally financial field - we have the banking union, which is still to be completed, the capital markets union and certainly the tax challenges - we are required to have a european system which also redistributes income among all europeans.
mr. president, please! more europe, more jobs. rapid economic growth, increased competitiveness. the creation of new professions, appropriate education. all of these go hand in hand, but none of them without proper education and training. i am particularly emphasising this because this year - as we have heard many times today - is the european year of skills, and we must therefore take into account the need for additional, effective training of individuals and individuals to match the skills needed to pursue new professions when designing economic strategies and creating new jobs. in this area, the union can use targeted economic development strategies to encourage firms to develop further, while at the same time encouraging them to take account of the need for appropriate skills and the re-skilling of the workforce. it's crucial to our future.
in writing. i welcome the debate on such an important topic as deepening european integration to create new jobs, albeit in the context of a flawed title that does not give the right context. the title of this debate does not reflect the guidelines given to us by the conference on the future of europe and the great work we have done to build a social europe with the social summit in porto, with the action plan for the implementation of the european pillar of social rights, the european minimum wage and the minimum income. the real theme of the debate should be more europe for more quality jobs, decent, higher wages, social justice and a sustainable economy for the benefit of all. a competitive economy that is not socially and environmentally responsible is not the way to a decent future, least of all for the most exploited and disadvantaged. it is in the name of competitiveness that we have come to practices such as 'outsourcing' - outsourcing of employees until recently. this debate should really be about finding ways to prevent the ever-new cases of precarization that hotel maids in slovenia are fighting against, for themselves and for all of us, these very days.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, what is happening with the trafficking of children by networks involved in illegal adoptions outside the european union is forcing this parliament to take action. equally important, there are many families who would like to offer love to children in orphanages and welfare systems within the european union. unfortunately, these families are frustrated by the tremendous bureaucratic hurdles and the complicated and time-consuming procedures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the adoption of children is not delayed, and that the adoption of children is not delayed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in all member states. adoption is a matter close to my heart for personal reasons. as a member of the european parliament, i feel that the european union, our family, needs to take some initiatives together with the european commission. there is a need for transparency around cross-border adoptions, to reduce red tape, to eliminate conflict of laws and to promote a smooth process of recognition of adoptions between member states.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in all countries facing crises, whether they are caused by natural disasters, such as the recent disastrous earthquake in turkey and syria, or by war, the children, often left alone, are always the ones who pay the highest price, and they risk ending up in the hands of unscrupulous criminal organizations which take advantage of such situations to fuel their despicable trafficking and facilitate illegal adoptions. in the field of crossborder adoptions from third countries, the european union must therefore, in the context of its external action, ensure that any decision concerning a child is always taken in accordance with the principle of the child's best interests and in accordance with the criteria laid down in the 1993 hague convention. it is therefore necessary to provide means to strengthen controls, ensure the process of identifying children separated from their families, facilitate the tracing of next of kin and ensure, also in cross-border adoptions, that these particularly vulnerable children are fully protected.
mr. president, please! children are our future. i know it sounds cliché, but it's really that simple. at the same time, these children, as the most vulnerable members of society, are left to our decisions to take measures to ensure their safety. intercountry adoptions are undoubtedly very noble and it is right that we ensure the right conditions for them. if not, we allow the possibility of illegality, consequently of human rights violations, and above all of serious crimes with devastating consequences in the lives of victims. however, there is no uniform legislative framework or mechanism at union level to address the prevention of potential trafficking in intercountry adoptions. who knows how many cases like this have gone unnoticed before? the commission has been blaming the member states for years for the lack of legislation, and there are plenty of excuses for who is competent and who is not. let's all take responsibility and act, or we won't pay the price. the children will pay for it. our future. does that still sound cliché? it's that simple.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. the small bee has brought together over a million people, citizens of the european union, who are aware of the importance of bees for biodiversity and our daily lives and health. it is clear that food security cannot be used as an excuse to endanger people and natural ecosystems. citizens are demanding a sustainable and resilient future and protection from pesticides in the air, soil and water. so we must end here and now the futility of reducing and eliminating the most dangerous pesticides, because we have a whole bunch of legislative proposals on the table. however, member states must adopt the set of measures proposed by the commission under the renewed initiative for the protection of pollinators. at the same time, i am glad that both citizens and politicians are already aware of the importance of bees. and here i have to commend slovenia for its initiative for world bee day, which has been successfully completed. the fact is, without bees, there is no sustainable agriculture and no healthy living environment.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, madam commissioner, madam or mr absent council, i can see the member states are very interested in this debate. not. today, we are talking about lack of sincere cooperation, which is essentially euro-speak for stonewalling or even omertà, as i would call it. don’t be fooled by all the nice words that the council and the commission speak about european values, because they are all complicit and guilty of defending a very sick system: a system which is made for the destruction of democracy and an attack on fundamental rights. not only do they refuse to cooperate, they are actually actively seeking to silence the european parliament, including its rapporteur. but i have bad news for them: i am not susceptible to pressure. sorry. the european commission has acted in times of crisis with determination: the financial crisis, pandemic war, inflation, what have you. but when we are facing a full blown crisis of the rule of law and democracy, the european commission is silent and looks the other way. it allows gross violations of fundamental rights and of eu legislation, such as export rules or the eprivacy regulation. so the european commission does have the power to launch infringement proceedings, and if it doesn’t, it amounts to a failure to act. the commission stubbornly works on the pretence of compliance, colleagues. not the presumption of compliance, the pretence of compliance by the member state. it knows full well that the member states are breaking the rules. when i hear the commission say that it condemns the illegitimate use of spyware, i think, ‘oh dear, now that is going to frighten the perpetrators.’ you put forward action plans for democracy and what have you. that’s all fine and dandy, but it is pretty useless against deliberate attacks on democracy by eu governments and government parties. so it is up to us, to the european parliament colleagues, to keep this point on the agenda and make sure that the attacks on democracy end.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, i say to the commissioner that we have to stop this theatre of pretending the commission collaborates with the parliament. there is no collaboration at all. it's an operation to cover up the scandals. i am surprised you are talking about individual cases. well, they were spying on two members of the european parliament. this is not an individual case. this has to do with democracy. in greece, they were spying on 100 people, the ministers, the chief of the military. you know, the prime minister was spying on his sister, his nephew, the sister of your nephew, everybody. this is not an individual case. and ms ursula von der leyen said nothing about that. mute! there is nothing she did not understand. no, she understood very well. we went to greece. it was a theater of public relations, but we had no answers. you have to tell ms von der leyen to stop covering up the scandal in greece and in other member states. and it must stop covering up the scandal of mr mitsotákis just because they belong to the same political family. this is the same, and it must be stopped.
mr president, madam commissioner, i share the disappointment of the chairman of the committee, mr lenaers, but i will make it even clearer: there is a boycott from within. neither the commission nor the member states have any real interest in knowing, investigating and acting. on monday there will be a mission to spain, but even today, four days before, the members of the committee do not know who they will meet. will they meet with the spanish government or not? the spanish parliament, or not? this is unacceptable and shows the utter inaction of the european union authorities. there is a very serious threat. the use of such spyware and the excuse of national security have inhibitory effects on democracy. it is to create a kind of faraday cage which protects the authorities of the states and the european union from the effects of democracy. and that is unacceptable.
mr president, i am very pleased to be able to comment on this point. i listened very carefully to the speeches of the chairman of the committee of inquiry and the other members and i am shocked. i really think it is very serious that there is an investigation of such a serious matter as the misuse of pegasus and similar software, and more or less the member states and the commission are not cooperating enough. after all, the misuse of such spyware directly threatens a fundamental european value, the rule of law. it directly threatens fundamental human rights and we should do everything we can, the member states, parliament and the commission, to investigate this and prevent it in the future, so that there are clear legal and institutional guarantees for the citizens of the european union that this will not happen, that it will not be possible to legally abuse the pegasus software and similar systems. i therefore ask the commissioner not to bring this up, not to end this by simply having this emotional debate in the plenary, but to ask all of us, when parliament is investigating violations of the fundamental values of the european union, to do what we can to work together and try to find a solution. if we turn a blind eye to this, the rule of law will be degraded and one of the fundamental values of european integration will be threatened.
mr president, dear commissioner, you have heard our colleagues and it seems completely clear: what we need is to protect our eu citizens from the illegal use of spyware, and the action of the european commission is badly needed. firstly, the commission must start an infringement procedure against governments which illegally surveilled on their citizens. thanks to the work of the pega committee, we see several examples of member states’ governments, or of the bodies of those governments, which used spyware illegally against their own citizens. spying on political opponents during election campaigns or on independent prosecutors cannot be justified by any national security matters. secondly, there exists an urgent need to establish a european tech lab to protect upcoming elections this year, 2023, because in several member states, the opposition leaders, journalists, lawyers were surveilled by pegasus or by predator or by other systems. and this is not only a scandal, and it is not only a serious harm to their private and professional life, but it might have influenced the result of the elections. it is a serious threat to democracy if this year the same thing repeats in the member states that are concerned. so i really know what i am talking about and we rely on the european commission that it will act and it will not look the other way, as sophia in 't veld said, that it will see to it that the next elections are honest, transparent and not surveilled illegally.
mr. president, i have to ask you... dear members of the committee! national security is the exclusive competence of the member states. the european parliament is acting outside the law when it investigates national security issues, when it produces a report, when it organizes a visit to our country. in the absence of scope, it is clear that the investigation is politically motivated. but we're being honest, it could be about sovereignty. it is sad that the principle of loyal cooperation is now being used by the european parliament to make up for the lack of its powers. you believe that the eu institutions have only rights and the member states only obligations. the reality is that loyal cooperation is just as much a burden for the institutions towards the member states as it is for the institutions towards the member states. more respect for the treaties, more respect for nation states and more respect for the voters!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in a democratic parliamentary system it is normal that there is a constructive rivalry between the representatives of the citizens here in the parliamentary framework and the representation of the state sector, the executive by the european commission, in our european union. but it is important that we live it, because it also balances things, and it is also what we defend and represent on a global level, what we wish for all people: to be able to live in a democratic parliamentary system. if i have to make some criticisms of the european commission from a parliamentary point of view, i must admit that commissioner mcguinness, who is here today, is not the person to whom such criticisms are addressed. she is an experienced parliamentarian, she has been a member of this house, she was elected by the citizens and she appreciates parliamentarism. but it is not long ago that a commissioner in this house, in a speech by a member of parliament, in a series of speeches by members of parliament, is said to have said to his sitting-mate: how many idiots are left to speak? he then admitted that he meant it differently. in the same plenary session, a member of the european commission showed a member of parliament the famous windscreen wiper. it is not possible, and it is not possible, that the representation of the citizens is in some way planted, as we say in austria, by simply not answering legitimate questions for the citizens by the member states' parliamentarians and then the european commission does nothing.
mr. chairman, i do consider this approach by our democratic governments to the use of spyware to be indefensible. it's an incredible scandal when our democratic governments use this software against their own citizens, even against their own opposition, as many indications suggest. and i think there's also an incredible approach by the european institutions. the silence you hear when it comes to how to proceed in this case, when the european commission, as guardian of the treaties, should be much more active. i think that's in contrast to our approach, where we've involved civil society, independent associations, in our investigation. i think that the member states should give the european parliament far more cooperation. and so i was shocked by the information that even my country, the czech republic, for example, had not provided the necessary cooperation. this is indeed very alarming from a state that considers itself a democratic state of law.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for this debate. i just want to reiterate that the commission has followed the work of the pega committee with great attention. it has taken the matter very seriously and has always acted in sincere cooperation vis-à-vis the parliament. there are, nonetheless, limits to the competence of the commission that must be acknowledged, just as i, as a former member of this house, acknowledge the strength of the contributions in this debate.
this debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 11.51)
we will come to the votes. but first i have received several requests for points of order and i ask the colleagues who asked for a point of order to be brief: one minute speaking time.
mr president, honourable members of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! on sunday the 12th, we marked the 20th anniversary of the death of serbian prime minister zoran đinđić. the death of a great democrat and a proven champion of the european idea was a major blow to democracy in serbia and the western balkans. although the anniversary was marked by a commemoration of my colleagues from the s&d group, for which i thank them, i think it is appropriate that at the end of this plenary session this house of european democracy should remember this great man.
thank you so much. every decent man takes responsibility for his actions, right? if they're illegal, he takes responsibility. get out of the way. and what does the management of rtv slovenia do? director general andrej grah whatmough is proven in court illegally in office. he's not going to quit. former tv director natalia gorshchak was proven in court unlawfully dismissed. her successor, uroš urbani, will not resign. the rtv employees are going on strike next week. - there you go. with good reason, of course. because the leadership doesn't want to take responsibility. because they don't want to end this agony, because they don't want to admit that they're unworthy, unworthy of their position. capable only of disrupting journalistic work, ground-breaking employee mobbing and subversion of public service. i'll end with the words of the journalist of vala 202 natasha stefa, because with them she said everything that we must also take into account. i say, "we don't need your sympathy. make it legal and standard. or the last one not only turns off the tv, but the lights. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! my fellow colleagues, my colleagues! my dear commissioner! the revised aviation emissions trading directive is an important part of the reduction of emissions into the atmosphere. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the rules on state aid. at the same time, it is a fact that a developed and accessible transport infrastructure is the foundation of our social and economic development. it is therefore essential to maintain and strengthen connectivity while making it environmentally and climate-friendly. this directive will finally help aviation to do its fair share of reducing emissions and also of other climate challenges. the key element will be the abolition of free allowances from 2026, which will lead to increased revenue from aviation emissions trading to support measures to reduce the climate impact of aviation. after 15 years of aviation being included in the emissions trading system, we will also take non-carbon emissions into account for the first time. these have at least as much of a negative impact as co2 emissions. this includes the greenhouse effect of condensation trails from airplanes, which practically everyone can see in the sky. i expect broad support for the legislative proposal when we vote tomorrow, as it delivers on the european union's climate ambitions, preserves european aviation connectivity and mobility, and also offers incentives for the development of advanced technologies that are essential for decarbonising the aviation sector, including in particular sustainable aviation fuels.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. with the passage of this package of legislation, we are entering a new phase of our tightened climate policy, and in a very difficult situation: post-pandemic, in the midst of ongoing war and increasing pressure from immigration. this is the stage where we see more and more the high costs of this transformation, the rising costs for citizens as well. and citizens have already noticed this: not only in poland, but in germany, in the netherlands, everywhere. the costs of this transformation will be even greater. this is particularly the case for ets 2, which will cover private road transport and buildings as early as 2027. experts remain very sceptical about whether it will actually be possible to control prices in ets 2. the ets 2 will hit hardest in the eu's lowest gdp countries, where most consumers heat their homes with fossil fuels, coal or gas, and where electromobility is underdeveloped. eu funds are not sufficient to compensate for the costs of the transformation. wealthy nations will be able to provide additional support for their citizens. they're already doing it. the result of such a policy of coercion will be dangerous economic disparities and growing social discontent.
mr president, commissioner, the revision of the ets directive and the introduction of the cbam are two of the key pillars for achieving the 55% reduction in co2 emissions. they are intended to act as a lever to accelerate the decarbonisation and innovation of our industrial system, while at the same time preventing extra-eu production, not subject to emission control and reduction mechanisms, from displacing domestic competition with lower production costs. the creation of a social climate fund is also an important instrument for a fairer transition. in this positive context, however, some concerns remain about the extension of the ets to transport and buildings. i understand the need to secure financial resources for the new climate fund, but the commission will have to ensure that these measures do not penalise the citizens, the last link in the chain, particularly those in the most vulnerable groups, who should be supported by the new fund.
mr. chairman, please! my colleagues! the honourable commissioner! the fit for 55 package, or 55% reduction in emissions, is clearly an ambitious and comprehensive response by the european union to the challenges of climate change, which threaten not only our environment and well-being, but also our lives. as a member of itre, i contributed my share to the carbon border adjustment mechanism, or cbam. it must ensure a fair price for carbon in the products we import into the european market and be a tool to encourage non-european countries and manufacturers to follow our high climate targets. it must also be a safeguard against carbon dumping and ensure a level playing field for all on the market. but let us not forget that with this really comprehensive legislative framework, the work is not finished. instead, implementation follows with all the challenges that it brings. it is the responsibility of this parliament, the commission and the member states to respond to identified shortcomings in an up-to-date manner. some solutions will prove inadequate or even flawed. this must be followed by rapid and appropriate updating of legislation in line with the climate objectives set, the needs of european industry and the changes around us.
mr president, the hard line of prime minister meloni is immoral. it is the face of the extreme right, of the reactionary and xenophobic policies of europe that are most opposed to solidarity. we cannot turn a blind eye to the large number of people dying on europe's doorstep. we cannot turn a blind eye to the shameful agreements with libya, turkey or morocco. the refusal of humanitarian aid to refugees by many member states, as italy does, is a violation of human rights. no one deserves to be punished for reaching out to a human being at risk of life. when the european union's humanitarian policies fail, when many turn a blind eye, the far right takes its place, as in italy. president meloni has banned multiple rescues, with high penalties and seizure of vessels - what a shameful situation for europe! we denounce this inhuman rage against migrants. it is urgent to put an end to these unsolidarity and racist messages that are hidden in europe, and also in the european parliament.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, let us recall that, first and foremost, we have spoken tonight about saving lives at sea. men, women, children – every loss of life is a tragedy. the legal and moral obligation to rescue and to ensure the safety of life at sea is clear. irrespective of the situation that led people to be in a situation of distress at sea. recent incidents showed that we need to advance on both. first, immediate operational measures. second, as well as the renewal of the eu’s legislative framework in the form of the pact on migration and asylum. we must coordinate our actions to prevent irregular departures, tackle the criminal business of smugglers and save lives at sea. we all know the stakes. we must give immediate responses. we must first work closer together at the european level, making full use of the relaunched search and rescue group, and we must also work jointly and closely with our partner countries. for a comprehensive and sustainable solution, the pact is the only answer with its effective solidarity mechanism catering specifically for search and rescue cases, we cannot keep improvising every time we are confronted with complex migration challenges. the pact includes the key measures to manage migration better, to prevent loss of life in the mediterranean, to step up legal pathways, resettlement and labour migration, to reassure the citizens of the most affected areas by properly managing migration, to prove that we can do better, that we are stronger united, and this is the only way forward.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you for this debate. these discussions are a clear demonstration of how complex our current migration challenges are. there is no doubt that the situation in the mediterranean must be dealt with in an effective and timely manner, in accordance with european and international law. foremost for a humanitarian perspective. as i have already underlined, the presidency intends to continue pursuing a holistic approach to migration and balance between solidarity and responsibility. this should also be the basis for future legislation to be agreed with you in within the framework of the pact on migration and asylum. i can only stress once again that the importance that both legislators work very closely together in this effort. and i think recent progress in the parliament, as well as our negotiations in the council, show that we are going in the right direction together. we all need to compromise. that is nothing new. but that will be the key to having a new package in place by the end of this term, and i am hopeful that we can still reach that. thank you very much for your attention and thank you for the debate.
this conversation is over.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on eu relations with iraq (2023/2639 ((rsp)).
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, 20 years after the toppling of saddam hussein’s regime, aggravated by a difficult post-da’esh period, iraq advances on its path from conflict to stabilisation, development and prosperity. iraq’s achievements are impressive, ranging from the territorial defeat of da’esh to active contribution to reconciliation efforts between saudi arabia and iran, to holding free and fair elections in october 2021, which some of the honourable members of this european parliament had the opportunity to observe. understandably, important challenges remain, including in the area of human rights. today, the european union has an ambition to do more in and with iraq to support the positive momentum in the country and in the region. after a year-long, post-electoral political stalemate in iraq, the european union swiftly seized the opportunity to re-engage institutionally with the new government of prime minister al-sudani. the eu supports his ambitious reform agenda and fight against corruption as he tries to provide better services to all iraqis. we certainly welcome his first successes at home, including progress on the budget and on the gas and oil issue between baghdad and erbil and his extending of hand towards all neighbours. on 19 march, after a seven-year pause, high representative borrell succeeded in resuming the work of the eu-iraq ministerial cooperation council, together with foreign minister hussein, accompanied by an extensive ministerial delegation. it was the first such meeting after the entry into force of the partnership and cooperation agreement, which was concluded in 2018. this meeting helped to revive our dialogue on important regional and security issues and to set together a new ambition through a joint declaration on sustainable development, green transition, governance, regional connectivity and sustainable finance. at the cooperation council, we discussed openly more sensitive issues, such as migration. in particular, we talked about returns and readmissions, including involuntary returns, protection and forced displacement, anti-trafficking and sustainable reintegration. the eu welcomed iraq’s ban on flights to belarus – still in force – which effectively stopped migratory flows orchestrated by belarusian regime in summer 2021 along its borders with the european union. the union will continue to help iraq in coping with the remnants of its tumultuous past, such as the reintegration of its still 1.1 million internally displaced people, the handling of the returnees from the ad hoc camp in northern syria, or addressing multiple challenges to its unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity. we will remain active members of the anti-da’esh coalition. we will continue to support security sector reform in iraq through the european union advisory mission. we will also keep participating in regional de-escalation initiatives, such as the baghdad conference process, and the newly established sub-committee on development cooperation will certainly improve coordination and dialogue on assistance. honourable members, i am aware of your considerations to strengthen interparliamentary cooperation after a successful visit to iraq earlier this year, and i have no doubt that such dialogue could strengthen iraq’s democracy and promote deeper understanding between the european union and iraq.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, dear commissioner, i believe that last month's cooperation council meeting between the european union and iraq was a crucial opportunity to reactivate the highest level of bilateral engagement under the partnership and cooperation agreement after a seven-year pause. it is important to acknowledge iraq's efforts to foster regional dialogue and promote democracy, fundamental freedoms and human rights. as important trade partners, the eu and iraq should work together to strengthen bilateral trade relations and investments, including the production of renewable energy, and facilitate iraq's further integration into regional and global value chains. we should also welcome iraq's ambition to become a gas exporter and support its efforts to invest in this field. i believe our relations are a powerful driver for iraq's prosperity and that we share common approaches on many geopolitical issues, such as the fight against terrorism. looking ahead, i am optimistic about the future of our cooperation. we must remain committed to working closely together to achieve our shared goals and promote a more prosperous and stable future for iraq and the region.
madam president, commissioner, the european union and iraq have a long-standing partnership that has helped promote stability and security in the region. the european union has been one of the largest donors to iraq, providing significant financial and technical assistance worth over eur 1 billion since 2003. this aid has been instrumental in supporting iraq, in addressing the complex challenges it faces, including security threats, economic recovery and the ongoing humanitarian crisis. this includes the european union advisory mission, which still plays a key role in assisting the iraqi authorities in implementing the civilian security sector reform. i welcome the recent third meeting of the cooperation council of the european union and iraq, which reaffirmed our commitment to support iraq’s efforts towards political reform and economic rehabilitation. iraq now stands at a political and economic crossroads. we are ready to deepen our cooperation and to work with iraq on ensuring peace, stability and the development of the country.
madam president, the recent meetings of the cooperation council between the european union and iraq, after a seven-year hiatus, are good news. it marks the gradual return to normalcy of the situation in iraq after the terrible period of the fight against daesh. your report on the last meeting shows that relations with the new iraqi leadership are now constructive. in your statement you said: 'we condemn the attacks on the integrity of iraq.' but you did not name the aggressor. i will do it for you: it is the turkish army which is attacking iraqi territory and occupying part of it. it should be added that these aggressors, according to independent investigations, used chemical weapons on iraqi territory. condemning the attacks is not enough. we also need to condemn the aggressors. behind your caution lies a fundamental issue: the kurdish question. of all the states in the region, iraq is the only one which grants the kurdish people the benefit of full and effective autonomy. i ask the european union to support our iraqi partners in this regard and to encourage them to continue their policy towards the kurdish minority in the country.
madam president, like a number of colleagues here in the hemicycle, i was a member of the european parliament delegation to the eu election observation mission in iraq in 2021. and while it is true that the roots of democracy in iraq are shallow, they are certainly growing. there was a very low turnout, which showed the high level of frustration among the young people, especially those that protested after 2019. but 25 % of mps are female, thanks to affirmative action in the iraqi constitution. but an issue that cannot be ignored by the european union is that sometimes the interests of individual member states conflict with those of the european union and unfortunately, this is the case in iraq, where team europe is merely an aspiration. iraq deserves our support. iraq needs our support, but it needs and deserves a united eu voice.
madam chairman, if we're being honest, that didn't happen in this room during this conversation. we have to say that the european union has no great relationship with iraq, simply because there has not been such a state for a long time and there will not be. this country was destroyed under the pretext that it was looking for chemical weapons. i don't know if anyone found them. no, he didn't, and he probably didn't find them. there was no sanction for the attack on her, and that triggered the collapse of countries like iraq, like libya, like syria, which also triggered the topic of the previous debate, namely, a huge wave of migration to europe. and if i heard a lot of interesting things here, talk about democracy in iraq, about prosperity, about fair elections, that kind of thing, this is some other iraq, it's probably on another planet. it's not the one that's in the middle east as we know it. so while we're talking about this here, we're not going to find any right choice or any right solution for what's happening in this part of the world. and it's got to be honest, because situations like this one in iraq have been provoked, including by the tacit consent of this room, and that's led to the situation that we're in.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members, the eu-iraq partnership is important for the stability and prosperity not only for iraq but also of the wider region. a politically stable and economically strong iraq in this volatile region is of strategic importance for the union and for the wider middle east. the union commends iraqi efforts to foster regional dialogue and will continue to encourage all actors to engage constructively in pursuit of regional cooperation and to fully respect iraq’s unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity. we are determined to develop further our strong partnership with iraq, especially in the current geopolitical context following russia’s war of aggression against ukraine. this includes both economic and political security dimensions. in this regard, the union’s strategic policy frameworks such as repowereu, the european green deal and the global gateway offer additional opportunities for enhanced cooperation and investment in iraq. therefore we encourage bolstering eu-iraq relations at all levels and in all formats. therefore we welcome the european parliament’s deliberations and outreach to strengthen interparliamentary relations with iraq.
this conversation is over.
the next item is the report by mr javi lópez, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the eu's rapid reaction capability, eu combat units and article 44 of the treaty on european union: future action (2022/2145 (ini)) (a9-0077/2023).
the rapporteur. madam president, today in this parliament we are having an important debate on what will be a key instrument for strengthening our security and defence capabilities: the eu rapid deployment capability. this is a proposal by the high representative, josep borrell, following the frenzied and very problematic evacuation and exit from afghanistan during the summer of 2021, which brought to light some security deficiencies, such as not having a prepared own force from the european union to act quickly in a hostile environment. with this report, parliament sends a clear message of support for the creation and implementation of this eu rapid deployment capability, which will have at least 5 000 personnel who will be available on a continuous basis and who will be trained jointly, and which will also aim to become a permanent force. the capacity should be ready by 2025, have a twelve-month rotation, and respond and act within a five to ten-day notification period. the european parliament calls for the european treaties to be used to the full. this means that administrative expenditure is financed by the ordinary budget of the union and operational expenditure by the european peace fund, which we must strengthen and increase. the report proposes that decision-making and the use of article 44 of the treaty on european union should initially be done by unanimity, although constructive abstention is allowed, and that qualified majority voting could then be used for subsequent operational decisions. the report also deals with other very important issues, such as the need for a defence industrial base in the european union and the continuing strengthening of the eu's relationship with nato. we must understand this mechanism, this eu rapid deployment capability, as one more element of our cooperation within nato, and that it is necessary to overcome the current gaps in strategic enablers. we in parliament will continue to support the work of the high representative and we also welcome the fact that the first joint military exercise of this capability will take place during the second half of this year, during the spanish presidency. i do not want to end without thanking all the members and all the alternative rapporteurs for their work and contributions. i would like to thank in particular mr sikorski of the ppe group, mr nart of the renew group and mrs neumann of the greens/efa group for their contributions. i believe that their work, their suggestions and the joint discussions have made it possible to have a final proposal which is better than the first proposal, the initial proposal. this final proposal is balanced, ambitious and realistic. i would also like to thank all the technical teams in this house, in parliament and in the groups for their work. the brutal war - the invasion of ukraine, the withdrawal from afghanistan and the security of our neighbourhood - are provoking a real strategic awakening for the european union. and within this strategic awakening is this proposal for the eu rapid deployment capability to defend and protect our citizens, to defend our legitimate interests and our values in the world, to become a stronger ally within our atlantic alliance and to work for our necessary strategic autonomy in the world, with the will that europe becomes a true, effective, real and credible geopolitical actor in the world. a world full of competition to which we must adapt.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, on behalf of high representative borrell, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr lópez, and all meps who have contributed to this report that stresses the importance of establishing an eu rapid deployment capacity. the setting up of the eu rapid deployment capacity is one of the key tasks derived from the strategic compass and among its most visible and concrete deliverables. the eu rapid deployment capacity will enable the eu to act rapidly and robustly whenever a crisis erupts, with partners, if possible, and alone when necessary. as the report rightly considers, the rapid deployment capacity is crucial for closing the gap between the union’s level of ambition and its actual capabilities. events in recent years, such as the collapse of the government in afghanistan and the subsequent evacuation of kabul, have shown the need for the union to have means and capabilities to quickly react to such crisis situations. eu member states decided, with the strategic compass, that the eu rapid deployment capacity will be fully operational by 2025. it will consist of substantially modified eu battlegroups and pre-identified military forces and capabilities from the member states. in recent months, the union has taken concrete steps towards that goal. first, operational scenarios: in line with the strategic compass, the first two operational scenarios were adopted by the council in november 2022. these two documents outline how the union will concretely act in specific situations, such as rescue and evacuation operations or the initial phase of stabilisation. these operational scenarios, as you also indicate in the report, will be used for eu crisis management exercises, including live exercises. second, and related, conceptual framework: the ‘military rapid response concept’ was agreed by the eu military committee in march, providing a comprehensive guidebook on how to establish this eu capacity of up to 5 000 troops. work continues on the identification of the necessary capabilities, including strategic enablers. it goes without saying that coordination with nato will be of utmost importance. third, live exercise and financial solidarity / common costs: the eu will conduct its first full-fledged live exercise later this year. the eu has never done this before, so this will be an important step forward. the recent ad hoc decision to finance this exercise with the european peace facility will build solidarity, improve readiness and interoperability of our forces. in line with the strategic compass, work will follow on common financing of the eu rapid deployment capacity and the common costs of military csdp missions and operations. we fully support your calls to member states to show political will and provide adequate funds and the personnel needed to deliver on the eu rapid deployment capacity. fourth, the development of the military planning and conduct capability: the aim is making it the preferred eu command structure, including for the eu rapid deployment capacity, once it reaches full operational capacity, set for 2025. we are working towards enabling the military planning and conduct capability also to plan and conduct small-scale executive operations and exercises in line with the strategic compass. fifth, decision-making: all decisions about the eu rapid deployment capacity are adopted by the eu member states by unanimity, but we are also working to speed up decision-making. for example, discussions have advanced on the use of article 44 of the treaty of the european union to enable a group of willing and able member states to plan and conduct a mission or operation within the eu framework. one year after the adoption of the strategic compass, we can be satisfied with the substantial progress achieved, including with the development of the eu rapid deployment capacity. once again, allow me to thank you on behalf of high representative borrell for parliament’s support in all these efforts.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. three weeks ago, the foreign affairs committee met to discuss the lessons learned from 20 years of service in afghanistan. and one thing was clear, i think, across all the factions: the european union must be able to carry out an evacuation operation like the one in kabul in 2021 itself. this is precisely the purpose of this european union rapid reaction force. with up to 5000 soldiers, depending on the needs of the ground, air or naval forces, the intervention force will be tailored to the specific crisis context. it is thus qualitatively and quantitatively different from the eu battlegroups, which have been ready for action since 2007 but have never been deployed due to a lack of political will and financial solidarity. to ensure that the rapid response force does not suffer the same fate as its predecessor, some questions remain to be clarified. this is particularly the case with regard to cost sharing, the requirement to be operational in parallel with the nato response force and the command structure. the member states must now define the precise modalities quickly, ideally before the first exercise this year. in the end, ladies and gentlemen, the concept stands or falls with the real political will of the member states. the rapid reaction force is a milestone in the challenges facing european security and defence cooperation. this can and should be built on.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, commissioner, i am happy to support the great ini report by javi lópez and the almost unanimous decision of afet on this report. as we navigate in the ever-changing landscape of global security challenges, the european union must adapt and strengthen its capacities to react quickly, robustly and effectively to the conflicts and crises also outside of eu borders. the eu rapid deployment capacity can be a critical good component to our collective security that we can use in the future. the rapid deployment capacity can allow us to respond swiftly to crises beyond the borders, and examples for the evacuations can be very concrete targets that it can be used to. so it enables us to project stability in the areas where the conflicts threaten the regional security, not maybe only in africa, but 360 around us. such talks will include rescue and evacuation, initial entry and initial phase of stabilisation operators, operations, temporary reinforcement for other missions, and acting as a reserve force to secure exit. this capacity in the eu battlegroups, which are multinational and high readiness military units, can provide a flexible and rapid response force. i think the way forward is clear. we do not see the moral calm surroundings, but we can see the need for this one. so the thing that article 44 teu is not ever used is not the reason to make this better and be readiness for the use. and i am happy to also see that my country, finland, is participating for the exercises taken by spanish and french governments. so we have to enhance our military readiness, improve interoperability, foster closer cooperation among member states to ensure more effective and efficient eu capacity. together, we can shape our future of the citizens and contribute to global peace and stability.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, dear colleagues, when we speak about eu rapid deployment capacity, we first need to be realistic. lessons from the war in ukraine have sent modern military thinking back to the basics. the war in ukraine has shown how limited eu and the western military and defence industrial capabilities are. any idea of a double approach separating nato and eu capabilities is meaningless and counterproductive. even though the existing idea of eu battlegroups was good, it was very poorly or half-heartedly implemented. colleagues, this is not the way to form a modern military force. we need first to define the eu strategic ambitions. the goal is to enable the eu to act autonomously, militarily, without endangering nor weakening european defence enshrined in nato. this is the starting point from which we should develop eu battlegroups using nato capabilities to the greatest possible extent, at the same time enable the eu to act militarily and protect its interests. these would be actions limited geographically and in scope, such as the evacuation of eu citizens supporting eu csdp missions and the like. however, before doing this, we need to speed up our work on developing an eu civil-military chain of command, budgeting and logistics support of the eu rapid deployment capabilities. we also need to strengthen the interoperability of our armed forces and ensure regular and sufficient financing not only of our militaries, but also the necessary industrial capabilities to equip troops with modern military equipment.
madam president, the water crisis is here. shortages will multiply and create more tensions. the world, and our continent, must prepare for this crisis, which affects both the quantity and quality of available water. in the face of this, europe has been legislating for twenty years. the framework directive was supposed to protect water, restore ecosystems and reduce pollution by 2015. the result: by 2023, well half of the european union's rivers will not meet the minimum pollution standards. in addition to the ecological crisis, there is the health crisis caused by exposure to these dangerous substances. we must act, we must change our agricultural and industrial models, so that we are no longer dependent on these substances, which are harmful to health and to the soil. we must impose more drastic pollution thresholds and equip the control services with sufficient resources. and let's be clear: it is the polluters who should pay for the cleanup and water control, not the taxpayer, who is already poisoned every day. water is the messenger of climate change. while the drought of 2022 was one of the worst in the last five hundred years, addressing the quantity and quality of water is one of the main challenges facing our humanity.
madam chair, i think we can all agree that protecting the public's health is our top priority. we must move forward in line with new technology and research. in relation to the general strengthening of the european union's chemicals legislation, i would like to point out that farmers play one of the most important roles in preserving human health, drinking water and viable soils. and it's the farmers who feed us, and to ensure yields, they have to use some preservatives. it's not just the quantity, it's not just the quality, but it's the availability of food. farmers are certainly not opposed to more environmentally friendly farming and the use of fewer pesticides, and they are particularly looking forward to the recognition of new, more environmentally friendly preservatives and, of course, to the opening up of legislation to new genomic techniques and new breeding methods. so there's no objection to using bio-pesticides, but it has to be affordable. to give an example, the abolition of the neonicotinoid beet grouse exemption and the ban on insecticides have led beet growers in france, belgium and the czech republic to estimate a 15% drop in yields, and we are already seeing a rise in prices on the market. so, colleagues, i want to ask: yes, we protect people's health, but we also have to count. and i ask the commission whether it is addressing these impacts and whether it is also counting on accelerating new bio-preparations and new genomic technologies.
madam president, i have to go. clean water, safe food, uncontaminated finger, clean air. these are basic commodities that should be taken for granted. it is true that these are areas where the union is doing a lot. but we are somehow forgetting the regulation of chemicals, which has not changed much since 2006, when the still current reach regulation was adopted, and the commission has been ostensibly promising to revise it for three years. it seems that the bill will not be published until the last quarter of this year, just a few months before the election. so, these empty promises will obviously be just that for now. it's empty. meanwhile, humans and other organisms are exposed to harmful chemicals, the negative effects of which will last for decades. all the environmental and health measures that we have taken and are taking, they stand and fall on the unregulated areas that affect them. enough of this stalling. we need the reach revision proposal now, while we still have time to pass it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today's discussion has a message. it's a pre-earth day and post-water day debate, and it requires us to be part of the change that we want, that we want to make. while i agree with everything that's been said, i'd like to put it in a broader context. as rapporteur for the review of the water directives, i know that we can protect the environment by using more resources and by making a solidarity contribution from the private sector. we are now faced with the environmental and health consequences of the fact that there are over 20 000 chemicals registered and used daily in europe, while there are over 100 000 on the market. if we want to reduce the release of these chemicals into the soil and water, we need to change our lifestyles and also involve industry in control solutions. so we need to prevent pollution at source and distribute the costs more equitably between the public treasury and the private sector.
the commission has already done so. health is fundamental to peace and security, and health is a human right. we have already defined the international dimension of health. global health is an essential part of eu foreign policy, and the global health strategy is the external pillar of the european health union, an important building block in the global gateway, in team europe and - we must not forget - extremely important, of course, also in terms of the goals, the achievement of the sdgs towards 2030. last year, in the development committee, we emphasized the importance of global health in the strategic dialogue and called for and demanded action on this, and that is why we are here today to talk about the global health strategy. geopolitical rivalry, political competition and of course new partners in the global south -- all of this is coupled with climate change, with pollution, with land use change, with biodiversity loss and with antibiotic resistance and many, many other stories. these are the strategic, global health challenges. the eu can be a partner in this and we should be. multilateralism, skilled workers, new standards, medicines, technologies, many, many aspects that are extremely important. the age of pandemics is no longer a sequence from some science fiction movie, but we need to understand health truly globally and align our policies accordingly. let me say this, commissioner, please take this with you: what i lack is a strategy for post-acute infectious syndrome. that's a problem today. it's going to be an even bigger one. we must now complete the 20 guidelines of the global health strategy, cleanse and fill with life.
madam president, i have to go. it took the pandemic for the commission to present, after 13 years, a renewed global health strategy. but, well, at least we got her. it is well-placed and, if successfully implemented, will position the union as a leading force in healthcare on a geopolitical scale. i strongly support this, especially as the strategy is described as an external aspect of the european health union. now, does this mean that we are really, and not just ideologically, ready to establish a health union and to transfer health responsibilities from the member states? without it, it is difficult to devise strategies for establishing effective health systems, while within the union they suffer greatly, and in some cases even collapse. i believe in solidarity and i support helping all those in need, including, or especially, in health care. but in implementing strategies, we must not forget to manage our own problems.
in writing. i am delighted that the 10th anniversary debate on the state and the future of europe is taking place on europe day, with the prime minister of the federal republic of germany, one of the founding members of the eu. it is right to look at the state of the union realistically, with the necessary degree of criticism and self-criticism. more importantly, it is a source of pride to celebrate the level of cooperation and cohesion on the european continent that the founding fathers of the european union could only have dreamed of after the second world war. these are the dreams and visions we must remember even in times of continuous complex crises, which are most measurably reflected in the economy. we must not give in to the dictates of the market and capital, which create the impression that economic cooperation is the fundamental objective of our integration, when in reality the european union is primarily a means of ensuring prosperity, peace and unity. peace and unity, which are sorely lacking in the face of the war in ukraine and internal divisions, and which, without rational and courageous action, will be hard to pass on to future generations. i therefore appeal to you, mr prime minister, to make germany's efforts to bring about a ceasefire and an end to the war in ukraine even stronger, and to work together to find solutions for a future of peaceful and socially and environmentally sustainable development in ukraine and in all the countries of the european union.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, first of all, i want to express our condolences on behalf of the commission to all the victims and their families in the horrific shootings in serbia. we stood by the people of serbia, and we will continue to do that. and i think there is one very clear message we should all send: this violence must end. this illicit use of violence for whatever purpose must end. so coming to the report, i want to thank rapporteur bilčík for the work on the report and the very good cooperation i have had with him as rapporteur for serbia, and also his efforts that bore fruit with the return of the opposition to the parliament. so, mr bilčík, i think you will be remembered for the tremendous work that you have done as rapporteur for serbia. the last year has not been without challenges for the eu-serbia relations. it is, however, important and in the european union’s interest that we have continued engagement with serbia, supporting the country on its eu path. so far, 22 out of the 35 negotiating chapters have been opened in the accession negotiations. we are also applying the new methodology with serbia, something the country opted in. cluster 4 negotiations are underway. the commission assesses that serbia has fulfilled the opening benchmarks for cluster 3, on competitiveness and inclusive growth, and that this cluster is technically also ready for opening. the overall pace of accession negotiations will continue to depend on serbia’s progress in the area of the rule of law as it is enshrined in the new methodology. serbia’s non-alignment with the eu common foreign and security policy on sanctions against russia is, of course, a serious issue. nevertheless, the commission’s objective for 2023 has been and will remain to work together with serbia to achieve that. we welcome the government’s determination to pursue serbia’s strategic objective of joining the eu. serbia’s timely adoption of the legislation implementing last year’s constitutional amendments to strengthen the independence of the judiciary is an important progress in this area of the rule of law. we also welcome serbia’s recent steps on aligning with eu visa policy for the nationals of six countries that present the risk of irregular migration to the eu. a further positive development is the announced removal of market-distorting public procurement legislation. on the dialogue with pristina, the commission has welcomed the agreement on the path to normalisation of relations, which puts the eu facilitated dialogue on a solid, forward-looking path and paves the way for comprehensive normalisation. we now expect all provisions of the agreement and the annex to be implemented without delay. as it was stated by the european council in february this year, and i quote, ‘the european council urges both parties to implement fully and without conditions the obligations they committed to in the framework of the dialogue, including the agreements from the years 2013 and 2015 to create an association/community of serb majority municipalities.’ furthermore, we are also discussing with serbia how it can deliver tangible results in further priority areas such as media freedom, by ensuring greater media pluralism and tackling foreign information manipulation and disinformation. it is crucial that this work reflects the media strategy and brings serbia in line with the eu acquis. war crime prosecution also needs to be tackled. we are also engaging with serbia to deliver on priorities under cluster 4, on the green agenda and sustainable connectivity. our messages are clear: we expect serbia to align with eu policy on energy, unbundle its gas sector and diversify its energy supply. progress also requires that serbia ensures parliamentary work is organised and predictable, and that there is a national consensus on eu accession-related reforms. we also support the work of the european parliament and its follow up to the inter-party dialogue. the commission continues to help serbia with the implementation of the economic and investment plan for the western balkans, including support for gas interconnectors and the energy support package. to conclude, we strongly encourage serbia to provide strategic and more robust communication on the benefits of the eu to its citizens. the eu is and will remain serbia’s main political and economic partner, investor and donor and continues to support the country on its eu path.
on behalf of the ppe club. dear chair, dear commissioner, i would like first of all to express my condolences to the families of the victims of the recent violence that has struck serbia and that has struck all those who see in this act and in these days in which serbia is mourning its children a time for change. a time for change, a time for reflection and a time to think about when the violence will stop, when the glorification of violence will stop, when the glorification and rhetoric of violence will stop. i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr vladimir bilčík, on this demanding report. i would also like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for including my amendments in the final text of the report. serbia is making progress on its european path, but significant challenges still need to be addressed. this is particularly the case for alignment with our common foreign and security policy with regard to the sanctions regime against russia. it is very worrying that the level has fallen from last year's 65 percent to today's even lower 45 percent. we want serbia to be part of the european family, but it has to show a willingness to adhere to its values. the normalisation of relations with kosovo and the resolution of all ongoing bilateral issues with neighbouring countries are also important factors for serbia's progress. (the president interrupted the speaker.)
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. madam president, (the speaker is addressing a message in serbian) i express my shock at the mass killings that have taken place in the past few days in serbia. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and it has been asked to do so. we must send the right messages for a better future to all the citizens of this country. it is very important that the reforms in serbia are promoted in a transparent manner and in dialogue with all stakeholders, so that they bring about positive changes in the daily lives of all citizens of the country, especially young people. i recognize that difficulties remain and that there is still a lot of work to be done. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. my political group remains supportive of the country's european perspective and will insist on the need to promote reforms. we will continue to fight for democratic accountability, the rule of law, media freedom, the fight against corruption. i would like to conclude by saying that we fully support serbia's european perspective and are in favour of a peaceful future for all the country's inhabitants within the european family.
on behalf of the renew group. - madam president! last week, we were shocked by the mass shootings in serbia. the loss of innocent lives is always a tragedy, and i would like to express my sincere condolences to the families and people of serbia, and wish all those affected a speedy recovery. the eu must stand by the serbian people in these difficult times and commit itself to unconditional support for serbian society in its efforts to address the causes of the violence and prevent similar tragedies in the future. the report, the last in this reference, paints a rather bleak picture of serbia as a candidate country. progress is limited or simply not there. the gap between the commitments made and their implementation continues to widen. legislation is harmonised at european level, but implementation is even earlier. there are too many examples of this. perhaps the most prominent example is the case of the removal of prosecutors who were prosecuting corruption in elektroprivreda srbije. the case illustrates that judicial independence is still an unrealized goal despite constitutional legislative changes. the situation in the media is similarly dire, with the dominance of the state-owned telecommunications company, whose business practices are, to put it mildly, unusual from the point of view of competition protection, being strengthened. and this indicates the position of regulators, including rem, who remain more or less enforcers rather than supervisors and decision-makers. that i am not at a loss for words about business games in the national assembly, which are not within the reach of this high body. but there are symptoms. the reason lies in the fact that the current serbian leadership is satisfied with such a situation. there is no sincere desire on the part of the serbian regions to move closer and join the eu and thus improve the welfare of their citizens. for them, the eu is just one stage in a series of internal and external political battles. and as long as that's the case, there's not going to be any real progress. until then, we'll be talking about the same topics, the same issues, the same scandals. thank you so much.
the reporter. madam president, thank you for your speech. commissioner sinkevičius, ladies and gentlemen, the increasing chemisation of the natural environment is one of the most demanding consequences of the lives of modern societies and of individuals and individuals associated mainly with industrial and agricultural production. unfortunately, water has become a dumping ground for man-made chemicals that threaten not only ecosystems and nature as a whole but also our health and life itself. too often, we are not aware of this at member state and european union level, as clean and potable water is almost taken for granted by the majority of our society. in the 20 years since the water framework directive came into force, the european commission has done important work in its efforts to ensure the protection of water resources at union level. the zero pollution action plan provides for additional and strengthened commitments by the european union to an environment free of toxic substances. the current review of water legislation is expected to contribute to the concrete realisation of this ambition. we therefore need a legislative framework that will: firstly, ensure a timely response to the increasing presence of modern pollutants in the environment; secondly, strengthen cooperation and operational support at eu level; thirdly, allow polluters to contribute their fair share to the prevention and control of pollution; and fourthly, provide access to justice in cases where national authorities fail to comply with their obligations under the provisions of the water framework directive. i am pleased that the amendments to the legislative proposal have the extremely broad support of the committee on the environment. we agree: (a) to go one step further in addressing microplastic and antimicrobial resistance contamination; (b) to enable control of complex chemical mixtures and their effects on water quality as soon as possible; and (c) to protect our people as much as possible from so-called polymer chemicals (pfas) and to further strengthen control of glyphosate concentrations. the latter is found in surface waters throughout europe, and pollution with this herbicide poses a major threat to aquatic life and causes unnecessary costs. increasing pressure on water resources is also posing a growing financial challenge to citizens and to member states, which already spend as much as €100 billion a year on water and sanitation. we therefore need to do more on preventive measures and i am convinced that the current review of the water legislation can be a great opportunity to do so. finally, i would like to express my sincere thanks to all the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation, and to all the political advisers and advisers, all the colleagues and our assistants and assistants for their diligent work in preparing the technical and substantive additions to this report.
the reporter. madam president i would like to thank all my colleagues and commissioner sinkevičius for their contributions to this debate. i believe that we are sending a clear signal that water protection must be our common project and high on the political agenda of the european union. i am confident that we can confirm this unity in the european parliament definitively in tomorrow's vote. protected water means protecting human health, means protecting natural habitats and is an indispensable means of ensuring food security, especially in the light of the water supply crisis resulting from climate change with severe and prolonged dry periods. ahead of this year's united nations water conference in new york, the union committed itself to achieving good status for all eu water bodies by 2027. at present, only 40 percent of surface water bodies are in good chemical or ecological condition. as the deadline is practically around the corner, i hope that by the end of this session the european parliament will have reached agreement with the member states on further improvements to the existing legislative proposal and on the highest possible standards for the control of water pollution, which will make a significant contribution to ensuring human health and the natural environment. i hope that we will strengthen our common ambitions and achieve common goals, recognising that good water management is important for the planet, for people and for economic, social and sustainable development.
madam president, according to united nations data, more than 10 000 people have been killed in gaza since 7 october: 2 550 women, 4 104 children, 596 elderly people; more than 25 400 injured. in all, about 1,400 israelites and foreigners were killed in israel. according to israeli authorities, the vast majority of them in the early days of hamas attacks. from the outset, the united nations, through its secretary-general, has called for the establishment of permanent humanitarian corridors in the gaza strip. the european union, at the leaders' summit in late october, called for the creation of corridors and humanitarian breaks as well. as parliament's permanent rapporteur on humanitarian aid, i call for the conditions to be created for the immediate implementation of humanitarian breaks, which should lead to the creation of permanent humanitarian corridors. i also call for the security conditions to be ensured for humanitarian actors on the ground, where almost 90 operatives have been killed, the highest number of casualties in the context of conflict in the history of the united nations. israel has been the victim of a barbaric terrorist attack by hamas, it has the right to defend itself, but no one has the right to be above international law and humanitarian law.
madam president, i want to repeat my abhorrence at the atrocities committed by hamas on 7 october, and what has been done since then by the israeli defence forces is not proportionate. i grew up in ireland; over 30 years of the conflict on the island of ireland, 3 500 people were killed, each one a tragedy. in one month, 4 000 children have been killed in palestine. how is that proportionate? thousands more have suffered life-changing injuries and trauma. those who have not been killed or injured are denied the basic necessities of life: fuel, food, water and electricity. how can that be proportionate? i call on other meps to co-sign my request for a review of the eu–israel association agreement, article 2 of which makes respect for human rights and democratic principles an essential element of that agreement. it was the government of israel that suspended part of that agreement in 2013. why is it so radical for the eu to review that agreement, given everything that has happened? it is never too late to do the right thing.
madam president, i join those who cry out for the pain caused by that humanitarian tragedy in gaza. they condemn the violence inflicted on innocent people, whether israelis victims of hamas or palestinians victims of the israeli military response. but speaking of humanitarian tragedies that are beyond our jurisdiction, i would also like to point out that there are some humanitarian tragedies that do come within our jurisdiction and require a european response. the humanitarian tragedy of the lives lost at sea and the call for a european rescue and rescue mechanism for which we have urged the commission so much since this european parliament. in the same way, people who knock on the door of the european union are asking for a more humane response and are confronted with fragmentary responses that lead to absolutely wrong steps, such as the one we have seen in the agreement between the meloni government and albania to create internment camps outside the european union. let us be consistent, let us offer a humanitarian response within the migration and asylum pact and complete that pact in this legislature.
- mrs. president, please. in the next minute, i will be a major critic of the state of israel and will not allow anyone to equate this with anti-semitism. i'll allow even less of a tie-up with hamas support. i condemn everything these terrorists do. i condemn all murders of innocents. i condemn the violation of international law. i condemn our eternal anxiety and our eternal double standards. where's the decisive pressure? where are the concrete measures? of course, israel has a right to defend itself, but that right is not a white knight to kill palestinians and palestinian children, not a right to bomb every corner. you know what i'd say? it would count as unconditional support only to innocent victims. only the seizure for an immediate ceasefire and, if the latter is not enforced, for sanctions, for example, to start banning trade and cooperation with illegal israeli settlements, which have been going on for a long time, by the way, since the current war. so when, if not now? of the 10,000 dead, a hundred, a million? that would count. - right now.
i would like to invite commissioner olivér várhelyi to give his speech at the beginning of this debate (2023/2956 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, today we adopted a big enlargement package, ten country reports and a growth plan for the western balkans. the commission recommends that the council opens accession negotiations with ukraine and moldova. the commission recommends opening accession negotiations with bosnia and herzegovina once the necessary degree of compliance with the membership criteria is achieved. further, we recommend to grant candidate status to georgia on the understanding that certain steps are taken. for ukraine and moldova, we also recommend that the council adopts the negotiating framework once ukraine and moldova have advanced on pending laws and on anti-corruption, verification of assets and undertaken further steps on de-oligarchisation. both will have to continue to fight against corruption by building a further track record or corruption investigations and convictions. on national minorities, ukraine needs to address the remaining venice commission recommendation from 2023, june and october, linked to the law on national minorities. ukraine also needs to address the venice commission recommendations linked to the laws on state language, media and education. in the case of ukraine and moldova, the commission will continuously monitor the progress and compliance in all areas related to the opening of negotiations and report back to the council by march 2024. the commission stands ready to start preparatory work, in particular the analytical examination of the acquis, the so-called screening process, and the preparation of the negotiating framework. in georgia, we have seen positive new dynamics of engagement with the eu in the recent months, specifically on the 12 priorities set out by the european council last year. therefore, the commission recommends that the council grants georgia the status of candidate country on the understanding that further steps are taken on fighting disinformation, on alignment with cfsp, improving the implementation of parliamentary oversight, addressing the issue of political polarisation, de-oligarchisation and anti-corruption. turning now to bosnia and herzegovina, last year’s candidate status brought much needed dynamism. new governments have been set up swiftly after the elections at all levels and have started to deliver on reforms. the public commitment of political parties to the strategic goal of european integration brought positive results. the council of ministers endorsed a set of draft laws, notably on integrity in the judiciary, torture prevention by designating the ombudsman as a national preventive mechanism, the law on foreigners and freedom of access to information. these were adopted already by the parliament. the europol contact point has started to function, which was a much-awaited progress. some progress was made on the alignment with the cfsp, and bosnia and herzegovina significantly improved its alignment with eu foreign policy. further, i could continue with a long list of positive developments over the past year, like important strategies that have been adopted on anti-money laundering, action plans on migration and terrorism, or the implementation of the national war crimes processing strategy. the state budget for 2023 was adopted in march. the legal basis for conducting negotiations on the southern and eastern gas interconnections and the cooperation agreement with eurojust were adopted as well, and two regional mobility agreements were ratified. the commission encourages the political leaders and all authorities to continue the positive track record, to redouble efforts to address all remaining key priorities. the commission recommends the opening of accession negotiations with bosnia and herzegovina once the necessary degree of compliance with the membership criteria is achieved. we will report to the council on progress by march 2024. before turning to albania, let me say a few words on the screening process with both countries, albania and north macedonia. the process is running smoothly and the authorities have shown a high level of commitment. in albania, the implementation of the comprehensive justice reform continued and the vetting process is advancing at a satisfactory level. the special structure against corruption and organised crime – the so-called spak – achieved further concrete results. full alignment with common foreign and security policy was a strong signal of the country’s strategic choice of eu accession. further efforts are needed in key areas of rule of law, as well as on the freedom of expression, minority issues and property rights. our objective is to open the first cluster on the fundamentals still before the end of the year. in north macedonia, the authorities have continued to demonstrate and to declare publicly their commitment to advancing on their eu path. now that the accession negotiation process has begun, the pace of eu-related reforms needs to pick up. some changes to the criminal code, affecting a large number of high-level corruption cases, have raised concerns. strengthening trust in the justice system and addressing corruption, including through a solid track record in the investigation, prosecution and final conviction of high-level corruption cases, is of key importance. parliament and the government committed to launch and achieve, as a matter of priority, the relevant constitutional changes. we hope all parties will support it to move forward. this is a sovereign decision of north macedonia and a sovereign commitment which will further strengthen fundamental rights. on montenegro, while progress on eu accession reforms has largely stalled, the newly appointed government must now focus on eu-related reforms and ensure that the country’s democratic institutions and judiciary become once more fully functional. meeting the interim benchmarks set in the rule of law chapters 23-24 will be key to achieve further progress in the negotiations overall. no further chapters will be provisionally closed before this milestone is reached. both kosovo and serbia are urged to engage more constructively in the eu-facilitated dialogue for the implementation of the agreement on the path to normalisation and the implementation annex, as well as other agreements reached in the eu-facilitated dialogue without any delay or precondition. this includes the establishment of the association or community of serb-majority municipalities. normalisation of relations is an essential condition on the european path for both parties. kosovo has progressed in legislative work and adopted an important electoral reform. kosovo continued to align with the eu on the condemnation of russia’s war of aggression against ukraine and to adopt restrictive measures. the situation in the north of kosovo has been affected by several crises, with the latest one being the attack against kosovo police on 24 september. due to the lack of steps to de-escalate, since june, the eu has been implementing measures vis-à-vis kosovo which also impact financial support. these measures are temporary and are dependent on the steps taken to de-escalate the tensions in the north of kosovo. finally, we will look forward for 1 january next year when visa liberalisation for kosovo will enter into effect. serbia started implementing the 2022 constitutional amendments to strengthen the independence of the judiciary. it also adopted important media laws in october 2023 before the dissolution of the parliament. our assessment in the last two reports that serbia has fulfilled the opening benchmarks for cluster 3 – competitiveness and inclusive growth – remains valid. the commission supports serbia’s ambition to open new accession clusters on the basis of continuing reform progress. we also acknowledge good cooperation on prevention of sanction circumvention, while the key issue of alignment with cfsp, including sanctions against russia, remain of a concern. let us turn now to the western balkans growth plan and the new facility. the aim of the plan is to boost the economy of the western balkans in the next years, in order to close the socio-economic gap between the union and our partners by the end of this decade. we want to gradually integrate the western balkans into the eu single market even prior to the full eu membership. secondly, we also aim to boost economic integration within the western balkan region through the common regional market based on eu rules and standards. the growth plan will help our western balkan partners to accelerate fundamental reforms, including the rule of law and democracy. they are needed for the swift rollout of the growth plan itself and attract private investments, promote sustainable economic growth, or to reduce pollution. lastly, we want to increase the financial assistance to help our partners to speed up the reforms through a reform and growth facility for the western balkans. this is a eur 6 billion package in eur 2 billion in non-repayable support grants and eur 4 billion in favourable loans. adding the growth facility to the assistance under the ipa iii will provide the western balkans with roughly the same aid intensity per inhabitant as cohesion policy does on average in the eu. the longer-term objective is to help the region to achieve its full potential in terms of economic and social development capacity compared to eu member states by 2030. the funds will be released upon delivery of reform agendas that our western balkan partners will have to draw up and which need to be agreed with us and be implemented during the period between 2024 and 2027. they will be related to socio-economic reforms and fundamentals: a stronger conditionality that this house has been advocating for. in short, the growth plan will create the right conditions for our regional partners to become members of the union. we need your support, in particular ensuring that the proposed regulation establishing the growth facility is adopted during this parliamentary term. i am ready to work with you on that in the next months. our partners need our support and i’m sure, together, we can deliver it to them. let me finish with türkiye. türkiye is a candidate country and a key partner for the eu. its accession negotiations remain at a standstill since june 2018, in line with the decisions of the european council as türkiye continued to move away from the eu. we conclude that the country has not reversed the negative trend of moving further away from the eu, and our concerns persist over backsliding in the areas of democracy, rule of law, fundamental rights and the independence of the judiciary. bilateral relations between greece and türkiye improved after the february earthquakes, and türkiye did not engage in unauthorised drilling activities in the eastern mediterranean. it is of paramount importance that türkiye actively supports the negotiations for a fair, comprehensive and viable settlement of the cyprus issue within the un framework in accordance with the relevant un security council resolutions. cooperation with türkiye in areas of joint interest continued in essential areas such as counter-terrorism, economy, energy, food security, migration and transport. the eu has a strategic interest in a stable and secure environment in the eastern mediterranean, and in the development of a cooperative and mutually beneficial relationship with türkiye. as you know, the commission and the high representative will submit a report to the european council in november this year, in which we will set out further options to develop this relationship.
on behalf of the s&d club, mr. chairman, commissioner, i welcome the commission's recommendations to open negotiations with ukraine and moldova and to grant georgia candidate status. i also support the plan for the growth of the western balkans. i welcome the renewal of enlargement policies and new proposals for sectoral inclusion of candidate countries before formal accession. they reflect the recommendations for a new enlargement strategy of the european union adopted by parliament. however, the package presented today contains controversies, particularly regarding serbia, whose president is actively exporting instability to the rest of the region, planning an election campaign with convicted war criminals and signing a trade agreement with china. the same restrictive measures, after banja, have not been imposed on serbia. the terrorist attack is being relativized, sanctions against russia are still not imposed, but it is therefore commended for the progress made by belgrade in alignment with the eu's foreign policy. in order for an enlargement policy to be successful, it must be credible and coherent. that is why bosnia and herzegovina deserves to start negotiations as soon as possible. additional financial instruments are welcome, but what we really need is real political determination to stop sponsoring stabilisation and pave the way for genuine reforms in line with european values.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, mr commissioner, dear colleagues, today is another important historical moment for ukraine and its brave people who, despite the absolute atrocities committed by the russian terrorist regime, continue to pursue their dream of european union membership and to implement a comprehensive programme of political, legal and economic reforms. we are united by our common dream and goal to bring ukraine, the republic of moldova, georgia and the western balkan countries into the european union as equal among equals. as we continue our strong support to these countries, let us not forget that the european union itself must prepare for future enlargement. we need to adapt the european union’s institutional financing and decision-making arrangements and this must be undertaken without any delay. let us take inspiration from candidate countries, like ukraine, and prepare our union to become not only geographically larger, but also economically, geopolitically stronger and more secure for our citizens. finally, let me commend the european commission for a very solid enlargement report with a clear geopolitical footprint.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr. chairman, if i don't fight you today, i feel you're already close. we're friends with you, but i can't help but point out the following fact. you are now talking about how democratic, how pro-european, pro-western serbia is, and right now, literally an hour ago, four bulgarian citizens, two people's representatives and a party chairman, are stopped at the bulgarian-serbian border and can't go in to see the bulgarians, the bulgarian minority in the occupied western bulgarian outskirts. that's happening right now. and i ask you, is this democracy and are these european values? the same is true of the serbian attitude and of the north macedonia issue. if we abstract from the paid pro-belgrade, pro-kremlin slogans we hear here in the hall, we wonder where the inclusion of bulgarians, croats and other communities in the constitution of the republic of north macedonia went. they should have been enrolled a year ago, right? those were the promises, but of course they didn't happen, because there are, i say, pro-serbian, pro-russian forces out there lying to you. i don't know why you're attached to these things. i know about some of my colleagues because it's understandable. the fifth wheel means a lot and speaks a lot, but that's another subject. so stories are a good thing, very good, democracy is a good thing, too, but facts are facts. please check the case. there are bulgarian citizens who are not allowed on the western bulgarian coast. and i've already asked you a question, so you can answer it directly.
madam president! the enlargement of the european union is of strategic and geopolitical interest to us. however, the enlargement is not just a political issue. the situation of countries in the run-up to accession negotiations shall be assessed on the basis of their preparedness and in accordance with a uniform system of requirements. before new accession negotiations can begin, the eu must first deliver on its promises to serbia in the western balkans, which has been negotiating with serbia for more than a decade without significant progress. this makes the union unreliable. to preserve our credibility, georgia must also be granted candidate status. new accession negotiations may only be opened with countries which fulfil the essential conditions laid down by the commission. the enlargement proposal presented today and i therefore congratulate the commissioner it is clear that ukraine has not yet met four of the seven conditions, including the conditions for the protection of minorities. there's a war going on in his territory, and he can't even hold an election. all of this proves that the country is not yet ready to start accession negotiations.
the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. as the rapporteur for ukraine here, i think i can say that we have today a historic commission decision proposing that ukraine enter into accession negotiations, and i am focusing on this country. i think it is remarkable that despite the russian invasion, this country is still on the reform course and is thus expressing where it belongs. and this message, which is coming from the commission today and which this parliament has been expressing for many years, is that ukraine is irrevocably on the european path and that there is no turning back as long as and in whatever form this russia is attacking the country in a war of aggression against international law. i think that if i look at what the commission has written in detail about this, what ukraine must also achieve by march in order to adopt the negotiating framework, then this is all possible despite the war. and we should give the country all the support we can. i am confident that this approach, which is to concretely promote enlargement with many other countries, will also trigger a debate within the european union, namely to improve reform and decision-making in such a way that we can then work together with the new countries towards a larger and more decision-making eu.
the commission has already adopted a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of workers' rights and the right to a fair trial. the peace that unfortunately is often compromised, with all the tragic consequences we see every day. the european union has reached out to ukraine over the past year and a half, and it deserves all our support and commitment, but we cannot forget the western balkans, which were promised a place in the european family 20 years ago. the european union is a country which is a member of the european union, and it is a country which is a member of the european union. at the same time, however, we must stand firm in demanding that the essential reforms be made, that the normalization of neighbourly relations be put first through an immediate de-escalation of tensions between serbia and kosovo. we must ask that the press not be drowned in russian or chinese propaganda and that they adopt the only possible foreign policy, the one supported by the european union working for peace.
madam president, mr commissioner, of course we should start by thanking you, because enlargement policy has not been the most popular in recent years in the european union. and yet you managed to bring her out on a very serious level. today, in addition to the traditional clichés in this room to talk about a plan, an economic plan that should be directed towards the social recovery of the western balkans countries primarily but also to others. if we're looking for news, there are actually two news. one news is for ukraine and moldova with the start of the negotiating process, and the other news is for georgia and bosnia and herzegovina. but i wouldn't rush to say it's a historic decision. if you have to assume that it's historical in terms of being included for the first time, yes, it's historical, but many other historical decisions we've made here and they've been left on paper. let us think seriously about how these countries can be gradually integrated into the european union and be realistic that enlargement will not happen today or tomorrow, but we must give them clear enough messages and concrete steps, actions to show the citizens of these countries that they will belong to the european union. and i welcome the proposal by roberto mezzolla, giving status to these countries, to their politicians, to be here with you, with us, without the right to vote.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues. it is indeed a historic date. and there are four clear winners on this historic date. there’s ukraine and moldova, where the leadership and the people together are moving in our direction. and there are two nations, the people of georgia and the people of bosnia and herzegovina, who have upheld the flame of going into the direction of a european orientation. we can congratulate them. but there’s also a new tone. and i want to highlight that. i share the criticism that my colleagues picula and moretti have said about the serbian case. i think this is also an hour where the whitewashing of serbia, where the appeasement against serbia, will begin to end. and i read this in the sentence from the president of the commission when she said that all countries have to take a choice between going the european direction or going the authoritarian direction. and you, commissioner, will not hold us back with your appeasement policies.
mr president, the debate on eu enlargement has been heightened by russia's war of aggression against ukraine. i support the westward orientation of the candidate countries. the eu and the international community will support ukraine until the russian troops are expelled from the territory of ukraine. russia must also withdraw from the occupied territories of georgia and moldova. i myself am reserved about the eu's too rapid enlargement. the expansion means additional pressure on membership fees for netpayers such as finland. the accession of new member states may further complicate eu decision-making. i think that candidate countries must meet all the criteria before we can talk about eu membership. this will require many economic and political reforms.
i congratulate the people of ukraine, the people of moldova, the people of georgia and the people of bosnia and herzegovina once again: croatia stands firmly behind you. i congratulate mrs borjani krišto on her dedicated and courageous work, which she has done in this short time, congratulate prime minister andrey plenkovic for fighting to the last to get bosnia and herzegovina to the conclusion that she has received, congratulate dr. dragan čović on everything she does - but i can't do it alone. i command dodic, i command the bosnians, sit down and make a deal. if the dayton peace agreement could be drafted in a few days, all of this could be fulfilled, bosnia and herzegovina could start negotiations. you have that obligation to the people you represent. you have an obligation to make a final settlement. sit down, make a deal and give andrey plenkovic a chance to finally cross this last bridge for you and put bosnia and herzegovina at the forefront where it belongs.
- mrs. president, please. the package in front of us doesn't tell us much. i myself am disappointed that the commission has not found a way to open negotiations with bosnia and herzegovina by the end of this year. this would be a political and, more importantly, given the importance of bosnia and herzegovina for the western balkans, a blue geopolitical move. the second concern is that the commission and the geopolitical world, faced with the increasing challenges facing the eu, still have not found the right balance between the geopolitical needs, enlargement and fundamental freedoms, the rule of law and the democratic principles that underlie the enlargement process. the foundations on which the european union and its prosperity are based. only growth plans will not solve the key social and economic dilemmas of the candidate countries. this remains a challenge to which the european union as a whole will have to respond in the future. this will probably be the task of the new parliament and the commission, of course, if we want the expansion and the expansion process to be a success story again and not a crash like we are in now.
- mrs. president, please. all the children, all the rights. the theme of this year's international day of children's rights is a testament to the many conflicts and crises in europe and its neighbourhood, far from reality. we cannot ignore the russian aggression in ukraine and the suffering of children as violence escalates in israel and palestine, especially in gaza. crises and conflicts are particularly negative for children because they threaten not only the quality of childhood but also the opportunities for children to reach their potential. so, more than words, our votes will be swept away. we have two resolutions on the table to reaffirm the urgent call for at least 20 billion additional funds by 2027 for the european children's guarantee and to prevent member states from tightening their belts at the expense of vulnerable groups of children in the future. in addition to targeted measures for the most vulnerable groups of children, it is essential to strengthen the resilience of children and their families in times of continuous new crises by investing in all available quality public services, by providing supplements for children and families and by developing quality jobs with appropriate working conditions and standard contracts that favour the harmonisation of professional and private life. adequate minimum wages and guaranteed minimum income constitute a minimum guarantee for a decent life for all children, even in the event that parents or guardians lose their jobs or are among the poorest of the working class. children are not directly represented in the european parliament, so we have a greater responsibility to ensure that we are all the voice of all children and that their best interests guide our debates and decisions.
madam president! european money is not unconditional. the traditional conditionality is that the money is allocated in agreement with the european commission, with high recognition in the structural funds and much greater rigor in the national reconstruction plans. but two countries have raised a legal dilemma. this is hungary and unfortunately my country, poland. but there's a difference. while i am critical of the polish government in recent years, the implementation of the structural funds from the perspective that i have planned for 2014-2020 has been quite decent. if we've been hit by an eastern plague called oligarchy, it's the management of the treasury. unfortunately, hungary is also affected by the use of european funds. and so it is no coincidence that hungary is the first and so far only country affected by the legal condition. they did not fulfil the horizontal enabling condition of the charter of fundamental rights. i really wish hungary and its people the full fulfilment of the conditions for the full use of the structural funds and the launch of the national reconstruction plans. in this case, it is necessary to act in such a way that there is no shadow of a suspicion that it is a political decision. they must be built on a solid foundation of our community's principles.
it's a question of cards. i'm sorry about my voice. do you agree, my colleague, that the roma in hungary, who have made very significant progress in recent years and the hungarian government has set an example for the other member states, are expected to do the same, do you agree that because of your baseless accusations these roma are dropped from their programmes? you are endangering our kindergartens, our schools, our university programs, our csok. these have given hope and jobs to very many poor people in hungary. do you agree that the roma in hungary, despite the fact that the european court of auditors...
please stay once more, because ms járóka would like to respond.
double card is the answer. my next question is, do you know how many segregated roma classes there were in hungary under your rule and how many there are today under orbán?
sorry, there are no more questions possible, because you just can’t do a statement. so this is over. i just let now, because you asked the question, mr rónai answer, but then it’s finished.
- mrs. president, please. we're talking about breaking the rule of law in hungary again. after all the resolutions passed, the last debates, we're back here. there was speculation that the commission would agree with the hungarian government to partially release the blocked funds. the freezing of hungarian voting rights under article 7, a very minimal measure, will not go anywhere in the council. the hungarian authorities, meanwhile, continue their actions which are in clear violation of the legal order and the fundamental treaties of the european union. the media subordinate, the judiciary subordinate, the regulators subordinate, all for the absolute and eternal orban. this is absurd in relation to a possible agreement between the commission and the hungarian government and i expect the commission and the council to reject these speculations decisively. not only has nothing improved in hungary during this time, it has gotten worse. recently, they proposed a new office to protect the sovereignty of the country. in reality, however, this would be another mechanism to silence critical voices of civil society and the media. the ones who still hope. i understand that we have other problems in the union, but the rule of law should never be abandoned. if the union cannot build up the political will to take more concrete measures, it should at least prevent corruption through european taxpayers.
we're here for the verts/ale group. your honor, colleagues, space must not be a war zone. this is not skiff, this is space policy, and it's a security issue right now. space technology is developing rapidly, and therefore the commission's presentation of the space strategy in the field of security and defence is of great importance. space can also be used for war and during war. for example, the company elon musk spacex secured a vital network for the ukrainians via satellites after the russian attack, but then cut it off suddenly. it's a challenge for citizens to have connections in the hands of individual companies and billionaires. the eu can bring diversity and it requires cooperation, resources and strategy. the eu must protect our planet, peace and human rights in every galaxy. and astronauts also need all genders, all kinds of skills, all kinds of people. there's enough work to do here, too. let's continue our work on space security. i thank all my colleagues for the good negotiations and i hope that we will have very good eu space legislation in the future.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, mr rapporteur, this report, once unusual, is going in the right direction. it is a new feature, it is included in the european marble of preference for space launchers and launch sites. and unlike the usual empty language of the european commission, your text proposes a real european autonomy, without dependency on russia or the united states, which already saw itself as the main supplier of the european space programme. as you pointed out in your report, the protection and storage of data collected by observation satellites must now be sanctioned so as not to fall under the scrutiny of gafams and thus to become vulnerable to industrial, economic and political espionage. i believe that we must also create security guards in europe so that, for example, the european commission does not take advantage of the dual military and civilian uses of satellites to gain competence in the space intelligence sector. it will be understood that space is a strategic and future sector. in this sector, france, with its industrial know-how and its base in kourou in guyana, has all the resources to be a leader in european cooperation capable of competing with other world powers.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, mr rapporteur, honourable members, the debates of today in the plenary testify to the growing interest and development of a strategic culture of space and security across the european union. it also echoes the council conclusions, which also welcomed very favourably the strategy demonstrating the relevance of our approach. as you correctly point out, there are several main issues at stake that we need to address: detection of threats, protection and resilience of space systems and services, responsiveness, but also cooperation and partnership. and you also point out, notably, two challenges: the need to invest and to maintain a competitive space industry to sustain our ambitions and the need to design a clear, flexible and responsive governance respecting the specificities of the component of the space programme and not duplicate existing means or circumvent our member states responsibilities. we have a lot of work ahead of us in order to implement this new strategy. allow me to conclude by reassuring you that the european external action service and the commission will continue engaging with you and will keep the european parliament informed of the progress achieved. i am sure that the high representative and vice-president, josep borrell, and the commissioner thierry breton will come to continue the discussion with you.
the rapporteur. madam president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for your positive and constructive contributions. i think that we have an interesting text here because it is balanced, it is in the right direction, it promotes genuine european interests, it is a good part of the assets of a number of member states (although it is well to be aware that there is a heterogeneity between our member states in space capacity) and that it is the nature of community collective action. if we respect each other's boundaries and work together in good faith, i am optimistic about the future of european space policy in the field of security and defence. i also think that this is the end of some european naivety, both on the industrial and technological level, but also on the military level, because i hear the calls not to militarize space, but others do so without complexity and without scruples. we are fortunate to have a legal, i would say even ethical, important body and we must move forward on both our legs: that is, a strong, deterrent and, if necessary, offensive leg, and a multilateral leg, open to cooperation but playing the right way. this is, if i may speak personally, my last report as a member of parliament. i am pleased that it has dealt with a future issue and that, although it is not necessarily a subject of direct and immediate legislative impact, it has brought forward a broad consensus and broad convergences in this parliament, because this parliament can only function well and be effective for our citizens in this atmosphere of consensual and compromise-ready work. this is what we have managed to do on a future issue. i am pleased and pleased that this last text has at least gathered a broad consensus tonight and we shall see what happens tomorrow.
the council is well aware of the situation in finland and is following developments closely, based on information received from frontex and finland. the finnish authorities have detected a rapid increase in the arrival of asylum seekers through russia and have taken steps to curb it by closing four of the nine border crossings, making sure to inform the other member states. we saw a similar situation in 2015, when norway reported the arrival of thousands of migrants who rode a long ride across the russia-norway border. i would also like to remind you that in february the european council condemned attempts to use migrants for political purposes, particularly when they are used as leverage or as part of destabilizing hybrid actions. the european council also called on the commission and the council to make progress on the relevant tools. it remains to be seen whether the situation in finland is indeed a case of migrant exploitation. the finnish authorities are monitoring the situation at the border and will adjust their response accordingly, in cooperation with frontex and europol. regardless of the outcome of the ongoing investigations, the current situation reminds us of the need to strengthen our collective action against the illegal migrant trade. no doubt you are aware that we are taking numerous measures against illegal migrant trafficking as envisaged in the action plan from 2021. from a broader perspective, the pact on migration and asylum aims to establish a fair, efficient and more sustainable migration and asylum process, with full respect for human rights. we must therefore maintain our commitment to the covenant. we need the tools to address different types of situations relating to irregular migration, including those where there is a risk of instrumentalisation. we are confident of parliament's firm commitment to finalising all legislative proposals relating to the pact.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for calling for this important debate – a debate that unfortunately gives me a feeling of déjà vu. two years ago, in october, i stood before this house discussing with you lukashenko’s brutal instrumentalisation of migrants. now it is not poland, latvia, lithuania under pressure, but finland. now people are not entering from belarus, but from russia itself. but it seems to be the same exploitation of vulnerable people. there seems to be the same accounts of people freezing at the border. we will meet it with the same answer: determination and unity, and solidarity with finland, solidarity also with vulnerable people. let’s start with the facts. at the eu border with finland, russian border guards have been letting people through without schengen visas or eu residence permits. people of 27 different nationalities, nearly 700 people since july. people who are being misled. people who are being used by russia. last thursday, the finnish government notified us that they would close four out of nine border crossings with russia, as of midnight last friday until next february, at vaalimaa, nuijamaa, imatra and niirala, to protect public order and safeguard national security. i visited nuijamaa border crossing last year at the finnish border, the longest border with russia of any eu member state. there, i could see for myself the finnish commitment to protecting our eu borders and upholding eu values. and there i could not only see, but also feel just how close russia is. the finnish government has been clear that vulnerable people will get the help they need. the possibility to apply for international protection is guaranteed at two other border crossings, at vartius and salla, an important safeguard which will guarantee that access to protection will remain effective. since saturday, arrivals have shifted to remaining crossing points as far north as lapland. the finnish government said they will continuously assess the necessity and proportionality of these measures, and will act as the changing situation demands. so what is behind russia’s actions? finnish intelligence reports that russia sees finland as a hostile state since it joined nato in april. let us remember that finland joined nato as a result of russia’s unprovoked, full-scale invasion of ukraine last year. russia is now using any means available to destabilise our union, our member states and our neighbours. the goal? to break our united front against russia’s war of aggression. to russia, we say: we will not let you divide us. to finland, we say: the finnish border is the eu’s border, the european union is behind you, you can count on our full support to protect the eu border and uphold fundamental rights. last week, president von der leyen expressed our support in a call with prime minister petteri orpo. the commission is in constant contact with the finnish authorities. finland has now requested additional operational support from frontex, up to 60 standing corps officers in the coming weeks. the situation is developing by the hour. the commission and its agencies are ready to respond as the situation changes. honourable members, let us remember how two years ago we all worked together, how we worked with third countries to stop people from being tricked into flying to belarus. we can be proud of how we faced down lukashenko by acting united. we must now live up to that responsibility and stand united with finland. the numbers are not high, yet, but are dangerous. russia wants to divide us as a union. so we must act united as a union. so let this be a wakeup call. yesterday, poland, latvia, lithuania. today, finland. tomorrow, another country could be next. we need to stop improvising. we need a clear eu framework in place. two years ago, the commission put forward a proposal to put in place a common eu framework, helping member states deal with the challenge of instrumentalisation in a way that is compliant with the eu standards, to stop hostile states using our own values against us while remaining true to these values. what’s happening now at the eu border in finland proves how crucial it is for the eu to have common eu rules on tackling instrumentalisation. rules that send a clear message: europe is strong and united against any hybrid threat. and we need an agreement on the pact. i am here in strasbourg taking part in the negotiations on key files, including files where the issue of instrumentalisation will be discussed and where we need to make progress. our policy now has to be unity. we need to be united and agree on the pact to manage migration in an orderly way. and we need to be united in our support for finland, for ukraine and for all those under threat by russia.
i'm here for the ppe group. mr president, i thank both the commission and the council for their very clear and positive comments. the situation at the finnish border is peaceful and controlled from the point of view of border control and human rights. we have had good cooperation with both europol and frontex and the commission and the council, but it is not just about the finnish external border, but the eu's biggest external border with russia. that is why we need a unified, strong policy. we need more resources for europol and frontex. we need a clear framework of action and a legitimate mandate to deter the hybrid. we need a new policy to stop people being instrumentalised. we need a common european intelligence service and a coherent refugee and immigration policy. hybrid abuse is aimed at undermining western values and the eu's core values. it is therefore essential that, while we are now better and stronger at protecting our own borders, we are also more concerned with international agreements, human rights and the rule of law. otherwise, we're as bad as the bad guys. this includes a genuine and effective opportunity to seek asylum, international protection, and either to be granted or to be returned. this is the mechanism that finland uses. so let's take care of our core values and take care of our boundaries. these are not contradictory, but mutually supportive tools.
for the renew group. mr president, commissioner, representative of the council, russia has launched a new hybrid operation against finland and the eu as a whole. putin's machine is now threatening and using asylum seekers as weapons to create a crisis in the west that turns our eyes away from ukraine. the russian fsb and border authorities transport refugees from a distant place to the finnish border, leaving their documents unchecked and closing the gates behind their backs to prevent their return. such action requires the approval of the highest management and shows a reckless disregard for human life. finland has responded decisively by closing four border stations in southeast finland and restricting entry at the northern border stations. i hope this message will spread through the vast network of migrants to avoid the larger flows of refugees at the finnish border. we do not want the situation on the eastern border of poland to be repeated anywhere else. the european union and nato are now facing a common european response to the threat of the external borders. the protection of our more than 1,300 kilometres of eastern border also requires assistance from frontex. as long as our common response is weak, russia can take advantage of the situation. a strict answer is the only real message to send to russia. finland and the eu will not be subject to hybridisation.
i'm here for the ecr team. mr president, let us be straightforward. russia has launched a hybrid operation against finland and is using migrants as a weapon. more than 1,300 kilometers of the eastern border of finland have been flooded with young men with the most lacking documents, including from somalia, syria, yemen and iraq. however, we cannot be certain of the nationality, because the identity papers have mysteriously drowned on the way. it is clear that this is an entry facilitated by the russian authorities and not a normal asylum application. firefighters are equipped with bicycles and driven to feel like the brink. the finnish government has already closed some border crossing points. i think it's likely and hopeful that the entire border will be closed. i must say with satisfaction that comrade heinäluym, who has maintained warm relations with the east for decades, has finally found a critical voice in his speeches, a fervent defender of the nord stream 2 pipeline and a reward for his well-done work, which was awarded the order of friendship by mr putin himself. every independent country has the right to decide which persons it will allow to enter its territory. we certainly don't need the russian-imposed masses of humanity in our country. finland must not be caught in this trap set by russia. border crossings with finland should be prevented by force if necessary. this needs to be understood in the eu, as the finnish border guards also defend the eu's external border.
madam president, madam commissioner, during november, more than 500 asylum seekers arrived in finland from russia. they are mainly young men from syria, somalia and yemen. this is an organised activity where the russians transport the persons in question by car near the finnish border, and they cycle to the border. the situation is difficult because it is -20 degrees below zero in northern finland now. this way, russia is using migrants as a weapon at the finnish border, trying to create chaos and confusion. this needs to be stopped. however, the situation at the finnish border did not catch us off-guard. fences have been built on the border and now, without delay, the finnish government has closed half of the border-crossing points with russia. the finnish government is prepared to take strong actions following national laws and eu and international obligations. this situation underlines the need to reform international rules. we should have a unified eu model to respond to the instrumentalisation of migration. effective and coordinated monitoring of the eu’s external borders is crucial to prevent neighbouring countries from using migrants for their own purposes, and to safeguard people’s fundamental rights. it’s crucial for the european union to act together in this matter and make full use of the expertise and resources of europol and frontex.
mrs president, commissioner johansson, mrs representative of the spanish presidency, as the european union - which was created 70 years ago with six member states - has been expanding, expanding and becoming more diverse and complex, with land borders no less than on the african continent - ceuta and melilla - and, on the other hand, with russia and belarus, the chances of rogue governments around us trying to pressure or blackmail the whole union, exerting direct pressure on some borders, have increased. and we have two options. the first is to panic and act reactively without strategy, without binding rules and, furthermore, with trial and error that lead over and over again to failure and, therefore, to failure. the second option is to act unitedly, respecting our right and, of course, our values and to build a response system that tells our entire neighbourhood that the european union will not yield to any pressure because it will act unitedly, in accordance with its values and in accordance with its law. this is what we are trying hard to do when we finally build a pact on migration and asylum, which will not be the complete answer until we have a global scale, a global stature and a diplomatic muscle, so that we can talk about you to you to our neighborhood and to all the relevant global actors. until we are able to prevent illegal trafficking from originating and, by opening legal channels, encourage third countries to negotiate with them, where appropriate, dignified and voluntary conditions for the return of persons who have entered the european union illegally. that's the answer. i would like to stress that there is no need to panic in breach of the rules of european law: this temptation has been tried again and again and it leads to failure.
mr president, the situation at the finnish-russian border has changed rapidly. the illegal russian invasion has severely strained relations between the eu and russia. now russia is testing finland in a familiar way. we have seen it in poland and elsewhere on the eu's external borders. people who seek asylum have been transported across the border from finland. there is no doubt that this was not a planned operation, a handshake by the fsb, the russian administration and the organized crime syndicate. once again, russia is using vulnerable politicians as a plaything. finland will have to close its borders to show that it is not playing the russian game. at the same time, the eu needs a humanitarian and secure european migration and asylum policy that works more than ever. finland has so far been able to take all asylum seekers who have arrived at its border into the asylum process. we must ensure that this is the case in the future.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. the days are over when you could wage so-called hybrid warfare against europe by taking people to the borders of the european union, to the borders of our continent, who thought they might have a reason for asylum, but had no reason or have no reason at all. the first victims of this irregular migration on the basis of organised smuggling crime, on the basis of state-organised smuggling crime in this case, are people who are on the way, even though more than 80% do not have the right to asylum, cannot show any reason for asylum. the road is difficult, the road is expensive, and the road is life-threatening for these people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the council to ensure that the commission is able to take action. and it is welcome that the finnish government is imposing a single rule that frontex supports the finnish government. and for all those who still need it in the european union, it must be the wake-up call that we finally come to an adequate, just and humane migration and asylum policy in this european union. we're one of the most attractive parts of the world, but we don't have clear rules. and if people from somalia, from syria, from yemen, are being dragged across russia and then taken to the border, then it is with intent and for the suffering of these people and of all europe.
madam president, the instrumentalisation of migrants is undeniable and i condemn it. it is the work of unscrupulous political leaders here in russia and is organised in such a way as to destabilize the european union through the geographical position of some of its member states. but the proposed response in the form of a regulation is not appropriate because it targets victims of instrumentalisation, particularly third-country nationals, and that is not the heart of the problem. reducing the number of registration points, eliminating personal interviews, setting degraded and bulk conditions for admission, allowing derogations to make access to the asylum procedure more complicated, is not the solution. the main targeting and targeting actors are the leaders of the instrumentalisation process: the heads of state of certain third countries. the diplomatic path has shown us that it is not only fair but has already proven itself in the past through sanctions. the adoption of a european regulation in the state, with questionable criteria, is not in line with the situation.
mr president, this is a deliberate and deliberate russian operation and there is nothing new in it. norway, latvia, lithuania, poland and now finland, finland, were prepared for this for a long time and were able to cope with the situation. russia is trying to stifle finland, and it is doing so at the european union's longest border. that is why it is a question of the whole european union. this evening's debate is also an important message that the union is working together and unitedly in response to russia's actions. but what should we do about people who do not meet the criteria for international protection but cannot be returned to their place of origin? this question must be solved jointly and quickly within the union. the longer this question remains open, the longer russia can exploit the uncertain situation to its advantage and the more individual member states, such as finland now, must remain very strong.
a uachtaráin, i have great admiration for finland, who have historically had to stand up to russia, and did so successfully, and now are doing the same in this unfortunate situation. russia tried to stop them from joining nato, they didn’t bow to them, and now they’re using another method to undermine finland. but thankfully finland are again responding in a humane manner, but also in a strong manner to defend their independence and their border. we cannot allow a situation where either belarus or russia dictate to the european union who is going to come in here and who is not. and particularly, as some colleagues from finland said, we need to speak strongly with the transit countries who are facilitating this horrible exploitation by war criminal putin on these unfortunate people. and the message has to go out loud and clear to putin: no matter what he tries, the european union – 27 member states, no matter what part of the eu we come from, east or west – we are not going to be bullied by putin.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like you thank you all for this important debate, and thank you for putting this issue on the agenda. and thank you especially for your strong support for finland – i think it was well expressed by helene fritzon: finlands sak är vår. thank you also for the calls for protection of vulnerable people and the importance of holding fundamental rights. we have to remember, these people are being instrumentalised, they are being used, abused and exploited. we must protect both our borders and our values. we also have to remember what is behind this: russia’s war of aggression in ukraine and russia’s attempts to destabilise us. russian actions must be met with a strict and united response from the eu, including from frontex. we have dealt with instrumentalisation before, and we will do so again. time and again russia has underestimated our ability to act united, and i must say that sometimes we also underestimate ourselves. i am confident these attempts to divide us will only succeed to unite us.
president-in-office of the council. i have listened carefully to the speeches made in this important debate. we will continue to monitor the situation in finland and maintain our commitment to combating human trafficking and trafficking, as well as the instrumentalization of migration as a hybrid threat by any country threatening our borders, in this case by russia.
in writing. – in recent weeks, moscow has been facilitating the arrival of migrants at finland’s border with russia, prompting the closure of border crossing points. the sudden surge in asylum seekers is no coincidence – russia’s attempt to sow discord as payback for finland’s membership in nato is obvious in this case. the finish authorities have a clear proof showing that not only russian border authorities are letting people without proper documentation to the finnish border, but also they are also actively helping them to the border zone. poland, lithuania and latvia have also faced constant migration pressure on their borders with belarus — an ally of russia — for more than two years, since the eu imposed sanctions on belarus in 2020. therefore, the eu needs clear strategy how to respond in such cases when the human beings are used as an ammunition by hostile regimes. we should use all available legislative instruments, such as the upcoming crisis and force majeure regulation and to step up the strengthening of the eu’s external borders.
mr president, commissioner, when i, as parliament's permanent rapporteur on humanitarian aid, began the process of preparing this report, i knew that it was addressing a key issue in order to continue to ensure the principles of humanitarian law for all those in need of emergency aid or urgent support in the face of multiple vulnerabilities. i knew, we all knew, but i had no idea, and i could not have, how this state of urgency and need would get so bad over the last few months. the humanitarian catastrophe we are experiencing in the gaza strip today is the most assertive example of this. in an inclusive work with the shadow rapporteurs, whose work i am grateful for, and with the institutions, in particular the european commission, with the specialized agencies, with the representatives of the ngos platforms, with the ngos on the ground, we have defined an innovative humanitarian aid strategy, which treats all crises with equal commitment, whether the most media-driven or forgotten crises, because all people matter and are important, regardless of the geography or context in which they become victims. the report, which will be voted on in plenary, proposes that the commission and the member states substantially increase their funding for humanitarian needs, in particular by encouraging the allocation of 10% of development support for this purpose, and that they review the multiannual financial framework to include a substantial increase. the report underlines the importance of ensuring the effective implementation of the triple nexus and of regularly reporting on its implementation. stresses the need to develop early detection and action systems to mitigate the increasingly urgent need for humanitarian assistance and increase the capacity for local response; calls on the commission to adopt a more harmonised approach to forgotten crises and to report on its commitment to allocate at least 15% of its initial annual budget to respond to these crises; encourages the commission to take initiatives to integrate the gender dimension into humanitarian action and to take into account the needs of vulnerable groups, including minorities, children, the elderly and people with disabilities. calls on the commission to develop a humanitarian diplomacy strategy in cooperation with the member states and to ensure its implementation by promoting international law and humanitarian principles; calls on the commission to continue to comply with the global humanitarian exemption standard established by the un security council and to adopt permanent humanitarian exemptions in its autonomous sanctions systems; the strategy expresses a strong consensus on the role of the triple nexus in the sedimentation of synergies between peace, sustainable development and humanitarian aid. the combination of these three dynamics is inevitable, with relative weights that shift radically as we move from emergency to prevention and to problem-solving support. in this area, measures to tackle climate change and increase the resilience of communities are key. i also stress the fundamental role of humanitarian diplomacy. it has proved more important than ever and must be equipped with the right means to unlock enormously complex situations. the protection of humanitarian actors on the ground is crucial. the recent tragedy, with the deaths of over a hundred un staff in gaza, cannot be repeated. an innovative approach does not immediately change existing institutional, procedural and funding measures. it is essential that the european union better coordinates its internal and external action in terms of cooperation and humanitarian action, so that policies are more visible and effective. no strategy alone solves the problems. it is the actors on the ground, in conjunction with policy makers and communities, who will have to make it an instrument of change. but i believe that the strategy we have developed is a strong contribution to making it possible to do more and better, and i therefore call for a massive vote to approve it and for a committed mobilization to translate it into more and better humanitarian responses to those who need it.
a uachtaráin, this might be a bit late, but this is a very important topic. and indeed the european union deserves huge credit for the amount of development and humanitarian aid it is giving right around the world. it is not recognised enough and we don’t announce it enough. having said that, as the rapporteur zorrinho said, we can do more and particularly in the context of the next mff, an increased percentage both, i think, from member states themselves in their budgets and from the mff at european level would be a very good thing to do. and especially if we can get own resources for the european union, especially through cbam, ets, etc. then that would facilitate more aid in this regard. we should also press as much as we can for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire in gaza, so that the unfortunate people there can be helped immediately. and not forgetting afghanistan, which is often not mentioned because of all the other areas around the world.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, people often ask about crisis fatigue, and whether we get a little bit tired of the vast number of crises that seem to pile on top of each other, but you never hear anybody asking about trivia fatigue. the new humanitarian pointed out that 100 times more online articles concerned will smith slapping chris rock at the oscars than was the case of the then-current crisis in malawi. some ngos, like concern worldwide, the norwegian refugee council and care, have attempted to shine a light on some of these forgotten crises. right now, of course, ukraine and gaza get and deserve our full attention. but think about syria. for a long time, syria was the subject of endless debates in this house. last month, the un security council heard that the worst escalation of violence since 2019 occurred in north-west syria. from 5 to 18 october more than 120 000 people were displaced. so i very much thank carlos zorrinho for his excellent report.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, honourable rapporteur, mr zorrinho, thank you for your powerful words. we meet at a time of catastrophic humanitarian crisis in the world. today, over 360 million people worldwide are in need of our help – the highest figure ever. never has our institution faced such a grave and overwhelming global humanitarian challenge. that is why i am so pleased to see this report come to plenary today, after being successfully adopted in the deve committee. it is proof that this honourable house has a clear and realistic understanding of the situation and the ambition and vision to act decisively at this critical moment. humanitarian crises, whether driven by conflict or natural disasters, are taking an increasing space on our common agendas. they are no longer distant news items, but a reality in the lives of europeans. they are wildfires outside the villages where we grow up, floods destroying our family homes, drought forcing our communities off their lands. and yet, even in this heightened time of crisis, the gap between humanitarian needs and resources available is growing exponentially. the commission agrees with the report’s urgent call for substantial increases of humanitarian budgets. because if we truly want to prevent the most tragic scenario, we must close this funding gap. the commission also supports the council’s call in its may conclusions, encouraging member states to contribute to reducing this funding gap at a level commensurate with their financial means, ensuring that an appropriate share – for example 10% of their oda – is devoted to humanitarian action. we also welcome the political agreement on the initial reinforcement of the 2024 humanitarian budget by eur 250 million. i thank this parliament for their sustained support for this much-needed increase. it will be a lifeline for millions of people in need. but as the global risk landscape worsens, we will need to substantially increase the solidarity and emergency aid reserve. we must keep this as a high priority in the context of the ongoing mff negotiations. i am also glad that this report acknowledged our commitment to direct at least 15% of our initial annual humanitarian budget to so-called ‘forgotten crises’. at a time when donor fatigue is high and today’s crisis risks being tomorrow’s old news, it is crucial we sustain our support and leave no one behind. i am glad this report insists on the centrality of international humanitarian law, which, if respected, protects civilians in conflict – the primary driver of humanitarian crises – and ensures humanitarian assistance reaches those in need. the eu must remain united in its demand for respect of international humanitarian law, a universal obligation in any conflict, because even wars have rules. the report also rightly tackles the need for the nexus approach to today’s emergencies. building sustainable solutions through flexible, conflict-specific and multi-layered responses. europe works best when we work together. using the nexus approach is our best chance to reduce humanitarian needs and ensure a coherent policy response. increasingly, this nexus approach will require a climate preparedness and anticipation dimension. the report points clearly in this direction. the commission supports the view that climate funding needs to prioritise the most vulnerable communities, meaning the localisation of strategies and partnership will be key. i want to close by thanking you, mr zorrinho, for insisting once again on the importance of preserving the humanitarian principles of neutrality, impartiality, independence and humanity – the four cardinal points of humanitarian aid – and by thanking this parliament, and in particular the deve committee, for their substantial investment and deep understanding, for the dire humanitarian situation we are facing. thank you for your critical support when it is most needed. i hope that this support is voiced again when this report is voted tomorrow.
in writing. it is not unnecessary, as this report does, to advocate for a better distribution of humanitarian aid to the benefit of neglected crises. wherever possible, our support should respond, in a proportionate way, to the real needs of the different beneficiary populations, rather than to news or media orders. similarly, as regards public development aid, it is urgent to expand the donor circle beyond western countries, which continue to assume a disproportionate share of this effort worldwide. however, such an evolution is not up to us. the control of the funds we allocate is our responsibility. however, whether it is efficiency or transparency, much remains to be done: i have long warned, in particular, about the situation in afghanistan, where humanitarian aid continues to flow. for this reason, the increased use of local actors, which is a frequent humanitarian aid claim, should not involve reduced audit or control requirements.
rapporteur. – madam president, thanks commissioner for being here tonight, colleagues, imagine a future where we europeans can actually protect our planet while also creating new economic opportunities and improving the lives of working people. that is exactly what the report that i am presenting you today is about. by investing in green technologies, renewable energy and sustainable industries, we can really generate a wave of new employment opportunities. i call on this parliament, the commission and the member states to turn the transition into an opportunity for working people to have quality jobs with fair pay and decent working conditions. as members of the european parliament, we have the power to shape politics and set the agenda for the next term, and that really means integrating sustainability into all aspects of our policymaking process. it means considering the environmental impact of every decision we make, and by putting the ecological transition at the core of our policy agenda, we can lead the way in building a sustainable and prosperous future for generations to come. eu legislation should encourage quality and sustainable job creation and favour investments with positive environmental and social impacts. public money should be spent on the public good and that is why i call for a review of the directive on public procurement to ensure that those benefiting companies and subcontractors do support collective bargaining and respect workers’ rights, high-quality jobs, high-quality apprenticeships, decent and equal pay and training. the decarbonisation of the european economy will create new jobs in a renewable energy and circular economy. meanwhile, existing jobs, like the ones in agriculture or construction, will undergo changes, such as working under extreme weather events. and we need to anticipate and reorganise this type of work and adjust the legal rules accordingly. to anticipate in all sectors, we need all companies to adopt just transition plans negotiated by social partners. the social partners in the german metal industry, for instance, already reached an agreement including working time redistribution with partial wage compensation or the italian social partners, they collectively agreed to reskill the workforce as part of their decarbonisation strategy. i think it is very clear that there cannot be a just transition without worker representation via the trade unions. workers really have a very good view on the on the skills that they have already acquired and on the ones that are missing. so access to training, to education, that is really key to prepare the workforce for tomorrow’s green economy, and that really benefits the companies too. i think we also need strong safety nets to bridge the temporary gaps for workers that are in between jobs. and i suggest setting up a tool similar to the sure mechanism that we had during the pandemic, that would really support workers who lose their jobs in those transitional regions. the green transition also requires proper funding. the investment gap right now amounts to an estimated eur 520 billion a year until 2030. step was not an answer to this challenge, colleagues. we need fresh eu money to mobilise large-scale investments in green technology and in strong public social services. last but not least, i call on the commission to ensure diligent and comprehensive social impact assessments for all proposed legislation assessing the socioeconomic impact and with consideration to jobs, skills, competencies, working conditions in all different countries, regions, sectors and companies. colleagues, this report is, of course, the result of many fruitful discussions and exchanges with my colleagues in the empl committee, and i would really like to thank them for their commitment. we have the chance to ensure that working people are at the forefront of this transition. let’s make it happen.
madam president, i would like to endorse the report of my fellow innovation reporter. the central theme of this report is innovation. innovation is to be the engine of growth, it is also to be the engine of quality of life and competitiveness and it is also key to the development of the labour market. for us, the main principle that we should adhere to is sustainability, and it should be reflected in all areas of the economy, in the social sphere, but also, of course, in the environmental sphere. and we should anticipate the challenges of the future with the very sustainability prism that the fellow reporter talked about, and also adopt plans for just transformation. we have already discussed these plans in the czech republic in several endangered regions, in the endangered sectors, for example in energy. so this is definitely the right way to go, and i want to thank mrs. reporter for her very high-quality work.
- mrs. president, please. the green deal. achieving climate neutrality and a commitment to a sustainable and, in particular, equitable transition. all this follows the achievement of a single goal, to ensure a long and carefree future for the next generation. we have passed a number of legislation to protect the environment. but we also need to save jobs, protect and create them. the green transition has a lot of potential for this, but we also need coordinated support for all workers and workers to take advantage of opportunities for a fair transition, with appropriate education, training and new skills. but above all, we must not forget the regions that are heavily industrialized and will be most affected during the transition period, which is a source of uncertainty for many europeans and europeans. so i want to tell people here that this report is laying the groundwork for replacing existing conditions with better working conditions, cleaner environments and, last but not least, better lives.
the author. - madam president. - what is this? - the chairman. the honourable commissioner, the honourable colleagues and colleagues. europe and the world are facing a worrying decline in the number of wild pollinators on which 35% of global food production depends. this poses a serious risk to food security, human health, quality of life and also to the functioning of natural ecosystem services. four out of five types of crops are at least to some extent dependent on wild and managed pollination, which is a significant contribution to agriculture and the economy in general. the direct contribution of pollinators to european agricultural production is estimated at around eur 15 billion. in the circumstances, there are therefore increasingly justified calls from scientists and civil society for decisive action to address the causes of the decline in pollinators. the little bee recently brought together almost 1 million and 55,000 eu citizens in a european citizens' initiative that reminds us of the importance of pollinators to our daily lives and health and that we simply need to do more to protect them. the question is therefore: how do member states address the causes of the reduction in polluters, including light pollution? in order to tackle the decline in pollinators as a result of climate change, intensive agriculture, pesticide use and pollution and degradation of the natural environment and habitats as much as possible, the eu's overall framework, or a comprehensive set of policy tools, has been available since 2018 as part of the so-called european union pollinator initiatives. the commission has also recently updated this initiative in response to new insights and the apparent need for new and reinforced measures at both union and national and local levels to achieve the long-term objective of changing the decline in pollinators by 2030. the enhanced integration of measures to protect wild pollinators into eu agricultural policy, enhanced protection of wild pollinators against harmful chemicals, further support for pollinators monitoring activities and other european research projects, enhanced pollinator research capacity and support for ngos and citizen science or citizen science can make a significant contribution to achieving the objectives of the eu pollinator initiative. in this light, i therefore ask how the commission assesses the compatibility of the strategic plans of the common agricultural policy with the objectives of the eu pollinator initiative. and whether the council intends to establish closer cooperation between member states within the framework of the cap strategic plans, thereby also allowing for the exchange of good practices for the protection of wild pollinators. with regard to the protection of pollinators against harmful chemicals, i would like to know whether the commission is prepared to continue the transition to comprehensive, systematic environmental risk assessments for the wider range of insects, pollinators, and to empower the agencies concerned to do so, taking into account the limitations of the current authorisation procedure for pesticides and biocides. if we want to make quality and thoughtful policy decisions, we need to invest more in research that will better explain the complex world of polluters. we also simply need to do more in capacity building and training of the arts. for example, in the eu, we face a shortage of pollinator taxonomy experts. their role is key to the exchange of knowledge and good practice between member states, which ultimately contributes significantly to the development of appropriate common policies. in this light, i am interested in whether member states intend to provide support for the implementation of the existing european union initiatives for polluter monitoring. will the commission continue to implement projects such as spring, insignia, sting and amber in the long term? finally, how do the member states and the commission intend to strengthen the availability of taxonomy experts to better monitor pollinators and report on data? the updated european union initiative on polluters should be at the heart of the european green deal and as such a guiding reference for sectoral policy-making and bridging the political gaps that mark the decline of polluters. i agree that we still have many challenges ahead of us, but with the range of tools and measures available and the political will, i believe we can overcome them.
member of the commission. – madam president, members of european parliament requested commissioner gentiloni to be present at the budg committee at this very moment, and on behalf of paolo gentiloni, i want to thank you for this discussion and for your valuable suggestions. as we reflect on what kind of tax reforms we need to build a more resilient europe, i cannot help pointing to the elephant in the room: unanimity. this is certainly not the first time we have brought this up, and so has this house. it has also emerged clearly from the conference on the future of europe. we know the difficulties around overcoming unanimity, but given also the context of discussions around enlargement and the functioning of a union of 30 plus member states, we must call on member states to really recognise that this topic can no longer be avoided.
the reporter. the president, the honourable commissioner kadri simson, the honourable colleagues! the current composition of the european parliament has been confronted with events and crises of unimaginable scale. from the covid pandemic to russian aggression in ukraine, to severe natural disasters and now even more terrible situations in the middle east, israel and gaza. all these events require an appropriate response from the european union. europeans must become more self-sufficient in all areas, especially in energy. in particular, when it comes to energy, we need all the technologies that can ensure resilience, reliability and consistency in the supply of competitive, low-carbon electricity, which we finally acknowledged in this very moment in the house when we voted on net-zero industry actu. the fact is that all member states' efforts in all forms of technology need to be increased in order to achieve carbon neutrality in the eu by the end of 2050. even small modular reactors, called smrs, can play a key role in global policy to decarbonise our economies, as they offer highly flexible steam and electricity generation regardless of weather conditions. given the large investments in technology development in many countries, it is predicted that small modular reactors will become a commercially successful nuclear product by 2030. they will be used in particular for fossil fuel replacement, district heating, process heat for energy-intensive industries, seawater desalination and hydrogen production. they can also make a significant contribution to the decarbonisation of synthetic fuels for heavy goods and aviation. nuclear power now accounts for 25% of electricity produced in the eu and 50% of low-carbon electricity. energy experts in light of the transition to a low-carbon society predict that electricity consumption will double by 2060. small modular reactors are highly compatible with renewable energy sources. it is envisaged that the increase in electricity production will be achieved from solar and wind power and small modular reactors and from new large nuclear power plants and by extending the operation of existing ones. european cooperation in the development, supply chain creation and placement processes will be key if we are to compete with those already active in the us, china, russia, the uk and others in developing important innovative technologies. we must promote partnership and alliance in the eu and create a reliable environment for the new airbus. which we can do right by tomorrow's support of small modular reactors. public surveys show that support for low-carbon nuclear energy is increasing and growing, particularly among young people. not so much because of the price of electricity as it is because of environmental goals. moreover, more and more member states see nuclear energy in their energy mix. in november this year, the european commission accelerated and launched the small modular reactor partnership, which was an additional major step forward. it is therefore clear that small modular reactors are a reality and will be deployed in the near future. we need to start making our decisions rationally based on undeniable facts and numbers. today at 15 o'clock i looked at the electricity map platform and i saw that france had only 33 percent renewable energy and 94 percent low-carbon, mostly nuclear, only 41 grams of co2 emissions per kilowatt of electricity produced, while germany had 408 grams of co2 emissions with 59 percent renewable energy and 62 percent low-carbon. the responsibility to finally recognize who is actually green in the eu is ours. tomorrow we will have a great opportunity as the european parliament to send a clear and strong signal to the whole of europe and to european industry. we want a safe, green and competitive europe. the latter will only be achieved if all low-carbon resources are treated appropriately and equally. i sincerely ask you for your support in voting and i thank you in advance.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, good evening and thank you for this timely opportunity to discuss smr technology and its potential for the clean energy transition. the starting point for this discussion is the union’s climate policy framework, where we have together set ambitious targets. given the urgency of reducing emissions by 55% by 2030, our legal frameworks to promote renewables and energy efficiency have been updated and now need to be implemented as a matter of priority. at the same time, all low carbon energy sources will be needed in their full potential, especially in the longer term perspective, including 2040, 2050 and beyond. for that, some 10 eu member states are currently exploring the economic viability, safety and sustainability of small modular reactors in particular. smrs have the potential to address all current challenges in full extent decarbonisation, security of power supply and eu strategic autonomy. but the fulfilment of the promise of smrs relies on technology providers’ commitment to develop their projects without compromising on nuclear safety and to build strong eu supply chains alongside reliable global partnerships. against this background, the commission welcomes the european parliament’s initiative and we consider that the report addresses all the key points related to smr development in europe. the report is well in line with our analysis on smr potential and challenges. it also calls for many actions by the commission and the member states. let me briefly elaborate on this. as you are aware, since the beginning of 2022, the european nuclear industry, research community and nuclear safety regulators have closely collaborated with the aim of setting up a european smr partnership to explore the potential for smrs and the conditions for their effective contribution to decarbonisation. smrs that can be deployed much more flexibly than large new builds can effectively, unit by unit, replace fossil-based power production and provide heating for communities and industries alike. on 6 november, on the occasion of this year’s european nuclear energy forum, i had the opportunity to discuss in detail with the stakeholders the readiness of launching this partnership as an eu industrial alliance on smrs, so i am working towards its launch at the earliest possibility, together with my colleagues in the commission. during this preparatory work, we have already established that on the path towards a successful manufacturing and deployment of smrs by the coming decade there are a number of key enablers. this coincides with many of the points highlighted in the parliament’s report. first, in the eu, licensing is a national responsibility, but i see the commission’s clear role in supporting collaborative work among interested regulators. the decision on each smr project will remain in the relevant member state, in the hands of its national nuclear safety regulator. at the same time, together with the european nuclear safety regulators group (ensreg), the commission offers a solid framework for collaboration amongst the regulators. this can greatly facilitate their tasks. second, in the coming decades, the nuclear energy sector will require highly educated staff to upskill and reskill european workers in the nuclear field. in this perspective, the commission has already set up a number of initiatives under the euratom research and training programme, such as the european nuclear education network. these will be complemented by measures introduced in the net-zero industry act. third, another key aspect to the successful introduction of smrs is the need for developing an industrial supply chain fit for serial standardised production, including stable supply of raw materials. to conclude, on top of the initiative to promote the development of smrs, the delivery on the promise needs to come from the industry together with interested member states and nuclear safety regulators. the commission will remain closely engaged in this process through the establishment of the eu’s industrial alliance on smrs to actively support smr development and deployment in the eu. nuclear energy technologies remain an important part of the eu stabilisation pathway and policy mix. i congratulate the rapporteur and the itre committee for achieving a high-quality report, and i look forward now to hearing your views on all these relevant topics for the successful deployment of advanced nuclear technologies.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in our efforts to decarbonize the european economy, we must always bear in mind that the choice of energy sources is the responsibility of each member state. but if there is technology with the potential to produce clean energy safely and affordably for consumers, this technology should be considered in the equation. this is the essence of the principle of technological neutrality which the european people's party respects and defends. i personally do not see nuclear as the best option for my country, portugal. but in terms of innovation, the sector has made important strides, especially in small modular reactors. the idea dates back to the 1950s, but only in recent years have technological advances allowed them to be considered a viable solution. the existing prototypes are a driving force, especially in terms of safety, waste reduction and efficiency. we still need more scientific research and technological development to improve economic viability and design. in addition, much regulatory work and international standards development are needed. european companies can play an important role in this technology, which can also help third countries reduce the environmental impact on energy production.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, we are in a very serious situation. we are facing our biggest and most important mission ever: green transition. we have promised that our european union will be climate neutral by 2050 and, by 2030, cut our emissions by 55 %. we have a huge job to do. at the same time, energy prices are skyrocketing and our society, traffic and industries are asking for more electricity than ever before. small molecular reactors (smrs) are interesting as they can produce a large amount of low carbon electricity. they can offer savings in cost and construction time. they are interesting for investments as they can be deployed incrementally to match increasing energy demand. smrs can be sited on the location not suitable for all renewable or not suitable for larger nuclear plants. they can be manufactured and then shipped and then installed on site, for example next to the steel factory. at the moment, we don’t have any smrs in place today. the technology is still are still under development. today’s report looks at the potential of smrs also in the european union. the european union must be the frontrunner not only on renewable energy, but also when it comes to the new clean technologies and research and development in the union. this is how we cut emissions, stay competitive and stop our dependence on third countries. we have to do our part in the european union, and we hope the dubai climate conference will make a success of all the commitments on the climate change.
on behalf of the renew group. the president, my honour. the report on small modular reactors opens up a discussion on the role of nuclear technology, or adds to the set of technologies that will be key to the success of the green transition, including nuclear and in particular new technological solutions such as small modular reactors. while i'm an advocate for nuclear technology and especially innovative technologies, i also realize that neither nuclear technology at all nor small modular reactors are a miraculous solution to our energy problems. the real nuclear industry cannot produce much more than it already does at this time. it is of course crucial that this technology, like all others, provides an opportunity and creates the conditions for competitive, technological and price developments in the market. but we must also be aware that even with increased financial and other investments, there is no guarantee of success. but the opportunity alone won't be enough. the nuclear industry, like all energy industries, or the industry as a whole, faces similar problems, such as a lack of production and development capacity, limited access to raw materials, and a lack of personnel both for industrial work and for the implementation of complex nuclear infrastructure projects. and in doing so, she will and will face fierce competition. as the report states, this will require extensive and thoughtful investment not only in technology but also in the people who will develop and operate these complex systems. we cannot ignore the fact that all member states have considerable difficulties in preparing and implementing large and complex infrastructure projects, nuclear or non-nuclear. the path of technological and industrial integration between member states and enterprises is therefore a rational development path for both green technological breakthroughs and small modular reactor technology.
- mr. president, what are you doing? there is no excuse for the crimes of hamas and the israeli army. but hamas is not all palestinians, nor is the israeli army all israeli. international law is clear the rules of armed conflict are clear, the rules of the prosecution and punishment of terrorism are clear, the rules applicable to the occupying force and the rules applicable to international crimes. the european union must therefore condemn, persecute and sanction all the most serious violations and violators of international law, or be co-accused or co-responsible for what it does not or allows to be done by violators. it must also do everything in its power to free hostages, to stop international crime and the truce, and, of course, to achieve a diplomatic solution between the two countries. if the european union cannot do this, it must do so under international law. but i want to make it clear that the inaction of the european union and the member states is not on my behalf and not on behalf of the citizens and citizens of the european union whom i represent.
mr president, i am very pleased that the socialists have raised a debate on young people and their situation in terms of living costs and housing. i have spoken a great deal on this subject and i am very pleased that we can talk about it again today on the floor of this parliament. but what's important is what we can actually do. i'm very happy that it was also the leftists, it was the socialists who created the youth guarantee, the youth guarantee, for example, which helped a lot of young people in the european union get out of unemployment and really helped them find perhaps other skills they needed for the labour market. i think it was a very successful project. we should build on it with other successful projects or other ideas that could really address the situations of young people. in my country, slovakia, too, young people stay with their parents for a very long time. we are among the worst in the european union. and it's not that these young people are so comfortable, but it's really because it's a necessity, because they can't afford their own housing. i think we need to help them find jobs, but we need to build affordable housing and definitely involve them in the political process. and i am very pleased that as a former vice-president i can commend the work of the european youth forum, which really works with young people and represents well their rights and the demands they would make.
mr president, commissioner schmidt, secretary of state navarro ríos, colleagues, even though housing is a human right, the number of young people struggling to find and to afford a place they can call their home is rising every day in all the 27 member states. too many young people are experiencing homelessness and, as a consequence, they suffer from high rates of chronic health conditions, mental and substance use disorders. bad housing conditions and homelessness is even worse for children because it puts them at risk of emotional and behavioural problems, which affect their school success. let me also recall the worrying rise of lgbti youth homelessness. intersectional discrimination, lack of tolerance and racism are linked to the housing crisis, and deepening our union of equality also means fighting discrimination and inequalities in the housing market, and this will benefit young people and students. i am glad that yesterday, with the spanish presidency, we concluded the deepening and the strengthening of the equality bodies, because this is also fighting against discrimination on the housing market. we must solve the housing crisis and therefore we call for an integrated eu strategy that creates a favourable framework for local, regional and national authorities. to guarantee housing for all, the socialists and democrats support a number of progressive policies, such as rental price control measures, the exclusion of social spending from fiscal policies, the revision of the housing cost overburden rate and rules to avoid that student and other apartments are used for tourist purposes. therefore, we support also the commission’s regulation to regulate short-term rentals. the rampant housing crisis is a clear market failure. housing has become an object of speculation to a level where young people and students can no longer find affordable housing. a well-regulated market capable of providing affordable housing to all is urgently required. public housing policy also should be excluded from competition and state aid rules, thereby allowing governments to design a strong public housing policy. everybody deserves a place that they can call home and we must deliver.
- mr. president, what is it? how many of you here have ever been sent to the account of young people, like 30-year-olds and teenagers, who are still living with their parents? did you hear that joke about mommy's hotel? i think a lot of them. i find such observations sad. the circumstances facing the younger generation today can only be humorous in satire, but they are not real. low real estate, record inflation, high credit rates on the one hand, and low quality, stable and well-paid jobs on the other. all of this puts young people in an unpredictable position that, by the way, threatens not only their independence but also their mental health. this has been shown by numerous studies. initiatives to create quality jobs at union level exist and aim to facilitate a youth-friendly labour market organisation. but we do not have a favourable housing initiative, such as encouraging new housing construction, introducing subsidies for young people who buy housing, providing favourable credit conditions or initiatives to fill vacant housing with a focus on young people. there are many measures that can improve the conditions of young people through strategies. let's make them real!
in writing. as long as we allow the real estate and rental markets to be the ones that set living standards, housing for young people will be both miserable and luxurious. nearly a third of young people under the age of 30 live in overcrowded housing. one in ten young people in the european union spent more than 40% of their income on housing as of 2021. the pandemic, conflicts in the european neighbourhood and rising energy and basic living costs have further worsened the situation of young people already exposed to low-paid jobs. young people, even those with an above-average education and skills, are not given the opportunity to self-employ and realize their potential due to unrealistic housing and employment policies and the profitability of short-term tourist rental accommodation. the youth guarantee and the european minimum wage alleviate the crisis of youth housing inequality, but far from enough. it is time to promise young people european rules to regulate the housing market and sufficient european funds to encourage public investment in green non-profit housing.
mr president, commissioner, the katargat case has exposed gaps in parliament's internal rules and, of course, raised some key issues which the committee on foreign interference has been dealing with last year. the european parliament must, of course, remain an open institution, but it must also defend itself against corruption and foreign interference. it is important that staff dealing with sensitive matters are subject to security checks and that all negotiations with third countries are conducted only through official parliamentary channels. in this context, i would like to highlight the 14-point plan that was put forward by mrs metsola because it was a decisive and immediate response to this case. dialogue between stakeholders and decision-makers remains an essential part of european democracy. of course, inappropriate influencing practices, such as bribery and other crimes, are unacceptable. we know that qatar, morocco, china, the united arab emirates, but also other countries like turkey have invested a lot of money in their lobbying networks, and it's important that we're able to defend ourselves. i welcome the package for democracy that the commission presented yesterday and which we have already discussed, but i consider it important that we, for example, have a debate on the ethical body to be set up as an interinstitutional body. i'm not sure if it's supposed to be established as a new body. i think it's important to use the tools that we have. in any case, we should not allow putin or any other autocrat to interfere in our european democracy in secret.
mr president, the corruption scandal that broke out a year ago has fed up the european parliament and undermined the confidence of citizens in decision-making. openness to decision-making is the cornerstone of democracy. transparency increases voters' confidence in the political system because it reduces doubts about hidden interests and unethical practices. more transparency and stricter rules are also needed in the financing of elections. it is important for voters to know what wills are financing politicians' election campaigns so that they know who the candidates are running for when they come out. i think that the size of the campaign should also be limited. this will prevent hidden influence and ensure a more equal working environment for all candidates. i have been a strong advocate of transparency in all decisions, including election finance, throughout my political career. transparency is the path to a just society where decisions reflect the interests of ordinary voters rather than the interests of money-laden lobbyists.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is almost a year since a scandal here shook this house to a degree that this house probably has never seen before and hardly ever in any other european parliament. hundreds of thousands of euros were found in plastic bags at the hands of the social democrats. there has been a special-class bribery scandal here, which can only be condemned to the most shameful. the european parliament has been gradually given the impression that it is less a parliament than a large bedouin tent and i apologize, not to the eu parliamentarians, but to all the bedouins who did not deserve to be compared. i know that the presumption of innocence is important to me. but the question is, how does this house handle such a scandal? i would have thought it necessary to first conduct a thorough investigation with a real committee of inquiry, including a screening of which mandators here, particularly those lobbying for desert countries, had made particularly positive statements without any evidence to support this. secondly, it would be a good sign to me if you said you were closing this house to all lobbyists. i know not all lobbyists here are bad. i know not all lobbyists are paid, but a good lobbyist is paid, acts on behalf of entrepreneurs, corporations and states, and influences the political will and parliamentary will, which is not to be the case. there are 705 mandators and over 30 000 lobbyists registered. and i say, if we can make this house a meeting place for elected representatives and citizens, it would be a good signal that we should not leave doors and doors open for lobbyists. we also have to examine what happened to pfizer and leyen and this order. we have many things that are causing bad and irreparable damage to the house here, and the question of how you deal with them will also be the measure of how europe's citizens will decide next year.
mr president, one year after one of the biggest cases of corruption in the european institutions was uncovered, we know that morocco allegedly created this mafia plot to buy up meps with the idea of conditioning the decisions of this parliament and the european institutions. did the moroccan regime interfere when we voted on a trade agreement that our own courts have declared illegal because of occupying saharawi territory? did morocco intervene so that human rights defender sultana jaya was not in the final of the saharov prize? did morocco interfere with european institutions and the spanish government to secure the illegal occupation of the sahara? these are questions that remain unanswered today and the problem is that the moroccan regime continues to enjoy intolerable impunity in the european institutions and also in this parliament.
mr president, mr secretary of state, a year after the qatargate, this corruption scandal has taught us two things: that corruption exists and that corruption also comes to light. and something else: when the european institutions have problems, they have mechanisms to solve them and prevent them from happening again. these are two essential parts of this process. when there's a crime, there's a punishment. in this case, the crime is bribery of meps. what a shame! i wasn't here yet. the punishment is prison and the measures we have said to prevent this from happening again in the future, that is, the rules of integrity and transparency in the code of conduct of the members, in line with the 14 measures plan of president metsola. and we will all agree that this is something to applaud. the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of workers' rights and the right to work. i would recommend from here that, in addition to the transparency crystals, you put on, from time to time, some mirror or other. but i insist that it is commendable the great work done so far. we must continue to work, especially at a particularly delicate time, so that, before the next elections, there is no populist cultivation broth. mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner for his report. in the face of corruption in all countries, let us stand firm. (the speaker refuses to be asked a question by cyrus engerer in accordance with the blue card procedure)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago some people tried to corrupt this parliament by using the human rights issue for personal gain, and so defiling the honour of the european institutions. the exact responsibilities will be established, but it is certainly necessary to make our european democratic house more transparent and resilient to external influences, with better practices including the internal functioning of our decisions. the work done in the last few months is good; we have reformed our internal conflict of interest and transparency rules and are working towards the establishment of an independent monitoring body. but it's not enough! for example, we haven't done enough on the subject of revolving doors: i would like to ask the commissioner if he can take up his own business after he has been a member of parliament, and if he can take up his own business after he has been a member of parliament, he should no longer be concerned with the same issues he dealt with when he worked for the institutions. a six-month period of rest has been provided for; it's too small, it's up to five years. the integrity of the institutions cannot be achieved only by sanctions, it requires an ethical and transparent effort, because only in this way can we restore credibility to our european parliamentary institutions.
mr president, dear leftists, dear so-called rule of law lovers, it’s been 365 days since qatargate exploded. and what have you done? nothing. what have you done about vaccination scandal in european commission? nothing. oh, sorry, you’ve done a lot. you’ve been attacking polish government for eight years. for eight years you tried to lecture us. you tried to lecture us about the rule of law. rule of what? rule of corruption! that’s what it is. it’s your people who were arrested. you are trying to lecture mr trump, mr bolsonaro, mr milei, you’re trying to lecture the whole world, conservative world, about the rule of law, and your people are arrested for corruption. you have no right to lecture us. you have no right to tell us, telling us what the democracy is. you have no right to tell me what the rule of law is. that is why i promised we’re going to fight your leftism ideology until the final victory. so help me god!
mr president, to name an object is to add to the misfortune of this world, wrote the famous french writer albert camus. the european union is obviously accustomed to the fact that whenever a scandal arises, you try to divert attention by invoking the supposed need for transparency and accountability within our institutions. behind these suitcases, you're really trying to hide the reality. the reality is that the european union has allowed immigration to overwhelm europe and allowed strict islam to enter its divided offices. the qatargate is a new example: behind this alleged corruption case, revealed just a year ago, lies the unforgivable compromise of many senior officials. in the light of the qatargate, the decision-making process on some recent issues raises questions, such as the opening of the european union's airspace in qatar, the visa waiver for qataris, and the arrangements for the award of the fifa world cup in qatar. but we are also thinking about the decision to run european campaigns in favour of wearing the hijab, a retrograde islamic garment that has no place in europe. and we are even thinking about the conditions for the elaboration of the ill-fated immigration pact. you cannot continue to embody the good camp and not look at the problem in the face, that is, at the face of foreign influence. nothing is worse than being the useful idiots of islamists.
mr president, i’m not surprised that the epp today is not accepting our blue cards when we try to ask some questions, because i remember the political bickering that we had last year, and unfortunately, it was repeated today in this plenary chamber. i believe that we should look away from the partisan bickering and focus on what we still need to do to make sure that we fight corruption, that we fight the lack of transparency that exists because, since last year, unfortunately, what i have seen is that the european commission has come up with a package on foreign interference, which is good, it could be stronger, but it is a step in the right direction. but then, we forget about the elephant in the room: what’s happening within our own member states, what’s happening in the council, what’s also happening sometimes in this european parliament? i say this, because in negotiations this week, the epp does not want to have a mandatory transparency register, for instance. how can we fight corruption, how can we say that we want transparency when we are against the word ‘mandatory’ in a transparency register ? you know that the qatargate files seen by politico spoke about 300 jobs executed by their soldiers in the european parliament. we need to fight that now.
mr president, my colleagues, a year ago we were shocked, shocked and disgusted to learn that the european parliament and the european commission had been the targets of qatar's interference. worse, this case has splashed us all out and it has cast a discredit on the political class. between the suitcases found in various homes, the flights and the hotels all paid for, reality has surpassed the fiction of a netflix series. it's time for parliament to sweep the door. parliament must once again become the absolute standard of transparency and integrity. so tell me, why have the air agreements between the european union and qatar not been suspended yet? why was the visa waiver agreement with doha not suspended? what is the commission's position? where are we with this high authority? what assurances are there that such a scandal will not happen tomorrow? i say this loud and clear in this institution: our democracy is not for sale, and it is not the lobbyists who make the law.
president. what an excitement. a year after qatargate, we still don't know what happened. is there any corruption? we don't know. the investigation is not complete and the facts are missing. the european parliament's response to this scandal is typical of its way of operating. without knowing the facts and understanding the matter, the european parliament has taken action. a vice-president has been definitively removed from office on the basis of rumors. measures to prevent corruption were drawn up and adopted in a hurry without understanding the case at hand and the structural integrity risk posed by the european parliament was not addressed. every piece of legislation has big financial consequences, and that's why every vote is worth money. and a lot of votes are worth a lot more money. this problem requires a professional approach. but now, first of all, the investigation of the qatargate must be completed. this also means that the juri committee must deal with requests for hearings of those concerned as quickly as possible. the bottom stone should be above. whatever it takes.
mr president, we know the scandal has cast a long shadow on this institution, and yet, a year later, we are still scandalised and we’re looking for solutions. we are working in a democracy. and that’s what’s good about this establishment on which the scandal has shamed us. madame aubry earlier asked madame loiseau some questions. madame loiseau is an example that i would like to follow in terms of morality and fighting back against the lobbyists. we should all have her spirit. there’s one problem with this scandal, which is not to do with the european parliament, and it is that the justice system in belgium has not moved fast enough, it seems to me, to clear up the situation. as long as the perpetrators are not called to justice ˗ that’s not the role of the european parliament ˗ we will not have clarity, we will not have what they say closure. and finally, we can pass as many rules as we like, as many procedures, as many signatures, it is an ethical, personal matter. it is to us to be the pure politicians serving the public interest.
- mr. president, what are you doing? it has been one year since some colleagues and colleagues received money from third countries to influence union policy. the affair has seriously undermined the credibility of this union. people have lost confidence. - that's right. in fact, i wonder myself how much corruption is still undiscovered, especially after the latest politics posts. how much more impact does illegal lobbying or biased interests have on mps? how can many in this house still receive high amounts of money to sit on various corporate boards? unfortunately, not much has changed in one year. the ethical world that is already such a brezzobi tiger is still not working. transparency is essential, but it's not enough. we need a serious authority with the authority to investigate any conflicts of interest and punish any wrongdoing. these are the basic standards, the prerequisite for democracy. if there aren't, it seems we're all the same. we are not, but mediation strengthens political forces whose sole aim is to exploit themselves. the catargat will remain a stain on the european union. we are taking decisive action to kill corruption, take responsibility, and get corrupt politicians and politicians to the point where they belong.
madam president, dear colleagues, russian aggression against ukraine began almost 10 years ago. the last 22 months of full-scale war have demonstrated very painfully the lessons about our weaknesses and challenges. one thing is very clear: europe has enjoyed the privilege of the peace dividend for too long. this has resulted in the serious gaps across the whole spectrum of the armament and ammunition production. the european defence industry is fragmented. we cannot mobilise our resources in order to deliver critical military means to ukraine or ourselves. more effort needs to be put in the eu’s capacity to stand up and take defence seriously. i do believe that the eu needs a strategic mechanism that would ensure a clear and long-term demand signal for our industry. i hope that edip will be that plan. in addition, the eu could mobilise funding for defence infrastructure projects and common goods that are difficult for member states to develop alone. needless to say, through edip, our smes working in the defence sphere should find a good platform to better engage in strengthening our defence industry.
madam president, commissioner, representative of the council, we’ve just learned the far left doesn’t want to dedicate any money to defence, but russia, dear colleagues from the left, is dedicating 40% of its gdp to a malicious war in europe. let’s not fool ourselves that putin will stop in europe – putin is preparing for a full-scale war with nato. china, meanwhile, has spent each year a percentage more than its own gdp growth on its military. in other words, it is preparing for a war in asia. if we want peace, a long-term plan to boost our own defence is the best deterrence against war. it was exactly that which ended the cold war, by the way, against far left communists. this european commissioner has already done great work with two instruments enabling a european defence industrial base for our friends in ukraine. but we are desperately waiting for a long-term instrument to complement that in order to keep peace. last but not least, the new european commission should have one commissioner, including a vice-president, dedicated to defence and the defence industry to show our commitment to building a european pillar in nato.
the commissioner, president-in-office, colleagues, has made the strengthening of european defence an undeniable policy priority. we've been growing a backlog in this domain for too long. but since putin has shown what he can, laxity has given way to initiatives to literally arm us against increasing threats. as of march 2022, there is a very strong political will that is also needed to realise the european union's security and defence policy. external pressure has made progress, but more than an effective response in a crisis situation, we really need a strong and full european defence in the long term, especially and first of all through more and better investment in industry and technology, to the extent agreed upon in the strategic compass. strategic self-sufficiency requires sustained efforts, even when it will soon be no longer burning. i therefore welcome the support of the european defence investment programme and immediately call for sufficient resources to ensure its effect, and that we should and should implement a truly comprehensive strategy for a european defence industry in a complete and credible way.
- the president! i know it's unpopular to talk about spending public money on military equipment and armaments, but unfortunately, we live in a time when credible and deterrent defense has become an essential part of our daily lives. the time for peace dividends has come and it is time for us to react rationally as the european union. we therefore urgently need a legal framework for a common european defence investment programme. we can indulge in the convenience of populism about guns and butter. i'd love to talk about it and get cheap political points. but my professional and political responsibilities simply do not allow me to do so. the situation of the vast majority of european armed forces is, to put it mildly, bad. if you look at the strategic stockpile of missiles, it's actually catastrophic. the russian aggression against ukraine has exposed the limited production capacity of the european defence industry. not only in supporting ukraine in its struggle, but even more so in restoring our own stockpiles of equipment and ammunition. the joint defence investment programme will thus have to eliminate duplication and unreasonable spending and ensure that we have the defence capabilities appropriate to the modern and modern security environment, while preventing the overloading of our budgets by integrating at eu level.
- mr. president, please. news from dubai is coming from the success of climate multilateralism in light of the serious climate and environmental challenges we face. world leaders, despite their diversity among countries, have only managed to unite in a commitment to abstain from fossil fuels, thus supporting a decision based on scientific evidence. a few reasons to be optimistic, but tomorrow is a new day. political decision-makers must transpose the achievements of this conference into national law as soon as possible. the climate and energy commitments of world leaders must become legally binding, as the only way to consolidate our path towards achieving the objectives of the paris agreement. in this path to tackling the global climate crisis, i would like developed countries to fulfil their moral and historical duty and to provide adequate financial resources to support developing countries and regions and vulnerable groups in their fair and equitable adaptation to climate change.
