mr president, the single market with its four freedoms is a very great achievement of the european union, it is safe to say that it is the heart of the eu. free movement of goods, services and students is something that is taken for granted today, but it is because it was agreed 30 years ago. it brought prosperity to europeans, 450 million of us today enjoying these benefits. i myself come from slovenia, a country with an open economy, where exports account for 80% of gdp, three quarters of which is to eu countries. and in our country, one study found that the effect of the common market, the benefits of the common market, is five times greater than the effect of the european funds we get from the european union. the european market, the common market, is also trying to influence global markets with its climate rules, its labour rights rules, its human rights rules. we certainly have proven ourselves in crises, because we have had joint research and later the acquisition of vaccines. we're getting gas together today. there are certainly big challenges ahead: the digital market, digital services, even food security will be our big challenge in the future. and many of the climate challenges/crises we face will have to be addressed together. protectionism is something that is destroying the common market, and as it is happening both within the european union and beyond our borders, with major competitors, it also needs to be given a lot of attention.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, minister, the single market is 30 years old this year. when i was elected to the european parliament i was 26 years old and decided to sit on the committee on the internal market, where, together with many colleagues - whom i thank and see here today - i continue to work with passion and commitment, because i believed and i strongly believe that the real europe is built not only on an economic union but on a solid political union. roaming, the right of travellers, the recognition of professional qualifications, the product safety directive, the digital markets act, erasmus were some of the measures that were appreciated by citizens, giving them guarantees, freedom and prosperity. in many, many areas, we are the world's leading producer of every kind of good and service that we export everywhere. the single market has harmonised hundreds of pieces of legislation and set standard rules for consumer protection. however, like all man-made creations, the single market is not and will never be perfect. there are open questions which we must tackle at community level, going beyond what are still national egoisms, such as fiscal union, defence union, common labour costs, a common industrial and energy policy, and a european migration policy. the pandemic, the war in ukraine, inflation and the waves of migration call for a european response, but one that is not vague, but clear and precise. and that is why the premise of all this is one and the same, and the dream is to achieve the united states of europe, which is the goal that we all set ourselves and i hope that we will all set ourselves together.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner vestager, swedish minister for the european union, roswall! the eu's single market is 30 years old and we have much to be proud of. free trade within the eu, with no customs duties and no hassle for consumers and businesses, has made us one of the largest economies in the world. transparency has brought prosperity and a stronger europe. but at the same time, i'm worried. as a result of putin's illegal war against ukraine, prices have plummeted. the answer to the economic crisis must not be to close ourselves off and create new barriers between the countries of the eu. if we are to celebrate the successes of the single market in 30 years' time, europe must stick together. we need to make it easier to trade in green products. we need to strengthen trade in services, and we need to create a digital market in the eu that can face the climate crisis and global competition. free trade is not a threat. free trade is a prerequisite for a freer, greener and safer europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? there was a time when garbage and waste were simply thrown into the sea or dumped in the woods according to the principle 'what is not seen, does not exist', but today we know better. waste is a valuable resource that can be used over and over again. but we still act like we used to. there is a risk that european waste ends up in countries lacking both the rules and the competence to deal with the waste with dangers to the environment and to human health, and also with the threat of corruption that undermines responsible management. the eu is a major player in the waste trade. that europe is not just dumping garbage and scrap and plastic in other parts of the world should be as obvious as that i am not throwing garbage in my neighbour's garden. new, stricter rules on international trade in waste are needed. it can only be smart, profitable, job-creating, resource-saving and simply sustainable.
the examination of this item is therefore closed.
the next meeting will be held tomorrow, tuesday, 17 january 2023, at 9.00 a.m. the rules of procedure have been published and are available on the european parliament's website.
the minutes of this sitting will be tabled for parliament's approval in the early afternoon of tomorrow.
(the sitting was closed at 10.05 p.m.)
good morning, dear colleagues. before we move to this morning’s business i would like to make an announcement. based on the conclusions of the advisory committee dealing with harassment complaints between accredited parliamentary assistants and members of the european parliament, and after taking into account the observations of the member concerned, i have decided to impose a penalty on mónica silvana gonzález pursuant to rule 10(6) and rule 176, as a result of her behaviour towards her three accredited parliamentary assistants, which constituted psychological harassment. the penalty consists of, for the first assistant: loss of entitlement to the daily subsistence allowance for a period of five days and temporary suspension from participation in parliament’s activities for a period of five days. for the second assistant: loss of entitlement to the daily subsistence allowance for a period of 15 days and temporary suspension from participation in parliament’s activities for a period of 15 days. for the third assistant: loss of entitlement to the daily subsistence allowance for a period of 10 days and temporary suspension from participation in parliament’s activities for a period of 10 days. the member concerned was notified of the decision yesterday and is entitled to lodge an internal appeal with the bureau under rule 177. the penalty would be suspended for the duration of any such appeal.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the presentation of the programme of activities of the swedish presidency (2022/3008(rsp)). dear prime minister kristersson, dear colleagues, on 1 january we welcomed sweden at the helm of the council of the european union. today, it is a pleasure to have with us prime minister ulf kristersson to present the programme of activities of the swedish presidency. prime minister, dear ulf, welcome to the european parliament. questions on the economy will dominate the swedish presidency. i believe that a return to growth can be one of your major achievements. in order to boost the economy, you stand for an open, modern and competitive europe. this is what the european parliament stands for too. growth will also come from reforming our energy market. to make it future-proof, efforts must be made to reconcile energy security with the green transition. sweden is already a front-runner in this area, which will prove essential when it comes to us wrapping-up the ‘fit for 55’ package. last year, the european parliament and the five rotating presidencies committed to working in partnership to find agreement on the migration and asylum package before the next european elections. your presidency falls squarely in the middle of this legislature. the urgency to make progress on all the migration files is becoming very real here too. and yet, despite all these challenges, the biggest threat to europe and our democracies is still and will continue to be russia’s illegal invasion and relentless bombardment of ukraine. sweden has been a great friend to ukraine and you have always been true promoters of human rights and democratic values. we must continue to stand by ukraine. prime minister, dear ulf, a month and a half ago, you welcomed me and my colleagues, the group leaders, in the beautiful capital of stockholm. it is in this constructive spirit that the european parliament will continue working with the swedish presidency on the many important initiatives on the table. on behalf of this house, i look forward to working together with you and your colleagues and i wish you every success for the upcoming six months.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, dear roberta, members of the european parliament, vice—presidents of the commission, ladies and gentlemen. it is a privilege and a pleasure to be here today to present the priorities of sweden’s third presidency of the council of the european union. in short – our chief priorities aim to help make europe greener, safer and freer. greener, safer and freer. we have a lot to do together in the coming six months. times are though difficult. war is raging in europe, a war that has led to countless casualties – both soldiers and civilians – and to brutal atrocities. but also to an energy crisis and to an economic downturn. all this will make the coming months very challenging, most of all, of course, for all our ukrainian friends. while we respond firmly to these emergencies, we must also move the eu’s political and law—making agenda forward. so far, the european response to russia’s illegal invasion of ukraine has been strong, united and decisive. in addition to nine sanction packages, we have recently increased our common support to ukraine with a further eur 18 billion in macro—financial assistance. many individual countries provide ukraine with important military equipment as well. and ukraine and moldova are now both candidate countries. moreover, the union is on the road to reducing our dependence on russian fossil fuels. in the 1970s, getting rid of fossils was mainly an economic matter. in the 80s and the 90s, it increasingly became a matter of fighting climate change. and now it has finally also become, obviously, a matter of geopolitics and security. over the last few years, we have shown that in times of crisis, the eu really can come together and exercise international influence without losing sight of our long—term agenda. vladimir putin’s regime underestimated not only ukraine, but also the european union. as the new presidency of the council, we aim to build on the excellent work of the french and the czech presidencies. we intend to continue in the same spirit when we try to seek solutions in the council and, of course, with the parliament and the commission. our obvious starting point – everybody’s first priority – is and has to be ukraine. nothing is as important. but this is not simply crisis management – this is about fighting for democracy and fighting for decency. ukrainian victory is existential for europe – and, honestly, existential for the whole world. personally, i woke up in helsinki on 24 february last year at 4am to the news that ukraine had been invaded by russia. that was only a few hours after a conversation with the finnish president sauli niinistö. we both, during that conversation, saw the obvious risk of war, but we also saw the risk of divisions between friends – european friends and division transatlantically. however, when the war came, and it did, the western democracies stayed united. today the transatlantic unity on ukraine is stronger than ever. it is a horrific war, which has displaced a third of ukraine’s population and destroyed half of the country’s energy infrastructure. many ukrainians, both soldiers and civilians, have paid the ultimate price for this war. bucha has become part of our collective european memory. but history was also made when president zelenskyy refused to leave kyiv and remained in ukraine with his government. in doing so, he has embodied the country’s resistance. on the battlefield, but also in the battle for hearts and minds, ukraine has offered hope for all of us who believe that the rule of people always trumps the rule of a strongman. while ukraine’s resistance continues, we must now do what we can to make sure that ukraine prevails and that its future lies here in the eu. because if the hope for democracy’s future is in ukraine, ukraine’s hope lies with us. our task is to continue supporting the ukrainians who are not only fighting for their independence, but also for a european way of life where right is greater than might. our role as president of the council means we have to ensure the eu’s continued economic, political, humanitarian and military support to ukraine. for example, we will have to monitor the progress of ukraine’s reforms on its path towards eu membership. this also means that we have to start working on solutions for ukraine’s recovery and reconstruction, together with all our international partners. reconstructing ukraine after the war will remind us all of the marshall plan after world war 2. and in this effort, frozen russian assets need not only to be part of the problem, but also become a part of the solution. i foresee a very thorough analysis on the extent to which the democratic world can unite in reusing that money to repair some of the destruction. so, our first priority as president of the council will be to work – together with the european parliament – to promote europe’s security by supporting ukraine and highlight the eu’s geopolitical significance in an increasingly uncertain world. and when we build security, we must also look at other aspects that are close to other citizens. free movement in the eu should not mean free movement of criminal activities, obviously – there is much room for stepping up our cooperation against organised crime. we must also continue our work towards a common and coherent migration policy, while at the same time managing the current situation with all tools already available to us. in times like these, the eu’s role in providing security and stability across all these dimensions is crucial. another area where the eu has a crucial role to play is in the green transition, a task that has only become more urgent in light of the war in ukraine. the plan to reduce emissions by 55% by 2030 is vital to reach co2 neutrality by 2050 and live up to the goals set out in the paris agreement. in sweden, we are proud of our own contributions to europe’s shift from fossil—dependent to fossil—free. on the recent trips to sweden, we chose to show both the conference of presidents and the commission how companies such as the battery maker northvolt or the car manufacturer volvo are creating new, innovative ways to reduce europe’s dependence on fossil fuels. these businesses, they want to go to work. they want to benefit from the great opportunities of the green transition and they are asking us in politics – domestically and european – to provide frameworks for their work. and that is precisely what the eu has been doing – for example through the decision to prohibit the sale of new fossil—fuelled cars by 2035. going forward, we must continue down this path. the swedish presidency intends to do its part to strengthen the eu as a frontrunner in the green transition. we will continue the important ongoing work of the institutions and make a conclusion of fit for 55 our priority. we count on the european parliament and we look forward to work together on this. we also look forward to beginning the work of reforming the european electricity market design, since energy from the right sources and the right price is the foundation of the green transition. third, the green transition touches on our long—term competitiveness. if european companies are to produce the energy and make the batteries, the electric cars and the fossil—free steel of the future, they all need good conditions to compete internationally. from the very beginning, the integration of our economies lay at the heart of the european project. by removing tariffs, red tape and other barriers, we have replaced power politics with a rules—based market and turned war between our own nations into things of the past. for the past three decades, the single market has fostered healthy competition and built strong economies and industries across our continent. removing barriers for goods, services, capital and people have made our companies better, our countries more prosperous, and provided consumers with higher quality and better-priced products. the size and the strength of our economies is also a significant reason why the eu is such a powerful actor nowadays on the world stage. thanks to the single market and thanks to a successful trade policy based on openness, with agreements and partnerships around the world, the eu is an economic giant. despite this, as a union we are not living up to our full economic potential. our productivity is lagging behind, and fewer and fewer of the biggest firms on the planet are eu—based. today, we are spending significantly less on research and development than the us and china, and high energy prices may drive investments away from europe. in other words, we are struggling with several challenges related to the crises that we are going through, while facing actions of partners and competitors around the globe such as the us inflation reduction act. the eu’s response to these developments needs to be analysed and discussed as a matter of priority. but we must not forget that long—term competitiveness must be built on strong companies that are able to survive and thrive in competition on an open market. in the long term, factors like weak productivity, insufficient spending on r&d, and high electricity prices pose greater risks to european competitiveness than lack of subsidies to production in europe. if we want to maintain our leading, knowledge—based economies with innovative industries, we need to step up our game. therefore, we need a long—term new strategy on eu level to boost competitiveness and productivity. the single market’s 30th anniversary is a very useful starting point for that work. last but not least, the fourth priority of the swedish presidency will be to uphold the union’s common, fundamental values. i would like to pay tribute to the european parliament for your steadfast support for the most important principle that binds us all together – respect for the rule of law. history teaches us that this is a precondition for our political, our legal and our economic cooperation. if we want citizens’ rights to be protected everywhere across the union and the single market to function properly, the rule of law has to be upheld in every country. liberal democracy – the combination of popular sovereignty and individual rights – is also what separates the eu from other international institutions and makes more people in more countries want to join. these values, not corruption and cronyism are what ukraine, moldova and other candidate countries are aspiring towards. in that sense, making sure that we preserve the rule of law in the eu is also a way of enhancing our global competitiveness and our attractiveness. there are certainly formats and forums to engage with authoritarian states, but the eu is not one of them. this is and must remain a club of democracies. in the last few years, we have made significant progress to safeguard the rule of law in the eu. the conditionality mechanism has been an important new instrument to ensure that eu funds are not misused. article 7 proceedings have been initiated. and the rule of law dialogues have shown that all member states, not just a few, have room for improvement as far as the rule of law is concerned. during the swedish presidency, this work will certainly continue. and in order to emphasise the importance of the rule of law, we will also organise a symposium on this specific issue in stockholm in may. when my czech colleague petr fiala spoke to this parliament in july last year, he paraphrased ronald reagan in saying that democracy is never more than one generation away from its demise. and i agree. if the last few years have taught us anything, it should be that no political institution can settle with past achievements. democracy has to be defended and reinvented in both word and deed. dear members of the european parliament, six months is a very short time. yet, there is so much to do, since these months coincide with a truly unique moment in europe’s contemporary history. for obvious reasons, the only thing i can promise you all in this room, is that we will do our utmost – there is only so much that my government can control, and some things will no doubt catch us by surprise, they always tend to do. but i can assure you that sweden will be a constructive and enthusiastic leader of the work in the council and a cooperative partner that will search for compromises with all member states – and all eu institutions – in mind. together, we will seek solutions to meet the challenges that i have outlined here today – to security, to climate, to competitiveness, to the rule of law and more. and we will count on you, not just as a counterpart but also as an ally. thank you all for your attention. i now look forward to the debate.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, prime minister, honourable members, it’s a pleasure to be here to discuss with you the programme of the swedish presidency of the council. i wish you, prime minister kristersson, and your team, your colleagues, every success over the coming six months. i also would like to wish to all of you, honourable members, a happy new year and let me express also my hope that 2023 will bring greater peace and prosperity to europe. but for that to happen, we must continue to put all our efforts into tackling the far-reaching challenges facing us. challenges which have not disappeared with the changing of the calendar. the commission therefore welcomes and supports the swedish presidency’s focus on its main priorities. first, we must maintain our unity and determination in supporting ukraine and the ukrainian people against russia’s war of aggression and the kremlin’s barbaric attempt to weaponise even the winter. with the conflict in its eleventh month, ukraine continues to defend its land with bravery and tenacity. our support likewise is unwavering, with the first tranche of the unprecedented eur 18 billion support package set to be disbursed still this month. we continue to work relentlessly to keep the ukrainian electricity grid functioning, including by providing power generators and transformers under the eu civil protection mechanism. and we will resolutely support ukraine in its reconstruction efforts. the international donors platform that we are setting up together with our g7 partners will help coordinate our efforts here. in addition, we welcome the presidency’s demand for those responsible to be held accountable, and we remain fully behind the commitment towards ukraine’s integration into the european union. at the same time, we need to take action to address the myriad repercussions of the war. this means making swift progress in the work on security and defence, including via the adoption of the european defence industry reinforcement through the common procurement act and our updated maritime security strategy. secondly, we must continue to overcome the energy crisis – a consequence of the war in ukraine being felt deeply by citizens and businesses across europe. russia’s effort to blackmail us by weaponising energy and manipulating our dependency on russian fossil fuel imports has failed thanks to our solidarity. we have reached 20% in gas savings and introduced a gas price gap, which, when matched with a warm winter, have led to our storage level being at 83%, very high for this time of the year, with gas prices now lower than they were before the war. thanks in no small part to our work to accelerate permitting procedures, we deployed twice as much renewable energy capacity as expected last year, but there is still much to be done. work is ongoing to operationalise the eu energy platform to enable the joint purchase of gas, and i had the pleasure of chairing the first meeting of the steering board yesterday. in this effort, it is vital that we effectively leverage the eu’s political and market weight. at the same time, we need to further scale up renewables, which are critical for our long-term energy independence, as well as for the green transition. as president von der leyen said last week, we should aim to double our renewable energy capacities this year again. this brings us to the third priority of the swedish presidency: furthering our work to meet our climate ambitions. we look forward to the swift conclusion of the remaining trilogues for the ‘fit for 55’ package – the beating heart of the european green deal – and stands ready to assist the co-legislators as needed. we also count on the swedish presidency to make as much progress as possible on other european green deal proposals, including the zero pollution package and the proposal on packaging and packaging waste. this, in turn, will help boost our competitiveness. in the framework of the 30th anniversary of the single market, a landmark we celebrated in this chamber yesterday, we therefore welcome the focus of the swedish presidency on our union’s economic competitiveness, a key part of its strength. we look forward to working with the presidency on a number of relevant measures, including the review of our economic governance framework and the implementation of our upcoming single market anniversary communication. our economic relations with third countries are also important for our competitiveness, and we anticipate making progress on agreements with several key partners under the swedish presidency. we also welcome the efforts to reinvigorate the eu’s economy through additional investments in the green transition under the repowereu. however, we must also consider how best to support europe’s thriving clean-tech industry at the time when others around the world are taking measures which could negatively affect our competitiveness as well as reduce investments into europe. for example, we are currently working with the us to reduce the negative side effects of its inflation reduction act. but we still face unfair competition from china’s massive subsidies in its clean-tech sector. in response, under the swedish presidency, we will introduce measures including on strategic raw materials. we also need to update our state aid framework to better facilitate public investment. and finally, we are also pleased to see the swedish presidency focus on migration. at a time when migratory flows are once again on increase, a robust framework for our migration and asylum system is vital. we already have many answers to the challenges we face in the pact on asylum and migration, so we look forward to advancing on this issue in the coming six months. honourable members, dear prime minister, as you can judge from my voice, it is proof that the weather in kiruna was cold, but i can tell you that the atmosphere was very warm and the spirit of cooperation was very, very strong. so therefore, i’m very glad to conclude by saying that all of us in the commission, and i’m sure in the european parliament, are really looking forward to working with you, with your team, with the swedish presidency. i believe that in this spirit of european unity and solidarity, we will deliver for the people in europe and for the european union. so, once again, thank you very much for your attention. and prime minister, all the best of luck for the presidency.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, vice-president maroš, it would be great to hear whether you were in the ice hotel or in the normal hotel? okay, thank you for the clarification. commissioner, dear prime minister, dear ulf, welcome, truly, and we very warmly welcome the swedish presidency to the european parliament. you won the elections last year and formed afterwards a pro-european government, and now your presidency starts. i would say it’s a young government. it’s a young government and that means also a government full of energy and motivation. and that is so urgently needed for development on a european level. with the increasingly absent berlin and paris, we need more stockholm. we need your leadership now. and that’s why we welcome you. in 2009 – the last time sweden led the council – europe was in the middle of a euro crisis and facing the most severe economic recession in decades. the swedish prime minister, fredrik reinfeldt, also from the epp, became president of the council, kept a cool head and steered europe through the crisis. and on top of this, sweden managed to reach a deal on the lisbon treaty. in an extremely difficult moment, you showed leadership. sweden proved to be an effective crisis manager, to be an ambitious agenda-setter and a credible bridge-builder. and that is what is now also at stake. your predecessors did a great job. a centre-right coalition, the czech presidency already did a lot of good things – fit for 55, repowereu, migration – and even, as a centre-right government, it was the first time activating the rule of law mechanism, and i think that is a great achievement. so that is preparing the ramp now for sweden. you spoke about the war and, on this question of security for europe, you already showed leadership. you have taken responsibility and committed yourself to our european security. you are not only making nato now stronger by joining nato, but the entire european union. and i speak here on behalf of the epp. so let me underline that the socialists were always opposed in sweden to joining nato, and at the beginning also the european union. it was your party, it was the epp, always together with christian democrats, always fighting for europe, always fighting for nato. so you were always on the right side of history. and finally, socialists understood we had to go. so congratulations to the socialists as well. for us as the epp, as you can imagine, the most important point in this presidency is jobs, jobs, jobs. we speak again about competitiveness, and it’s about people when we speak about competitiveness. being social means, above all, providing people with a job and a decent income. and that’s why, again, thank you so much, for sweden is the best country to do so because you are a european champion of innovation: number three in the world, with innovative frontrunners like skype, tetra pak and spotify. and on top of this, sweden is the home of the nobel prize. so that’s why innovation is, in a way, swedish. we welcome this very much. and with this challenge in mind – you mentioned already some examples – i can say that in artificial intelligence american firms invest six times more than european firms, and the top 10 leading companies investing in quantum computing are in the us and in china, not in europe. and that’s why we have to pick up this competition. but for us, this also means all that we have to do it on a european level because the member states have not the capacity, the tools and the resources to do so. in addition to innovation, more has to be done. yesterday, we celebrated 30 years of the single market: a great moment, but the work is not finished. in the telecom sector, we can do more. we have to answer the $430 billion investment reduction act proposal from the americans. competition is good and we like competition, but our competition law and legislation is outdated. we need a reform of this. the creation of global champions is so urgently needed. and i have to say that the resistance from commissioner vestager – for example, to allow the merger of siemens and alstom – was a mistake. we need these kinds of global champions to be competitive on a global level. and finally on this issue of jobs, we want to support you on your trade policy. we finally need to ratify ceta in all member states. and with the election of president lula in brazil, we now have to sign mercosur – that is so needed for global level, but also for us as europeans. we showed ambition and an ambitious approach to climate change in the last months. we did this together and now we have to show the same ambitious approach to jobs creation. and finally, a second wish – very briefly – and that is migration. we have to continue on this. the czechs did a good job. we have to help people in need – there is no doubt about this. we have to rescue people in the mediterranean. we have to strengthen frontex. we have to build up strong border protection against smugglers. and we have to show solidarity on a european level. that is what we have to do, and let’s use now the momentum to find a european solution on migration. the upcoming special meeting of the council in february is the momentum to deliver it. dear ulf, i’m convinced that the swedish presidency will be a success and, dear ulf, you can fully count on your epp group to deliver. good luck.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, welcome to the house, mr kristersson. the start of the swedish presidency comes at a time when the european union is experiencing its most important momentum in decades. no one could have imagined the leap in the integration process with solutions that have been up to the serious crises that have occurred. if 2022 goes down in history as the year that sparked unprecedented decisions to fight the price war, 2023 is going to be the year of structural solutions, it has to be the year of structural solutions. the main challenge of this new year is social discontent. if inflation continues to undermine purchasing power, a permanent financial instrument will be needed to protect the most vulnerable businesses and households. in the face of discriminatory subsidies from the united states, we must propose a temporary modification of state aid to ensure the rapid deployment of the investments of the recovery plan and to avoid disrupting the single market to the detriment of partners with less fiscal capacity. although high inflation continues to directly harm the population, the swedish presidency programme does not contain a single commitment on the social pillar. this is a grave mistake, mr kristersson, because the objectives of the gothenburg summit in 2017 are the only beacon that can guide us towards a social, strong, fair and opportunity-based europe. the 2008 debt crisis, for which austerity was a failed solution, is a clear example. now, the energy crisis will be the end of the marginalist system. the current electricity market, where renewables account for 50% of electricity production, is not a model for the future. the time has come to adopt a comprehensive electricity market reform to limit the impact of gas on the electricity bill. mr prime minister, give a sincere commitment to the european parliament that the swedish presidency will continue to lead the fight against climate change. it is true that in your speech you have put forward in very clear terms that commitment to a greener europe, but it is also true that your government has eliminated subsidies for electric vehicles, has limited the targets for reducing biofuels and, moreover, your far-right partner in this house continually votes against the directives in the package of measures 'objective 55'. the story doesn't have a single direction, mr. kristersson. it is not the time to be dragged along by the far right to walk in the opposite direction of science. climate change and putin's war require a clear and decisive commitment to renewable energy, because the longed-for strategic autonomy will only become a reality when the 27 get rid of the heavy slate of fossil fuels. the defence of common achievements requires firmness in the face of the continuing antagonism between hungary and poland. we trust that he will keep his word to speed up the article 7 procedures to stop his autocratic drift. you represent a modern, progressive country which has traditionally been at the forefront of human rights, but your presidency programme contains not a single reference to women or migrants. what is your proposal to ensure that half the population of our union, women, continue to win the rights that guarantee equal opportunities? on gender equality, we will not take a step back. the gender violence and pay transparency directives should be a reality by 2023 and your presidency has a lot of work to do in this area. the future of our union also depends on migrants having a response to the situation we are experiencing at the moment. it is a moral imperative that we do not again live the shame of fighting among prime ministers for rescuing human beings from certain death as the law of the sea demands. only the final conclusion of the new pact on migration and asylum will prevent the outbursts of the radical leaders who condition our migration policy. mr kristersson, history teaches us that the right-wing extremist agenda is often rooted in emotions and false solutions. it is their right to exploit social unrest and it is our duty as democrats to neutralise this situation. i extend to you the hand of the social democratic family, so that together we can strengthen the resurgence of europeanism and continue to guarantee new solutions to the problems of citizens, who are more aware than ever that only unity makes strength.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madame president, welcome to the european parliament, prime minister. we, the greens, european free alliance, have absolutely no doubt that sweden, has the logistical and administrative capabilities to successfully conduct the work of the eu council of ministers for the coming six months. however, i need to be very frank with you. we have grave concerns regarding the direction which your government will choose to lead the coming legislative work. the three parties of your minority government have certainly proven time and again to be loyal and committed partners of the european project. after all, it was the moderates, the christian democrats and the liberals who, together with the centre party, brought freedom to the eu. that’s a fact. but unlike 30 years ago, your government is now being held hostage by the swedish democrats, an extreme right-wing populist eurosceptic party that is actually the largest member of your coalition. and despite your claims to the contrary, your agreement with them gives them a direct say, not just on national, but also on eu policies. asylum and migration is the most glaring example of that influence. since 2015, the eu member states have been unable, i should say, unwilling to find common response to a challenge that is unlikely to fade away anytime soon. as a result, people have been dying at our borders in a blatant denial of the values on which the eu is built. and even before taking the helm of the council, your government has already renounced any effort to solve this crisis. what is this, if not the influence, the direct influence, of your anti-migrant coalition partner? you may say that, at least on climate, the swedish democrats, who deny the gravity of the challenge, did not dictate the agenda, and the priority given to the green energy transition is indeed welcome. but the other issues crucial to the preservation of the planet as our common home are completely absent from your roadmap. this is so surprising when we know how much the swedish democrats block any serious effort to restore the ecosystems on which we depend for lives and livelihoods. i am thinking in particular to the urgent need to drastically reduce the use of pesticides, an issue that your presidency seems to totally neglect. so beyond the nice slogans, we will judge you on what you will deliver, and we hope you will positively surprise us. mr prime minister, when we met in stockholm, i asked you why on earth you and your government partners chose to engage with a party that is rooted in nationalism and white supremacism? your flabbergasting answer was because we agree with them on so many things. your priorities include the safeguarding of our democratic values and the rule of law. still, you chose to collaborate with those who threaten these very extreme values. so tell me, manfred weber, tell me, stéphane séjourné, where will this end? how far are you prepared to follow your swedish colleagues in their new friendships with a party that openly opposes the values that you yourself profess in this house? is it your secret dream, hope, ambition that the swedish alliance will become the blueprint for the eu after 2024?
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-president šefčovič, prime minister, welcome to the european parliament, the swedish presidency certainly comes with great expectations, at a difficult time, but in a semester that we hope will be a renaissance after the difficulties and the great crises we faced during this year. the priorities you have put on the table are priorities on which we expect concrete responses and work that goes beyond the emergency response, but look at the next 20 or 30 years and the structural future of the european union, starting with the hottest, the hottest issue, that of energy. it is true that, on the one hand, as vice-president šefčovič has said, the winter is passing better than we would have expected, but in my opinion it is perhaps more due to the chance and the grace of a less rigid climate than to the effectiveness of the responses we have put in place in these months. we expect concrete structural action on this, because the price of gas still remains well above the average of recent years and undermines not only the competitiveness of european companies but also the survival of our citizens. the economic issue has been raised. many colleagues have spoken about the revision of the state aid rules and this is certainly something we must do. but be careful because this is not coming and it is not happening without a cost. of the hundreds of billions of state aid schemes approved in the last year, 80% went to and were requested from the two largest economies within the european union. i am thinking here of the need to make the internal market more sustainable and to make it more transparent. and the last point on immigration, we've talked about, we've been trying to reach an agreement for many years, but we're focusing on the wrong issue, which is redistribution. i hope that the swedish presidency will take up the matter with a clear objective: the protection of our external borders to reduce arrivals. only then will we reduce the deaths at sea. only then will we be able to make the situation on the continent more sustainable. only with lower arrival numbers will we finally get everyone talking about redistribution. and one last point: we talked about ukraine. the support of this house for the ukrainian people has been unconditional this year, but there is another people who are crying out for help and who are calling on the european union. it is the suffering iranian people who are crying out for freedom that we must listen to. we also expect the swedish presidency to take strong and concrete action against the ayatollahs.
for the ecr group. president. - the debate is closed. the prime minister kristersson! welcome to the european parliament! one thing we have in common is a respect for gösta bohman's political achievement, his fight for freedom against the big state. now the big state is making a comeback at eu level. you know that brexit did not lead to the necessary introspection in brussels and that the centralists saw their chance. you know that power that is transferred to brussels never comes back. you know that the eu's regulatory framework is becoming more and more onerous and that the eu is regulating more and more of the lives of its citizens. prime minister! the principle of subsidiarity would limit the transfer of power. that's not what happened. crisis after crisis is used to transfer power to brussels. the eu would promote free trade and fight protectionism. that's not what happened. instead, protectionist green investment aid financed by loans is proposed, just like the corona fund. we would be able to keep our labour market model. it didn't. to this can be added eu decisions on forestry, hunting, energy, fuels, quotas, migration and asylum. prime minister! in sweden, the moderates have finally adopted a realistic migration policy, but your party has essentially accepted commissioner for migration ylva johansson's proposal to give brussels control over the volume of migration. because even if your line means that you can pay for not receiving brussels' migrant quotas, it is a matter of fines in the billions to be able to pursue an independent migration policy. the reduction obligation, which means that the government may have to pay up to 20 billion in fines to meet its election promises, should be frightening. we also know that the pressure of migration will increase. it's just studying the un population projections for africa and the middle east. frontex is now sounding the alarm about the biggest illegal migration since 2016. the migration pact is not designed to deal with the migration pressures of the future. we must not give up control of the migration volumes. prime minister! down here, the great state is growing. the financing of the crown fund by joint debt is now a precedent. those sitting here today - from the left to your own ppe group - are calling for more debt, new eu taxes and more transfers of power. and my question is, when are the moderates going to draw the conclusions from this? the prime minister kristersson: gösta bohman fought for what he believed in, and so can you! i am convinced that many of your voters, not just mine, would appreciate sweden's threat of a veto against indebtedness for future generations and a referendum lock that gives the swedish people an opportunity to have their say on the major transfers of power that are planned. more than you think would welcome a changed course away from the united states of europe, to safeguarding individual freedom, the competitiveness of companies and sweden's sovereignty. i wish you luck!
acting president of the council. president. - the debate is closed. thank you for the congratulations. i also thank you for the kind questions and critical questions, and i thank you for the greeting about taking inspiration from digital spotify and analog ikea. i see them as two good examples of swedes trying to make a difference in the outside world. as manfred weber said, this is our third presidency: 2001 and 2009. different times, different issues and different treaties - very different conditions, but i can assure the house that i draw good inspiration both from these two presidencies and from the prime ministers who led sweden at the time. i would like to start with sweden's relationship with the european union. sweden has long had a very dubious view of the eu - let's be honest about it. from the 1960s onwards, eu membership was considered incompatible with swedish neutrality. for many, this is difficult to understand: eu membership was considered to be in conflict with swedish neutrality. the parties on my side were strong in their support for joining the eu. on the other hand, they were very skeptical. then we had a referendum that gave a clear answer that sweden should join the eu. from then on, the basic consensus on sweden's role in the eu has been growing stronger. now eight out of eight parties in the swedish parliament are in favour of swedish eu membership: eight out of eight! long was five games out of eight. there was one on my side and two on the other side who were against it. now everyone is for. i attach great importance to the conditions for good cooperation in sweden, for europe. that doesn't mean everyone thinks the same way. this does not mean that all parties have the same view on exactly what should be common european issues, much less on how to solve what are common european issues. that is what democracy is all about, both at home and in this house. i have a lot of respect for that. someone also mentioned security policy. six of the eight parties support sweden's nato application, along with finland. only the left party and the environment party are against sweden changing its security policy. it is also a tremendous strength as we move towards nato cooperation. to mention something about domestic politics, there are four parties that have agreed to solve really big problems in sweden, agreed to a paradigm shift in swedish politics in a number of areas that require very resolute action. we're talking about stopping the organized, major crime that you've all read about: one shooting a day, several bombings a week. no other country in the eu has had a similar development as sweden. it is about reducing immigration to sweden so that we have a chance to cope with the integration of the hundreds of thousands of people who have come to our country, and so that we can remain an open, equal country where many people have equal opportunities. it is about rearranging the whole energy policy so that we can cope with the climate change, with electrification with clean electricity a massive investment in building new swedish nuclear power together with other countries in europe that are also going that way, so that we can become completely fossil free in time. all this we have agreed to change the course of swedish politics. this is domestic policy, but since it was mentioned here in the house, i would like to mention it to you as well. the government that sweden has now formed is a completely normal nordic government since 2001 it has been tried in finland, it has been tried in norway, it has been tried in denmark with good results. at the same time, the nordic region is one of the most open, tolerant and free regions in the world - some of the world's most stable democracies. i feel very safe in the government i have formed in sweden. the single market is 30 years old. that is very good, but as some have mentioned, there is much more to be done, for example the digital single market, the single market for services. there is still much to be done, not least for all the countries which today have service economies as their dominant feature. the american initiative on the ira contains both threats and opportunities. let's just say it's good that the united states is back in the climate work. let us appreciate it to the full. it would be a lot worse if the united states wasn't. basically, no global climate action can work unless the united states, and eventually india and china, are part of the global climate action. the eu's position as the world's leading climate hub is a good start. the united states' involvement is fundamental. it's also true that the united states is now acting on what china has been doing for many years. we can also have a fairly good understanding of this, but it also risks affecting european companies in a way that we do not think is good. let us now analyse the consequences of the american initiative and the consequences of the various options. let us also look at the short term and act wisely in response to the united states and in the long term, and not do things in the short term that could be harmful to the european economy in the long term. we have a number of urgent migration issues. i have naturally spoken to belgium, the netherlands and austria recently. let's face it, this is an emergency. we have had an increase in irregular migration flows of 70% in 2022. i have every respect that something will have to be done. at the same time, we have long-term migration issues which are also being dealt with in the way that was intended in the past. in the short term, it is about external border issues, relations with third countries and return, but much more needs to be done. the social pillar was mentioned. it is no secret that sweden is basically very happy with the form of wage formation that we have in sweden and has no plans to abandon the working model. in the end, the eu has much more common things to be involved in, both in the short and long term, than taking responsibility for national social and welfare policy matters. on the energy side: we have a fifty percent increase in wind energy in sweden in the coming years. we have a strong increase in nuclear energy in sweden in the coming decades. the most commonly sold car in sweden last year was an electric car. what we need to do now is to provide these cars with clean electricity at a reasonable price and in an infrastructure so that it is available to everyone. thank you for all the company. thank you for all the questions. i'll be glad to come back.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the vice president, the prime minister! the moderates have been a driving force for europe for over 60 years. and we were, as the prime minister said, involved in bringing sweden into the european union. the fact that we now have a moderate-led government which is also leading the swedish presidency means a great deal. it will mean stronger and increased support for ukraine, a wholehearted focus on eu competitiveness, delivering the last of the climate package, fit for 55, and upholding the rule of law throughout the eu. but also that we can finally move from lockdowns to creating a common, functioning and sustainable european migration policy. i want to make it clear that the european parliament has high expectations of the swedish presidency, so that you will ensure that the council now also moves forward. the eu shares a common external border, and the vast majority of people recognise that we need to work together if we are to manage immigration, if we are to reduce irregular migration, but also to provide protection for those who need it. there are no easy negotiations ahead, but we now have a unique opportunity to take responsibility as well. we must move away from a situation where people die in the mediterranean, where a few member states bear the brunt of the responsibility, where smugglers decide how many people arrive in europe and where we see mistrust between member states and from citizens. so let us take the swedish presidency and turn words into action. good luck to you.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the commission and prime minister kristersson! there are always high expectations for a presidency, and for me as a swede it is very special when we now welcome the swedish presidency. but it's with mixed feelings that i stand here today. sweden is well known internationally for its successful work on climate, gender equality and issues relating to democracy and the rule of law. but, and it must be said, today sweden is led by a right-wing conservative government with the support of a larger nationalist, far-right party, which also means that on the eu issue the sweden democrats are in the lead. how will this affect our work? in your speech, prime minister, you give an image that the green transition is a continuing priority issue for sweden. but back home in sweden, you've obviously abandoned the climate goals. in it, the sweden democrats say that all eu climate policy must be negotiated with them before it goes ahead. are these just beautiful words or should sweden continue to lead the climate change? for more than a decade, sweden has also topped the eu's gender equality index and pushed for a more equal eu. the prime minister began the government's work of scrapping the successful feminist foreign policy, and today the prime minister did not mention the word equality in his speech. will you be working in the presidency for gender equality? in a difficult time of war and crisis, political courage, clear leadership and responsible decision-making are required. i am faced with a concern here in parliament, and i look forward to the government now taking over the swedish presidency. up to the proof of a stronger eu where we take responsibility together! so welcome to that job, ulf kristersson!
madam president, i would like to thank you. mr prime minister, commission, distinguished members of the house! sweden takes over the presidency at a turbulent time the war in ukraine and global inflation hitting the eu hard but at an important time. our citizens across the eu are looking to the eu for solutions that are hard to come by. it's no secret, prime minister, that my party, the centre party, is pursuing a policy that runs counter to much of the swedish government's direction. but today i am proud to hear you, ulf kristersson, here in the stronghold of democracy in the european parliament. and it is with great pride that i have followed the beginning of the swedish presidency of the european union. at the same time, there is concern in a range of policy areas. it's about the fate of the climate. we have the biggest climate package in the history of the eu on the table, but half of the proposals are not yet in place. while the government at home is wavering, the country is now set to try to push through a package of legislation aimed at securing climate neutrality by 2050. it's about the migration. for eight years we in this house have fought against the council to pass legislation on migration in order to have a sustainable, legally secure and humane refugee and migration policy. will the swedish government now also be able to take responsibility for migration policy in the future? that's the question. last but not least, my concern is about our democracy in the eu. our union is built on values, and if we can't defend them, who are we? we have a real identity crisis. the center party will always be a flashlight for holding illiberal leaders like orbán and kaczyński accountable when they threaten our liberal democracy. will your government be able to defend european values when it's backsliding at home? after almost 30 years in the eu, sweden now has the great responsibility of holding the presidency of the council of ministers. i wish the government good luck and i hope that all of us swedes will make the best and most of the presidency.
madam president, i would like to thank you. sweden the new eu presidency is led by a puppet government which, in many areas, carries out far-right policies. the swedish presidency is thus putting its finger on the question: is it beautiful ideals or our actual actions that define us as a union? i ask because pandora's box is wide open. in sweden, it was the prime minister who opened it when he invited the far right to the table, and it was the liberals who gave him the key. the prime minister of sweden is not stupid and not fooled. he knows what he's doing. he thinks it's worth it. right-wing extremism is something that comes at the price of power. and he's not alone, unfortunately. the far-right wave we see in the eu is often made possible by conservatives and liberals. hédi fried was a holocaust survivor. she reminded me and many others that grains of sand are added to grains of sand. and before you know it, there's a whole sand pile in front of you. what was unthinkable just a few years ago is now the new normal. to say one thing and then do another without shame. to speak beautifully and loudly about the green transition and the rule of law, but to let climate deniers, with viktor orbán as a role model, hold the reins. we must be many who dare to keep pointing out the grains of sand, who refuse to accept that human rights do not apply to everyone but only to some, and who protest when unscientific decisions are made in the midst of a burning climate emergency. future generations will judge us harshly, dividing us into those who made it possible and those who resisted.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the commission, the prime minister. it's easy to take for granted what you already have. that is the case with european cooperation. the eu has evolved from a battlefield to one of the world's best places to live, with peace, freedom and democracy. but it didn't just happen. our european union is the result of compromise and democratic cooperation. it is what it is, thanks to will and vision. i am glad that prime minister ulf kristersson is so clear that sweden as the presidency will work hard for the values we hold dear. the message to hungary and poland and to all the right-wing populists in europe is crystal clear. it must mean that if you don't respect the rules of the game, there will be consequences. turning our backs on the eu's common values means turning our backs on funds and grants. the eu is a cooperation, not an atm. a strong democratic eu is also the prerequisite for the eu's continued development as the world's leading environmental organisation. a europe that takes the lead in global climate action and prevents nationalism and climate denial from slowing down european environmental action. the swedish presidency's willingness to accept the eu's new climate package is therefore important and welcome. and finally, as the prime minister said, ukraine is not only fighting for its own existence, but also for ours, and we will continue to give ukraine all our support. i wish the government a successful six months and look forward to working with you.
madam president, i would like to thank you. members of the house! prime minister! i am both proud and happy that the swedish presidency was inaugurated in my home region in northern sweden. it's a region that has a lot of the technology and development that we need for the green transition: fossil-free steel, battery factories, new battery technology, green energy. however, if we are to reach our full potential, we need to build communities, and we need all levels to be involved. we need better functioning infrastructure, training, skills, ports, roads and railways. the municipalities must have more, the regions must have more, as must the companies, the state and the eu. today there is a concern not just on my part. it's not just from the opposition. will the government be involved? will the government deliver? and this applies to many areas. yesterday we heard on swedish radio that a company executive was actually talking about the investment that the prime minister was also talking about, in western sweden between volvo and northvolt. will there be power? will there be wind power? he wondered. that is what we can get in a few years. in 15 years, we could have new nuclear power, but by then it'll be too late. i hope, therefore, that the swedish government will remove the anxiety that exists around the green transition, around energy, around building all of sweden and building the eu together. the role of sweden in the eu must be developed and strengthened. small countries should use beautiful words. we have far too few beautiful words in the world today. we need every little beautiful word we can find. however, it is not beautiful words that give influence, but it is being an example in every way, especially for a small country. good luck to sweden!
madam president, i would like to thank you. prime minister! commissioner šefčovič, i have to ask you to leave. as a swedish and a moderate, i look forward to the swedish presidency with great confidence. sweden is taking the lead at a time when europe is being pressured by several parallel crises: russia's brutal war in ukraine, an increasingly urgent climate challenge, electricity prices and inflation sending shock waves through the economy, and european companies facing increasingly tough global competition. let me emphasize the importance of competitiveness. europe is lagging behind, not just in the present emergency, but we have been lagging behind for a long time. we've failed with the business climate. the bureaucracy is too heavy, and the taxes are too high. we must speak out clearly and the crisis must be a stimulus to action. the improvement of the business climate is urgent if we are to strengthen our global economic position. so i really want to applaud the prime minister for placing competitiveness so clearly at the heart of the presidency. in these difficult times, we cannot afford to continue as if nothing had happened. incentives for entrepreneurship need to be strengthened. free trade agreements need to be approved. bureaucracy must be eliminated. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. we need to explore every possible way of improving the business climate. it is only through viable enterprises that we can speed up the return to growth and economic stability. a good business climate is the key to prosperity for european citizens. i wish the prime minister, the minister for european affairs and the whole swedish government good luck!
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? mr. prime minister ulf kristersson! i have to go. at a time when anxiety has seated itself in every cell of our time, and the future seems uncertain, it makes me think of the words of prime minister olof palme: society is the work of man. if something is wrong, we can change it. my colleagues! every week at least 50 women are murdered in the eu. let it sink in. but not a word about this heinous crime was mentioned in prime minister kristerson's speech. as the european parliament's chief negotiator for the directive on violence by men against women and intimate partner violence, my question to prime minister ulf kristersson is: will the swedish presidency actively work towards, as i and my colleague frances fitzgerald, who is the co-rapporteur, propose, exporting the swedish sex-buying legislation and the legislation on consent? the swedish right-wing government's lack of global leadership should be scrapped. the deafness to the challenges of the world shocks us all by the abolition of sweden's feminist foreign policy and the cutting of aid. it does not belong in a time of global challenges, especially at a time when women and girls in different parts of kurdistan, in iran, in afghanistan and around the world are crying out 'women, life, freedom'. the presidency says it will give priority to a freer and safer eu world. how can one contribute to that, when one sits silently in the face of the regime of oppression in iran, when one does not dare to call for the terrorism stamp of the irgc and flatly submits to despots like erdoğan in turkey? with that said, however, i wish the prime minister and the swedish presidency good luck in their work.
mr president, mr prime minister kristersson, i would like to wish sweden every success in your presidency. i think sweden has chosen very good topics for its presidency: security, the rule of law, the green and digital transition, of course, but above all i appreciate that you have placed competitiveness very strongly at the centre of your presidency. we must ensure that europe continues to prosper in the future, that we have successful businesses and that we have jobs. it requires that we have a skilled workforce and legislation that encourages innovation and investment in europe. i am very pleased that sweden has made better regulation one of its priority projects and that you are hosting a conference on this subject in stockholm next week. i hope you will support all the initiatives that promote european competitiveness. the president of the commission committed himself in this chamber this autumn to the fact that the commission will in future carry out a competitiveness assessment of all its legislative projects. i hope that the swedish presidency will certainly take this matter forward with the council. we in parliament consider this to be of the utmost importance. we must ensure that europe is competitive.
the president of the european parliament, mrs roberta metsola! the prime minister of sweden, ulf kristersson! my colleagues! i note that the social democrats and the green party have not really recovered from their electoral defeat in sweden. if you have demolished sweden's electricity system and turned a blind eye to the high crime rate, then there is only scare propaganda and dirty talk left. because we have a big problem. we have the greatest security threat to europe with russia's war on ukraine, which is the greatest threat since world war ii. we have skyrocketing household prices and a serious energy and climate crisis. this requires a strong eu and a united europe. my colleagues! it was the moderates who brought sweden into the eu. it is the moderates who have pushed for sweden to join nato. i am convinced that moderate leadership is needed, that pro-european parties are needed right now, and that this is more important than ever. good luck to you, ulf kristersson! europe is counting on the leadership of sweden and the government.
mr president, the commission! after all, video games are more than entertainment. it's an important part of our culture and our identity, but it's also a great source of nourishment. computer games are a source of joy and community, while they can contribute to important skills such as problem-solving, cooperation and creativity. but in our work, we can never turn a blind eye to the negative effects. we need to ensure inclusion, gender equality and the promotion of a fair and safe environment for gambling. strong and secure consumer protection is therefore essential. we social democrats want as many people as possible to have the opportunity to enjoy these computer games. we will continue to work to ensure that all players have the right to a safe and positive gaming experience. this is important for all children and young people.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! zero tolerance there should be no doubt that the eu institutions must have zero tolerance for the terrible poison of corruption, a poison that damages our institutions, damages the trust in politicians and damages democracy. since the accusations were discovered in december, we in the socialist group have been working intensively to implement reforms and to fight corruption. we need to increase accountability, transparency and integrity, and i therefore welcome commissioner ylva johansson's proposal and the important work of the european parliament. this is about our citizens and their full confidence in the eu and our democratic processes. there should be no doubt that we are united in our zero tolerance for all forms of corruption and foreign interference.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the words ‘woman’, ‘life’ and ‘freedom’ embody liberty. liberty for all people is achieved through real actions. it is now time to consign the brutal regime of iran to the dustbin of history. the words of the international community are not enough anymore, though. actions are crucial if we want to stop delaying the moment of freedom. the eu must designate the irgc as a terrorist organisation. the eu must sanction the leadership of the regime of the islamic republic of iran, including their families. the words ‘zhan, zhian, azadi’ are three words that a couple of months ago one could hear in jîna ‘mahsa’ amini’s birthplace, the kurdistan region, but now they are echoed all over iran. the women of iran have had enough. the whole population has had enough of decades of oppression. let us listen to their voices. let us send a clear message to the mullahs: (the speaker continued in a non-official language)woman, life, freedom.
for the ppe group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: protecting the eu's budget and financial interests is fundamental to citizens' confidence. we must ensure that taxpayers' money is used correctly and efficiently. corruption, fraud, fraud, crime - these things breed anger and disappointment, but also suspicion and anxiety. it must therefore be crystal clear that the european parliament has zero tolerance for the misuse of eu funds. whether it is mistakes or organised crime, the problems must be addressed. whether it is a small-scale fraud by a single company or a failure by states and governments to respect the rule of law, everything must be investigated and remedied. that's how zealous we're supposed to be. that is why it is good that there is broad support in parliament for increasing the eu's efforts in the fight against fraud. however, one aspect was missing when the negotiations on this report began, namely that of eu funds spent outside the eu's borders. i am glad that my colleagues agreed with my proposal to not only focus on fraud and corruption within the eu, and to ignore the large sums going to the eu's candidate and partner countries. we must demand strong action against corruption in all countries receiving eu aid. if partner and candidate countries show a clear lack of will or ability to fight corruption, eu support must be cut off. it is totally unacceptable that eu funds continue to flow to corrupt recipients. my proposals won the majority of the other political groups, and the text we now have to vote on includes new recommendations, such as that the eu should freeze budgetary support to third countries that fail to take action against widespread corruption, and that the fight against corruption should be given higher priority in the negotiations with eu candidate countries. i therefore hope that the report will receive the full support of parliament tomorrow. there are different views on the size of the eu budget. i myself and the christian democrats think that the eu should have a much smaller budget. but whatever one's opinion on the size of the budget, i am sure we all agree that irregularities, fraud and corruption must be fought.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, minister, what is the matter? the extreme right in this parliament spews its xenophobia without any consequences. in their hateful, extreme propaganda, there is no accountability for the radicalization that they have contributed to our societies. they are good at labelling everyone else as terrorists, but they are not able to see their own responsibility for what has led to right-wing terrorism in europe. i'm frankly afraid of running into any of your followers on the street one night. not to mention my concern for my children if they were to meet your followers who listen to you constantly... and you've got a political platform here to spread your hatred, your conspiracy theories and your racism. i and all other europeans have the right to be free from abuse and racism and terrorism in the streets and squares of the eu. the battle for democracy is a daily occurrence. but we must not give in. democracy is the product of a long and hard struggle, and that is why we must constantly and constantly fight for it. let us not forget the principles that are dear to our hearts, the principles that have built our union. but let us not forget those who constantly undermine these principles, leading to people being killed because of your hateful rhetoric.
madam president, commissioner, minister, democracy is in danger. the coup d’état attempt in germany in december by far—right extremists goes back decades in history. this development has not happened over one night. it hasn’t happened over a week. it has happened step by step. we social democrats, have been warning for this development for a long while. conservatives and, unfortunately, also some liberals have tried to undermine our warnings, claiming we imitated the boy who cried wolf. we never imitated anyone because the wolf in sheep’s clothing was easy to detect. there has never existed such a thing as ‘far right only’, because the far right are in their nature extremists. they might dress like me and you, but the sound of their boots hitting the ground is just as audible today as it was in 1930s and 1940s europe. normalisation of right—wing extreme parties also mean normalisation of their ideologies. when these kind of ideologies normalise, the distance between their words and their actions shrinks. that’s when the rule of law starts to get attacked. and our democratic constitutions are in danger. in germany, the us and brazil we have seen these extremist forces in actions. some of their friends, unfortunately, also sit in this parliament, whether they are representing sweden, italy, germany, france or any other member state, their mission is the same. as democrats, we should know better than normalising them. shame on all of those even cooperating with them. colleagues, remember that their words are not only words. their words can smash our democracies into rubble. democracies must be fought for and defended by every generation.
madam president, i would like to thank you. for some of us in this room, the threats of right-wing extremism have haunted us since we were little kids. they've shaped us, built us, and through life, they've reminded us that just because you look the way you do, there are people who hate you so much that they're willing to resort to violence. we also know that behind the extremists are right-wing populists who, with words full of contempt and hatred, not only sanction but activate violence. these right-wing populists are here in the european parliament and they are in the swedish parliament. if we want to stop the threats, the hatred and the violence of the right-wing extremists, then we must also stop the right-wing populists.
mr president, i would like to thank you. my colleagues! all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. they are endowed with reason and conscience and should act toward one another in a spirit of fellowship. that is what article 1 of the united nations universal declaration of human rights says. i wonder how the criminalisation of saving lives at sea goes hand in hand with the need to act in a spirit of community. perhaps most of all, i wonder how short our human memory is, and how some can become so unfeeling that they would rather have people take their lives than be saved. it is often the same people who preach that the embryo is life, but the existing human does not seem to have human dignity. no man leaves his house, his home, his friends, his family to risk his life at sea just for fun. when the bombs fall and the oppression knocks on your door, you have no choice. empathy and humanity - and perhaps most of all our human duty to help one another - can never be criminalized. the governments of italy, greece and other countries are acting shamefully. we need a common, functioning, sustainable and humane migration and asylum policy that respects international law. i can see why the right is afraid of international law, namely because... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, in february, parliament will vote on this report with recommendations on how to update the european works council directive. european works councils today are a well-integrated part of an increasingly international labour market and the thousand or so existing active ones fill an important role for social dialogue, consultation procedures and overall industrial relations, all key parts of a modern social market economy. well-functioning european works councils complement national consultation and information mechanisms on transnational matters and thereby play a powerful role in adding to the european competitiveness and also more and better-paid jobs. but if councils that are set up get the opportunity to operate according to unbalanced rules, on the other hand, they risk undermining european competitiveness and european job creation. i therefore must raise my voice to the calls for new rules that open up for these councils to get the power to suspend the management decisions that are made in companies. this is a devastating idea. i urge colleagues, with european jobs and european competitiveness in mind, to vote against this part of the text next month.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. ladies and gentlemen! we are celebrating the 30th anniversary of the european single market at this plenary session. it is one of the pillars of the european union, and for the last three decades we have worked with determination to remove barriers to the free movement of people, services and capital. and while it is certainly not a process that can ever be considered completely completed, much has been accomplished. the economic realities have also changed considerably during the 30 years of the construction of the common market. and we already know that sustainable, sustainable and inclusive development cannot happen without accompanying social policies and protecting workers. i therefore believe that the european works councils, set up by the 1994 regulation, almost immediately after the establishment of the common market, are also a response to global challenges. they are an important element of worker protection in a situation where more and more european companies operate in markets in a few or a dozen countries. but as i said at the beginning, these 30 years have brought a lot of economic change. and even the 2009 recast of the directive has proved to be insufficient over time. i therefore consider it right to call for a review of the directive. and i am glad that once again the european parliament is the initiator of such changes. although the number of more than a thousand works councils currently in operation may be impressive, the declining trend in their formation is something that may be worrying. i am in favour of a balanced approach, which is why i think a new revision is necessary. however, it should focus on solutions that improve the enforcement and implementation of existing legislation so that next year will be a good occasion to celebrate another 30 years in this area.
a uachtaráin, i welcome this legislative own-initiative report, which calls for an ambitious and long-awaited revision of the european works council directive. the ewc directive sets out important provisions on the right to information and consultation of employees on matters of transnational character in large undertakings, which are fundamental parts of eu social policy. they are also key elements to a prospering and healthy economy. as we see from ongoing strikes in the united kingdom, ensuring proper workplace relations is key to a productive business and economy. we only have to look at the statistics. in 2020, in the first year of the coronavirus pandemic, lockdowns across the eu hit member state economies heavily and employment fell. however, employment fell by only 2.8% in member states with well-developed industrial relations systems. there is a message there. these states perform better, and far fewer workers lost their jobs because of good relations. for this reason, i support my colleagues in their call for reform of some elements of the ewc directive. i think the report takes a reasonable and pragmatic approach to improving compliance and enforcement, and this will have a wider benefit for the economy overall. so i compliment the rapporteurs on doing a very good job. this could lead to far better industrial relations and prosperity for europe as a result. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
blue-card reply. – yes, fair point. obviously the epp has a very good approach to industrial development and ensuring that jobs are a priority. one of the points often made by our leader manfred weber is ‘jobs, jobs, jobs’. but obviously conditions have to come with those jobs, and obviously there is a responsibility both on employers and employees. and i think by having this working directive, where we all agree on what should be done, that is very clear in relation to people’s rights, then that will be absolutely a positive. sanctions may or may not be necessary, but that would be a last resort. everybody knows the key to good industrial relations is to have a good relationship, to sit down and negotiate and come to an agreement. i’ve seen that in ireland over the last number of years, and it has worked very well. if there’s mutual respect – that’s the key: mutual respect between workers and employers – then i think we will have a very good situation in ireland and in the rest of europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it all comes down to the employee's influence in the workplace. democracy means that our employees feel better and have influence over their lives, both at work and at home. but it also strengthens the resilience and competitiveness of companies. today, our workplaces look very different. the influence of employees on their own work is affected by the changing labour market we have. it is not obvious that a workplace today is characterized by union strength and collective agreements. this is why we must ensure that workers are informed and consulted in good time about all decisions affecting their working situation, regardless of where they work. trade unions must be informed and involved throughout the decision-making process with the employer and at all relevant levels. we need to put democracy, participation and influence at the centre of our workplaces. mr president, trade union rights are human rights.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i want to say from the outset that yes, we need to adapt the legislation, we need to strengthen workers' rights and the relationship between works councils and workers. but, commissioner, you do not think that in management personal example is very important and i will refer here to three things that have been said. this is confidential information used by works councils, trade secrets, conflicts of interest. do you not think that these three things should also be clarified in the commission's conduct towards us, the parliament? because, look, i, in the budget control committee, asked the commission, for example, about vaccine contracts and the commission said that commercial contracts are confidential. we often make resolutions and propose changes to you, and the dialogue between us and the commission is bad. i am relying on your experience, commissioner, and i believe that in order to be able to implement regulations in the european union, in the member states, as is the need to amend the directive, the european commission must set an example by its own behaviour.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first, i want to thank you for this debate, which shows very clearly that there is a large consensus in this parliament that a social market economy thrives where social dialogue between employers and workers and their representatives is well developed. i must say that when you look at those countries where this social dialogue functions well, at the level of enterprises, at the level of companies, well, these are countries where competitiveness, innovation are not weakened, but on the contrary, very often are strengthened and also work better. here we have to deal with a european issue. it’s about transborder issues, and i think this is the mission of europe to find the right solution when the interests of people, of citizens, of workers are at stake because there is obviously a european dimension. now, if we have the feeling and the proof that in some cases, in many cases, what we have is working well, but in other cases it doesn’t work well, we have to make sure that everybody has to comply with the same rules. therefore, we have to adapt and modify and amend what we have. this is a normal process. we have to draw the lessons from the real things, and this is what is at stake. now, i was a bit surprised by one comment about the commission, and as a member of the commission, i obviously have to defend the commission. so when it was said that the commission only takes note of your report, no, i’ve never said that we only take note. i was very clear and i repeat what i said in my speech in line with established practice. under the current mandate, the commission is committed to duly follow up to parliament’s resolution adopted under article 225, including with a legislative proposal. so i think this is a very clear language, and there is a clear commitment which was taken by the president of the commission in this context. now, to conclude, certainly we have to assess your proposals. and as i said also, and i have to recall it, this is a legislative proposal in social matters means that first we have to go back to social partners and to ask them to deal with this issue, before then eventually tabling our own legislative proposal. this is how the treaty functions. now, why it is so important now to deal with this issue. it’s certainly about the green deal because we have to take along workers to initiate and to proceed to all the transformations, important transformations, at the level of companies. this is very important, and i have many discussions with also representatives of the workers in companies, and it is not true that they refuse the green deal, but they want to know exactly where the where this is leading them and their company. i think this is important, and that is why social dialogue is so important in this context of big transformation. and by the way, we want now to strengthen europeans’ industrial base. we want also to promote the industrial development at the european level by enlarging the european industries at the european level. that’s why also the involvement of workers, the involvement of representatives of workers in this process is so important.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am very grateful for the debate. firstly, because i have had a lot of support for my work and for the report. but i am also very grateful for the criticism that has been voiced here today, because it also gives me the opportunity to make a point here about some of the things that i have been hearing over and over again for weeks. but the frequency with which it is repeated does not make the criticism more justified. i just want to start with what mrs bilde said. so here we have a speech on gender ratios and mass migration, and the agenda is the amendment of the directive on the establishment of a european works council. i wonder if mrs bilde has read even one page of this report. it is not the commission's intention to make a distinction between the two. it is not a question of weakening national law, french law, but of strengthening european law, of taking european works councils to a new level. i agree with guido reil, who was also a works councillor: what passage in german company law is being weakened by the fact that we are strengthening european law here? i want this passage to be named! and i would say, mrs. de la pisa carrión, what a performance you have put on here, it's unbelievable! so you're saying that companies need oxygen? i have to be honest, when i hear you speak, i feel like i need to open the window wide, i need oxygen. you are here to speak out against ideologies which ignore the human spirit, but co-determination, democracy in the workplace, social partnership, that is not an ideology, but something which ensures social peace in the workplace and in society. it's not an ideology! i think this is completely crazy. and then it says here that the legal costs cannot be borne by the company. but the costs of the work of the works council are of course borne by the company, who else, ladies and gentlemen? we're not talking about a neighborhood dispute, a divorce, a marriage, but we're talking about legal problems in a company! a works council is a body of a company, so who should bear these costs if not the company? i have to say, some of the arguments that are being made in this debate are quite adventurous. but i think we have until february 2, 2023 to straighten these things out. what i'm taking away from today is that there is broad support and one or two critics we're still picking up. and for others who come here with the attitude of a 19th-century spanish peasant, it may be hopeless anyway.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 2 february 2023.
the next item is the commission statement on the global gateway initiative (2023/2515 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for this opportunity to give you an update on the implementation of the global gateway strategy. through global gateway and its team europe initiatives we aim to address the world’s most pressing challenges: the infrastructure gap; the digital divide; climate change; pandemic recovery; increasing inequalities; and preparation for future health crises. it is our principal means to help our partner countries achieve the sustainable development goals. it is just over a year since global gateway was announced. we have used that time to set a solid foundation for the strategy, identifying key actions and establishing governance structures. now we must use 2023 to deliver progress on the ground. first, we have identified a wide range of global gateway flagship programmes across the world, to deliver real transformation in digital and green transitions, transport, health, education and other key sectors. we will push ahead with all of these in partnership with member states and the european financing institutions’ team europe, focusing and combining our efforts for greater impact. geopolitically, we have used global gateway to boost the eu’s profile with key regions of the world. we have seen the announcement of the eu investment packages at the summits with the african union in february 2022 and with asean in december. we have had important meetings with partners from the indo—pacific, and on connectivity in central asia. we will develop another important investment agenda for the eu—celac summit in july this year. second, through the european fund for sustainable development plus, we are mobilising additional funding, including private investors and businesses, acknowledging the private sector’s crucial role in the global gateway rollout. we have also made good progress with the governance of the global gateway strategy. the first meeting of the global gateway board successfully took place on 11 december under the chairmanship of president von der leyen. we were pleased that members of the european parliament were able to participate as observers, and we are grateful for their very useful contributions. there will be a dedicated business advisory group to allow exchanges with relevant european businesses. in parallel, we will continue to hold dialogues with civil society organisations. this will allow the board to give strong but realistic strategic guidance on our collective ambitions. finally, i am pleased that the global gateway and team europe initiatives are already starting to improve the eu’s and member states collective visibility, and also their impact. many eu delegations report increased cooperation with member states’ embassies on the ground. so what’s next? for this year, it is clear that our focus has to be on implementation of the initiatives and flagships already identified. we and our partners want major transformational impact, and we want it quickly. team europe’s focus will be on rapid delivery, and we look for parliament’s support in this. coupled with this will be a strong strategic communication effort to demonstrate the real value of global gateway to partner countries, businesses, multilateral partners and, of course, to the public of europe and across the world. again, the european parliament has an important role in conveying this positive message. thank you very much for your interest in this important issue, i’m looking forward to listening to your comments.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, global gateway is important and much needed, but it’s also very clear that we still have some important questions to ask about the rollout of the strategy. as i see it, the success of global gateway will depend on three things. firstly, the european union and its member states have to actually leverage the financing that has been promised. this cannot just be a rebranding or a marketing exercise. our partner countries need these investments for their development needs. but at the same time, the european union needs it too, so that we can better position ourselves geopolitically in a very competitive world. secondly, we have to ensure that the projects maximise the development impact in our partner countries. the commission has many times highlighted the positive offer that these deliver also for the local communities, and i agree. but to deliver on this promise, our investments must focus on projects and areas of mutual interest and with real country ownership. in doing so, we will also position ourselves as a viable alternative to countries like china. thirdly, we have to be able to effectively communicate global gateway. again, not as a branding or marketing exercise, but in order to explain – also to our partner countries and potential investors – the real added value of this initiative. since its launch, the parliament has been a supporter of this ambitious initiative. however, now it’s time to deliver. i would say that action now speaks louder than words.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! europe is a strong player in the world, but there is a cloud of uncertainty. the democratic values that the eu stands for are threatened and undermined by authoritarian regimes. the multilateral cooperation, or simply global neighbourhood with common rules, is in crisis since russia's move on ukraine. jobs and businesses, our entire competitiveness, are being challenged by an expansive and aggressive china. a china that is now threatening its neighbor taiwan militarily. in this context, it is entirely right that the eu should create partnerships in the south, so that countries which are in great need of foreign capital for development and green transition should not be left to turn to china the dictatorship of china. china's expansionary policy is done with strategic awareness and precision and is not just about business. we know that, we see that, and we have to deal with it before it's too late. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. it is good for europe and it is good for our partners around the world. (the speaker agreed to reply to a comment (blue card) )
(blue card) europe is a strong player in the world and the strongest force for democracy and human rights. our strength is based on openness, cooperation, trade and our willingness to cooperate with all countries of the world. however, this does not mean that we are silent and turn a blind eye to and accept dictatorships that violate human rights and threaten their neighbours. the partnerships we have with other democracies are our strength and must be developed, but we cannot ignore china. we cannot ignore countries which are still dictatorships, and unfortunately in some cases have gone in the wrong direction. that is what the strategy we are discussing here today has to deal with. that is why it is so important, as the swedish presidency said and the swedish government put forward, that we safeguard our democratic values and the principles of the rule of law within the eu. because when we are strong within europe, we are also a strong player in the world.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, commissioner hahn, eu minister roswall , soaring illegal migration, an effective return rate of 24% of individuals who should not be on european soil, unsustainable migration levels in austria, the netherlands and belgium. these are among the main reasons why migration is topping the european council agenda. italian and swedish voters also played a role there, i might add. last week, eu migration ministers declared there is an urgent need to strengthen the external borders, increase returns and prevent irregular migration. how? the commission claims there isn’t money for walls in the eu budget. but there is taxpayers’ money to waste on a eur 387 000 metaverse party that had less attendance than a july after-ski party in denmark. what about increasing returns? the commission loves to dangle those development aid carrots, but it’s afraid to stop funding countries that refuse to take back their own citizens. here’s some advice: finance border barriers, cease funding countries who refuse returns and stop talking about ‘irregular’ migrations. when citizens hear you talk about ‘illegal’ migration, that’s when they will believe you’re sincere on border protection.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, joint responsibility for the following: this is the principle that must guide the european union and all member states in addressing migration in a humane and sustainable way. the commission's willingness to speed up the migration pact so that it does not exceed 2024 is positive and the swedish presidency cannot ignore the issue. but that's not enough. i would like to ask president von der leyen and president michel: it is not acceptable that the european response to migration should be limited to accelerating returns, ignoring the structural weakness of the european asylum system. we do not accept that the union should finance member states to build walls on their borders, nor do we accept the scandalous illegal expulsions of people fleeing war and poverty. we will not tire of reminding you that the priority action must be the revision of the dublin regulation, so that the management of the first reception is no longer a burden for a few but a permanent commitment of all. the emergency façade logic imposed by the nationalists has only resulted in more irregularities and more deaths. it is time to create, also through strengthened cooperation, also by starting from the people who are involved, clearer and more humane rules without being prey to vetoes.
mr president, i would like to thank you. unfortunately, it is becoming almost tragicomic to witness the debates we have year after year on illegal migration to europe. in 2016, the eu made it clear that it could not cope with the seriousness of the situation. the gravity of that meant that tens of thousands of illegal migrants were fleeing all the way up through europe. and what has happened in the meantime? very little. last year alone, over 300,000 people entered europe illegally. more than half of those who seek asylum are rejected. but they also know, when they look at the statistics from the eu, that the chance of being sent home - even with a refusal of asylum - is vanishingly small. that is why it is unfortunately a big mistake to talk about european solutions to the asylum problem, because europe has failed. the only thing that works is to allow member states to continue to maintain their national border controls and to work towards a genuinely solidarity-based solution. a push-back model, like the one we know from australia, where we do not continue to give people false hopes that they can come to europe illegally and settle there, but actually take effective action against human trafficking and the crime that it entails.
mr president, madam minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have high hopes for the next extraordinary council which, thanks also to the determination of the italian prime minister, mr giorgia meloni, will deal with the issue of immigration. we hope that the many statements made in recent days, which seem to be moving in the right direction, will finally be followed by the facts. we must get rid of the failed logic of the indiscriminate redistribution of refugees and economic migrants and the false opposition between primary and secondary movements. we must place identification centres as close as possible to the countries of origin and transit, launch a new policy towards africa to prevent irregular flows, thereby strengthening external borders, coordinating an effective return policy, limiting the pull factor of ngos, calling on flag states to take responsibility, and guarantee asylum and genuine integration to those who are really entitled to it. now is the time for the concrete, let's do it.
mr president, the european union is accelerating the digital dossier for rapidly identifying cheap and flexible migrant workers. those who are "tied" to the eu capitalist exploitation machine by interstate agreements are claimed by each member state on its own account, while those who do not need them are expedited deportations on the convenient condition of "return" in a sordid bargain with their countries of origin. in greece, new democracy, syriza and pasok, with one voice and one vote, are promoting 'modern slave market' agreements, such as the one with bangladesh. at the same time, they are jointly defending the wretched walls of repression, with frontex as a sentry, to perpetuate the unacceptable eu secondary travel bans and the harmful eu-turkey declaration. these agreements create the problem of enclosure on the greek islands and facilitate the exploitation of the turkish bourgeoisie in competition with the greek bourgeoisie. we need asylum services in turkey, under the responsibility of the european union and the un, with human hospitality and full rights, so that the uprooted from the imperialist wars can go to their countries of real destination.
mr president, i listen to colleagues that rightfully point out that it is terrible that people are dying in the mediterranean sea. but they are not willing to do anything to go after the smugglers. they say completely no, that we should work with third countries and try to have cooperation. i also listen to some colleagues that say migration is a huge problem for europe, but they are not interested at all at delivering any european solutions. but i must say that i think it is possible to build a political majority in this house and also in the council that could agree that we need to have control of the borders; that we need to decrease irregular migration; that we need to increase returns; and yes, also, that we need to offer protection to people in europe that have the right to asylum; and that we need a stronger solidarity between the member states. this is possible to do. i wish the council good luck on your next meeting. the most important thing you can do is to get ready for trilogues because it is time to deliver.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, my thoughts are with all those affected by the earthquakes. one week has passed since the earthquakes deprived thousands of people in turkey and syria, especially in the kurdish regions, of their lives and millions of people of their safety and security, among them many of my family members. the force of nature is strong. but let’s not fool ourselves that the force of humans hasn’t anything to do with the humanitarian catastrophe. for many years, the regime has looked the other way when refusing to enforce building regulations in those areas that were affected by the earthquakes. for us with roots in the region it didn’t come as a surprise. it doesn’t come as a surprise either that the regimes in ankara and damascus have prevented help and aid from reaching many of affected areas. because what is a human life worth when refusing to send and when preventing help to reach people in need and letting more life extinguish? what is a child’s life worth while letting them spend days under rubble? a week has passed for us, but a lifetime has passed for many of those affected. instead of sending condolences to the regimes in ankara and damascus, the eu heads of state should send their condolences to the people affected through ensuring that help and aid reaches them.
madam president, politicians rarely give their opponents advice on how to win elections, but the irish protests against mass migration actually call for an exception. people are taking to the streets to alert the political establishment of communities overwhelmed, unable to handle the volumes of people entering ireland. the answer? labelling opponents ‘far right’. they did the same in sweden. as the sweden democrats entered parliament, the centre—right government made an open borders pact even with the greens. smears instead of solutions is a big reason my party became the leading party right of centre last year in sweden. i urge the irish establishment to listen to the people. avoid sweden’s mistake for the sake of the irish people, but also for the sake of europeans. the battle over eu migration policy is right here, right now. join us in the fight for secure borders and controlled migration, and avoid the fate of those who bitterly cling to open borders.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission, ladies and gentlemen! leaving fossil fuels behind is not just about greener vehicles for the climate, it's also about safety, not being dependent on putin or other oil dictatorships every time we fill up our car. fossil-powered cars are soon or already history. the automotive industry is changing rapidly and it is important that the eu gives the industry clear guidelines on when the transition must be completed by the latest. predictability is the key to keeping pace with the transition. at the same time, as we move to electric vehicles, we must also ensure that the whole of the eu has zero-carbon electricity production and that we use sustainable batteries. i'm glad the battery device arrived before christmas. and to those on the right who are against this bill, i want to end by saying: i guess the stone age didn't end because it ended with no stones.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? we have a historic vote today. we now have the chance to put an end to the new fossil-fueled cars of 2035. because things are moving fast. they're getting cheaper and better, and the car companies want to be climate-smart. and it will go even faster if the policy is also clear in that direction. i want a clear end date and although i would have liked biogas to be better included, we must now take responsibility for the agreement. it is deeply irresponsible of the epp and the right wing not to support this agreement. it's time we took responsibility. it's time we take responsibility for the climate, that we choose the right path for the car. a road that is climate neutral, noise-free and healthy. it is time to vote for this now.
rapporteur. – madam president, i want to thank my co-rapporteur, łukasz kohut, and all our advisers and shadow rapporteurs for this hard work in this historic moment, which is very important to fight violence against women. i will make my speech in swedish. varje dag utsätts kvinnor och flickor i europa för misshandel, sexuella övergrepp, våldtäkter och mord. så mycket som en tredjedel av alla kvinnor i europa har utsatts för fysiskt eller sexuellt våld någon gång i sitt liv. fler än 50 kvinnor mördas i sitt eget hem varje vecka och 85 % av alla vålds- och sexualbrott anmäls aldrig till polisen. våldsutsatta kvinnor i europa upplever att det är ingen idé att anmäla. de tas inte på allvar av myndigheter. rättsväsendet utreder inte och utsatta offer får inte det stöd och skydd som de behöver. det är 2023 och fortfarande tas inte dessa grova brott på allvar. hur länge ska detta pågå? det är vår tids stora frihetsfråga att säkra rätten till ett liv utan våld. att bekämpa våld mot kvinnor är det viktigaste vi kan göra för kvinnors rätt till grundläggande frihet och för jämställdheten i hela europa. vårt viktigaste europeiska verktyg för att bekämpa våld mot kvinnor är just istanbulkonventionen och som föredragande för istanbulkonventionen har jag sett och jag vet att vi har rätt verktygslåda för att bekämpa våldet som drabbar miljontals kvinnor. det enda som nu krävs är den politiska viljan. europaparlamentet kommer denna vecka att ta ett viktigt beslut. det viktigaste vi kommer att ta på över fem år i kampen mot våld mot kvinnor. europaparlamentet står bakom att stärka arbetet för att bekämpa våldet. eu-domstolen har redan gett grönt ljus och det svenska ordförandeskapet i eu har ambitionen att få till en verklig förändring och en ratificering också i rådet. därför riktar jag mig nu direkt till alla medlemsländer i eu. det är dags att ni ratificerar istanbulkonventionen i eu. det är dags att ni tar kampen mot våld mot kvinnor på allvar. det är dags att europa går från ord till handling, för det handlar om de grundläggande rättigheterna i europa, vilken union vi vill ha. det här är en frihetsfråga, att säkra rätten till liv utan våld. så låt oss göra det nu.
madam president, 50 women per week. 2600 women per year are murdered in domestic violence. while this horrific violence takes place in europe, we are discussing whether or not we should ratify the most important regional legislation to combat violence against women and domestic violence: the istanbul convention. for a union that claims to stand up for all peoples fundamental rights. this is a shame. it shouldn't be whether or not we should ratify it. it should be how fast we can ratify it. women and girls in the union do not have time for our indecisiveness. the upcoming weeks will be crucial on the decision on which side of history the council will be standing: the right or the wrong side. let's send a clear message to them from the parliament. no one is free before all women and girls are also free in our union. i also finally want to thank the rapporteurs for the great job and the commissioner for the leadership in order to ensure that the council ratifies the convention. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
blue-card reply. – to combat gender-based violence is not any kind of poetry or anything. it is real. women and girls are being deprived of their lives. either we can send a clear message that we take the situation seriously or we can just play that we live on another planet and not do anything. we know that, unfortunately, there are too many countries within the european union that don’t have sufficient legislation in place. when refusing to ratify the most important regional legislation, then you send a very clear message to women and girls all around the union that their problems, that their lives don’t matter. so if you really want to stand up for women and girls all across the union, you should every day, during the whole year, be prepared to say ‘ratify the istanbul convention now’.
blue-card speech. – i’m not going to say i’m shocked because i’m not shocked about what is coming from the far right, but i’m getting a bit tired of the constant demonisation of migrants and people of certain colours. well, when you are standing up there, the only thing that you are doing is trying to undermine constantly the work against gender—based violence, against the violence that is occurring against women and girls. so i don’t really understand, on the one hand, the hypocrisy of demonising certain people, who don’t have anything to do with this, and on the other hand, how you refuse to take responsibility for the crimes that are taking place against women and girls all over the european union. what is your purpose here? what do you want with all of this demonisation?
madam president, i would like to thank you. my colleagues and commissioner, today is the day of love. it's time to celebrate love. but one in three women in the eu fears for her life. they're afraid of being raped. they're afraid of getting hit. they are afraid of being controlled by a man close to them, perhaps in their home. at the same time, we've heard a lot here about how this is unimportant, how this doesn't matter, when it's one of our most important tools that first illuminates the violent relationships that exist. it's trying to prevent and criminalize, but it's also trying to protect. so there's a whole range of tools. i'd like to know what ideas this right-wing nut has for protecting women. no, those six countries that have not ratified the istanbul convention yet, they have to do so now. so this is a strong call to you: bulgaria, the czech republic, hungary, latvia whose president was here today and spoke about the fundamental values of the eu, but has failed to get his country to ratify the istanbul convention lithuania and slovakia. ratify the convention now.
rapporteur. – mr president, dear colleagues, i think the debate here today shows such great engagement that we have on the fight against women, the fight against violence against women. and this engagement and this fight unite us from the left to the right, because we are still living now in 2023 and still one third of women across europe have faced violence. fifty women are killed in their homes every week and over 85% of victims of sexual violence do not report it to the police. i mean, we’ve had enough of this. this is one of the biggest fights for freedom that we have in europe today. the fight to live a life free from violence. and i think we can expect much more from europe. the european parliament is ready. we want the istanbul convention to be ratified. now it’s up to the member states and the council, and i’m glad the for engagement from the commission and commissioner dalli. and i’m also glad for the commitment from the swedish presidency, because it’s about gender equality. it’s about freedom. now it’s the moment. so let’s do this.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, minister, what is it? the commission on women is meeting in new york soon and i am delighted to be part of the parliament's delegation. i was there in 2016 on behalf of sweden and i know that the commission on women is an excellent and important opportunity to gather strength to raise our global ambitions and focus on gender equality and women's rights. we now know that russia's invasion of ukraine has affected women and children in a terrible way. we're seeing the effects of the pandemic, the climate crisis, sexual and reproductive health and rights. we've seen a backlash on women's rights and we have important issues to discuss at the conference. the issue of digitization is just like the issue of climate change. it has to go hand in hand with equality. we need equal decision-making and full access for girls and women to education and employment. it has to go hand in hand with the digital evolution. it is only then that we can increase gender equality in society at large, but also strengthen our economies. the eu must take a clear leadership role in new york and push for ambitious goals and actions. it wasn't like that in 2016 when i was there. the eu did not even have a gender equality strategy at that time. we must therefore show that within our union we are doing our part at home. we can't wait for generations to see a more equal world. it doesn't just become that. new york will be an opportunity to put gender equality on the agenda. gender equality is not only the moral right, it's smarter, it's more sustainable and it creates growth. it's the only way to build a stronger society.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner and minister! yes, when trust in politicians and eu institutions is damaged, our democracy is damaged. the public institutions and all elected representatives must set an example in respect of independence, transparency and accountability. it is a prerequisite for promoting both trust and democracy. it is a prerequisite for the functioning of our institutions. the fact that corruption has been uncovered in this parliament is very serious and it shows deficiencies which are totally unacceptable. we shall have zero tolerance and i welcome the measures that parliament has adopted so far. and i demand that the work that is being done continue to be done to ensure that we live up to the highest standards of ethical conduct that can be. there should be no doubt about the ethical rules that apply within the eu institutions. improved integrity, transparency and accountability not only benefit our institutions they are a prerequisite for our democracy. and we owe it to all eu citizens to live up to that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, this is secretary roswall. i often refer to the european parliament as the stronghold of democracy. after all, we are the only directly elected institution in the whole of the eu. we should all be proud of the trust our constituents have placed in us. i am proud every day to represent the center party, sweden and our constituents. but with that trust comes a heavy responsibility. a responsibility to keep politics clean from cheating, a responsibility to keep politics clean from corruption and, of course, from the influence of foreign power. in recent months, our constituents have unfortunately seen us fail in this responsibility. we have seen viktor orbán dismiss our criticism of his unlawful behaviour. it is the politicians in brussels who are corrupt. no code of conduct can prevent a person who is ready to commit a crime from committing it. but it should be easy to do right and hard to destroy what is ours. corruption must be fought, fraud punished and influence impeded. the world needs a strong voice for democracy, and we can be that voice. but first we have to clean our own front door.
mr president, the revolutions in the middle east and north africa brought light into the tunnel for the people that were suffering under dictatorships. however, the light went out as quickly as it appeared, but in one place it remained, tunisia. i remember it very well when walking around in the streets of tunis, after the regime of the dictator ben ali fell. i remember it also very well in the discussions with mustapha ben jaafar, the former speaker of the constituent assembly of tunisia. the light in the tunnel was there. it is therefore regrettable the path that current regime has decided to take. many hope tunisia will deepen its democratic transition, but unfortunately it not only remains, it also regresses. i met the current president kais saied myself once in 2021. back then it was many nice words expressed by him, but today we know that the words seem to have been only words. opposition and dissidents are under attack to the extent that civilians are being put before military courts. freedom of expression is not anything in sight anymore. it remains today as a dream that could have been, but never was because of president kais saied. european union has a bilateral assistance that is supposed to go to promoting good governance and rule of law, but the reality speaks for itself. deterioration on the ground is a fact. my question to the commission and to the council is how are we ensuring that no single cent of our money goes to human rights violations in tunisia?
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i want to thank you for this debate, which shows the importance that you attach to the situation in the great lakes. and i reassure you that the eu is continuously monitoring the situation. the eu calls on all its partners to redouble our common efforts to secure peace, and the great lakes region is ready to offer its renewed contribution to this joint endeavour and will do so by way of a new great lakes strategy foreseen for adoption in the coming weeks. through the deployment of its tools and policies under the frame of this new strategy and following an integrated approach, the eu will aim to help the region put an end to the continuous cycle of violence in the region and move from insecurity to trust. the people of rwanda and the drc and the region as a whole deserve, of course, to live in peace with themselves and their neighbours.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr michiel hoogeveen, on behalf of the economic and monetary committee, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) 2015/760 as regards the eligibility of assets and investment coverage, portfolio composition and diversification requirements, borrowing and other fund rules and as regards the requirements for the authorisation of european long-term investment funds, their investment policy and operating conditions (com ((2021) 0722 - c9-0435/2021 - 2021/0377 ((cod)) (a9-0196/2022).
rapporteur. – mr president, tomorrow, i hope and trust the european parliament will vote for the regulatory reform of the european long—term investments funds, commonly known as eltifs. the european parliament has been working on the eltif reform for over a year now and, as rapporteur, i am delighted that the result of the negotiations is a reason for celebration: celebration for our common efforts and joint success, celebration for europe’s economy, for small and medium—sized businesses, for job creation and, ultimately, celebration for investors and our citizens. introduced in 2015, eltifs were an important building block for the capital markets union to diversify funding of the economy. however, eltifs failed to take off successfully; too much red tape and stringent regulations restricted the true potential of the eltif framework. we addressed this underdevelopment of the eltif regime. excitingly, we are now hearing from eu asset managers and investor representatives that there is much appetite for new eltifs. as a result, this fund segment will grow by tens and, hopefully, hundreds of billions of euros over the next 3 to 5 years and ultimately be invested in the real economy. let me briefly summarise the five most important achievements of this eltif reform. first, we have broadened the scope of the investment universe. we ensured that long—term investments can be channelled to more diverse uses and projects: real estate, infrastructure projects, smes, listed companies, equity and debt instruments, loans, and specific asset classes such as securitisations. on balance, we have broadened the investment choices of retail investors and made financial products more accessible. up to this day, this was mostly reserved for institutional investors and privileged high—net—worth individuals. second, we have allowed eltifs to pursue a broader international investment mandate and, very importantly, enabled broad fund—to—fund investment strategies, which must be combined with an effective look—through approach. third, we have allowed eltifs to become more concentrated and permitted more structuring and co-investment flexibility, as well as using higher but still safe levels of borrowing. fourth, we have allowed eltifs not only to be closed—ended, but also to pursue redemptions before the end—of—life cycle. this creates flexibility in terms of both open—endedness and evergreen structures. as an optional feature, we have allowed eltifs to put in place the liquidity—matching mechanism. all these features should clearly benefit eltif investors. fifth, and finally, we have put in place a strong framework for the protection of retail investors and reinforced it with a suitability assessment that is mandatory for all retail investors. this safeguard is essential to prevent mis—selling and to ensure that retail investors can only invest in eltifs suitable for them. the co-legislators went further and introduced an extra requirement for express investor consent, as well as an investor alert to bring to the attention of retail investors the potential risk of investing. on balance, we delivered a solid and comprehensive reform. we must now carefully monitor the uptake of this fund segment and ensure that the reform delivers on its objectives. i call on market participants to ensure that the new eltifs are of high quality and designed with the interests of investors in mind. let me conclude by thanking the shadow rapporteurs, the econ chair, and the colleagues in the european parliament who have worked on, or otherwise contributed to, this reform. i also want to thank and recognise the work of the council, particularly the french and czech presidencies. lastly, i thank the european commission for its proposal, which was a strong starting point and should be an inspiration for future initiatives.
member of the commission. – mr president, indeed, can i just say – as you walk back towards your seat, michiel – that you didn’t thank yourself, but you should, because you did an excellent job on behalf of this parliament. and the results will speak for themselves. so i want to join in my appreciation for the work of both the rapporteur and all of the shadows, because this reform is very significant. i also want to acknowledge the work and role of the econ chair, ms tinagli, as well as the french and the czech presidencies, because all of you worked hard to finalise this reform and within a very short period of time. this reform is the first of our november 2021 capital markets union package to actually get through the process, so i think it leads the way. and it is very timely because we know that the capital markets are important. we need to develop them and we know, indeed, that the council conclusions of last week endorse our work on the capital markets union. both the net-zero transition and the digital transition will require hundreds of billions of euros, and public financing cannot meet these investment needs alone. so we do need private financing for our long-term competitiveness and prosperity, and that relies on well-functioning and well-developed capital markets. we need many measures to make the capital markets union a reality, and the eltif reform is one of those measures. in fact, eltif, if you like, embodies what we want to achieve with the capital markets union. these long-term investment funds and the cmu are about long-term investment in the green and digital transition, and these are vital to our future. this reform will help channel tens of billions of euro into our economy – as i said, in the green and digital. this will help our smes. it will also be invested in social, transport, energy and green infrastructure projects and in digital projects. the cmu is about enabling eu citizens to invest for their future, and this reform will unlock new investment opportunities for all citizens. it will open up new types of investment currently reserved for large institutions and high net worth individuals. and it will do this in a safe and regulated manner. so i want to thank the co-legislators for the changes you made to our proposal, especially for making the rules simpler and more flexible. on fund rules, eltifs get more flexibility in terms of fund-of-fund strategies and diversification limits. that will help them compete with other products that have similar investment objectives. on investor protection, the co-legislators struck the right balance between ensuring effective safeguards and removing unnecessary hurdles for retail investors. on sustainability, the co-legislators recognised green bonds as a category of investment assets eligible for eltifs. and finally, i would like to note that this reform – as the rapporteur has already mentioned – is a success. we have early indications from market participants that dozens of eltifs are due to be launched in the near future, and this would not have been possible without your work to revise this regulation. so my sincere thanks to the european parliament, to mr hoogeveen, for keeping a high level of ambition for this reform. and i look forward to an exchange of views, because very often the debates in this house are difficult but this one – i think – unites us. and if i may say – as i wear the green – i’ve just come from a reception marking 50 years of my member state’s membership of the european union. and while not many will be here to listen to this debate, all of the components that i talk about – that you have worked on – are important for european citizens. and i think we need to reflect on that and to thank you very sincerely for that work.
for the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner mcguinness, i have to tell you something. i would like to begin by thanking the negotiating team, led by rapporteur michiel hoogeveen, for their good cooperation in the preparation of this report. it was made easier by our agreement on the basic principles that long-term investment funds have a role to play and that they need to be made more attractive. it meant that we could make a commission proposal that was already good, even better. one of the most important and best principles in almost all legislation is to let the market decide what works and what doesn't. we have managed to agree on a text which will definitely achieve this. the agreement we are voting on in this house tomorrow is an important step towards making it more attractive to invest in europe for the long term. and it is undeniable that europe needs investment, especially in these times. it is therefore very welcome that we have succeeded in removing several unnecessary restrictions on the type of companies and projects in which eltif can invest. both large and small projects will need capital in the future. our amendments make this possible, not least for the green transition and small and mediumsized enterprises. the agreement also shows an understanding of how the modern economy works in practice. our amendments to facilitate investors in so-called fintech companies are a further illustration of this. this work is something that fills me with hope. when we in the eu actually want to facilitate investment with private capital, we can do that. it is something we also need to take into account in our other work.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, minister, colleagues! the united states now faces massive subsidies directed at american industry. this also sheds light on the problems we have with the competitiveness of the eu. but in its eagerness to appear proactive, the european commission seems to have forgotten what once made europe an attractive continent for business and trade. it is not tariffs and trade barriers, it is not new funds or more grants that have made europe strong. what is needed now is a real agenda for eu competitiveness, to build it strong in the long term. it requires more free trade, more investment in research and less bureaucracy. we need to develop the single market, not dismantle it. ultimately, growth is not created by politicians but by successful people and businesses. give them the conditions to operate, trade and compete. that is how we can build europe strong again.
madam president, it would be laughable if it were not for the cries of the epp speakers, the nationalists in the european parliament, apologising for what has happened in greece simply because there is a nationalist government. when other governments from other parties have come in, they have made a pledge that it will never end. in greece not only was an investigative journalist killed - something very bad that unfortunately also happened in other countries - but laws were even changed to give extraordinary powers to the government which led to, for months, the government spying and illegally listening - at least thirteen journalists, activists and politicians, including from this parliament, coming from opposition parties by taking control of their mobile phones, and knowing everything they are saying, and everything they are doing on their phones. illegal monitoring of a person is in itself a serious breach of the fundamental rights of every human being, a breach that should never be representative of what defines this european union. in this parliament we are working towards the media freedom act. we have a committee that's analyzing espionage, the programs that are being used by spies like this government. i hope that the nationalists, the epp, will stop being partisan and be consistent in what they say.
madam president, greece embodies many of the challenges we are facing right now. i am always amazed by how short a memory we human beings have. we live in an era when we cannot expect progress in the fields of democracy, human rights and rule of law anymore, because all energy goes to defending previous battles that have been won. our mep colleagues from nea demokratia are asking why we asked for this debate. let me take one example that might not be important for you, but it is for us. according to reporters without borders’ yearly press freedom index of 2022, the situation for journalists in greece has deteriorated dramatically to the extent that it fell from 70th place to 108th, becoming the lowest-ranking eu country. nobody has missed the wiretapping scandal – a scandal with serious consequences – as surveillance of the phones of journalists and opposition political figures. one of the victims is our own mep colleague, nikos androulakis, the president of the social democratic party in greece, pasok. when faced with this situation, the right-wing nea demokratia government replied by trying to downplay it. it is a shame. the commission must act quickly. building democracies takes years and decades, but destroying them take can take seconds.
member of the commission. – madam president, i’ve listened very carefully to this debate and will, of course, report to my colleague commissioner reynders, but i want to underline that the commission will continue our dialogue and our focus on the rule of law situation in different member states and also to say that we remain at your disposal in that regard, whether it’s in plenary, in committee or in any other format. when it comes to the situation in greece, the commission appreciates the willingness of the greek authorities to have a dialogue on the reforms to be carried out. however, i would like to stress the importance of completing all necessary reforms in terms of judicial independence and efficiency, the fight against corruption, freedom of the media, and checks and balances, and to implement them in practice. we will continue to monitor the rule of law situation in all member states, including greece, in the context of the preparation of the rule of law report for this year.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, the council attaches utmost importance of the rule of law, the defence of media freedom and the protection of journalists. we all need to step up our efforts to ensure and guarantee media freedom. it starts with us, as co-legislators, to make progress on the two legislative proposals which the commission has recently put forward. i trust that we will be able to work constructively on those issues and i look forward to the upcoming negotiations. this work, together with the other actions that we will take, will be crucial to ensure that our union is a safe place for journalists where democracy thrives. we need it now more than ever, during a troubled time that we are going through.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council: the need for rapid finalization of the roadmap (2023/2572 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you for inviting me to this debate. last week the european council clearly stated that the migration situation is a european challenge that requires a european response. i think there is a common understanding among us all that we need a comprehensive asylum reform to overcome the shortcomings of the current system. this has been recognised by the european council, which has called on both the council and parliament to continue the work on the pact on migration and asylum in accordance with the joint roadmap, which we agreed on last september. the permanent representatives of the five rotating presidencies have been meeting regularly within the members of the asylum contact group of the european parliament. i understand that these meetings have proved very positive and i have confirmed that the political will that exists in both sides is to reach a timely conclusion on all files. let me now briefly comment on the implementation of the joint roadmap by the council. during the czech presidency, a concept for a way forward on the reform of the eu’s common asylum system was developed. this foresees a balanced system of solidarity, a crisis response mechanism and responsibility. home affairs ministers considered this work a good and viable way forward at the december council. since the beginning of our presidency, work has started on the legislative proposal of the asylum and migration management regulation. we are confident that there is a willingness among all member states to make progress and to agree on a mandate that will allow us to start the interinstitutional negotiation as soon as possible. we are working on a system capable of ensuring solidarity and alleviating the burden for the affected member states. at the same time, it should improve the function of the current system, including by addressing secondary movements. in parallel, discussions continue on the border procedure under the asylum procedure regulation proposal, aiming at a fast and effective migration procedure at external borders. the council is ready to start negotiations on this file as soon as the european parliament adopts its mandate. we also aim at making substantial progress on the crisis situation regulation, and discussion at expert levels started at the end of last year. given the important links with the instrumentalisation regulation, the presidency is considering the best way forward on these two proposals. following the first useful exchange between the co—legislators on the eurodac regulation, the first substantive trilogue meeting will be held very soon, and we hope that we can make good, swift progress together. you are aware that the council also stands ready to start negotiations on the screening regulation as soon as the european parliament adopts its mandate. here, i would like to stress the importance of making progress on the interinstitutional negotiations on these files wherever possible, because delaying certain discussions may result in putting extreme pressure as we approach the end of this term. the incoming spanish and belgian presidencies will then not have sufficient time to finalise work on all the proposals. finally, with the confirmation of the provisional agreements, progress was possible on the qualification regulation, the reception conditions directive, and the resettlement framework regulation. the future steps will depend on the progress in the negotiations in all the files under the asylum and migration pact reform. the european council last week focused on the overall importance of managing migration to the eu. we agreed on stepping up our action to prevent irregular departures and loss of life, to reduce pressures on eu borders and on reception capacities, to fight against smugglers and to increase returns. this will be done by intensifying cooperation with countries of origin and transit, through mutual beneficial partnerships. i would like to finish my intervention by reiterating once again that the council remains committed to make all efforts towards the finalisation of all the files before the end of this term. thank you very much for your attention.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for the opportunity to discuss the conclusions of last week’s european council and the need to adopt the pact on migration and asylum before the end of the mandate, as agreed by co-legislators under the joint roadmap. at the last plenary, president von der leyen presented the commission’s view on the way forward. as the president proposed in her letter to eu leaders, the european council clearly recognised migration as a european challenge that requires a european response, and this is the right and only approach. it was a european response that made it possible to defeat the hybrid attack by belarus in 2021. a european response made it possible to welcome millions of ukrainian refugees fleeing putin’s bombs last year and indeed this into this year. only a european response will allow us to manage migration properly, taking advantage of the potential of legal migration and reducing irregular migration in a humane and effective manner. the lesson learned is clear: we need to act together. as proposed by the commission, eu leaders agreed that the eu needs to act on two tracks: legislative and operational. only a comprehensive renewal of our legal framework can offer a strong and sustainable foundation for eu action. the new pact on migration and asylum will make sure different work streams mutually reinforce each other, with a clear framework and rules on solidarity and responsibility. alongside the pact, the commission has also made other proposals: to step up the eu’s capacity to strengthen our external borders; to ensure that internal border checks become measures of very last resort, through a modernised schengen borders code. the council is ready to start negotiations. it is essential that this house adopts its position also with some urgency. the pact remains a number one priority for us in the commission and, indeed, i think that is shared by the council and this house: we are all fully committed. to finalise the negotiations before the end of this mandate, i think is a priority and we are talking about february 2024. i would add that the commission stands ready to support all your efforts, and we count on you, as well as the swedish and spanish presidency, to meet the challenge. in parallel to the negotiations on the pact, we need to address the challenges that we are confronted with today. we have the power to act and we have put on the table important operational measures. we now need to implement them. the european council last week had an open and frank discussion on the challenges and the measures to be prioritised in the short term. we all agree that external borders must be managed better. external borders are not just national, but they are european borders. we must strengthen them and prevent irregular migration. we are ready to increase the presence of frontex, for example, in the western balkans, through agreements with our partners. we are going to develop pilot schemes showcasing good practices on border procedures, acting as a precursor to the new pact. the objective is to support member states in taking quick decisions so that persons who are in need of protection get their status recognised quickly, while returning those not in need of protection. the commission will provide operational, technical and financial support. we will discuss with interested member states and expect to start one or more pilots in the first half of this year. we must focus on further enhancing the functioning of our external borders by fully implementing the advanced external border management that we have all already agreed on. in particular, when it comes to the it architecture on the european external borders, we need to choose our priorities in terms of funding. member states are best positioned to define how they protect their borders, but they must abide by the eu law and respect fundamental rights. we also need to do better on returns and have a common european approach for faster and dignified returns. the european council calls on member states to apply the mutual recognition of returns decisions. a return decision taken by one member state must be valid in all member states. as of next month, the schengen information system enters into operation and it will be a key tool for this purpose. we welcome that leaders support the need for making full use of the safe country concept, aiming in the future at common european lists. secondary movements are a legitimate concern in some member states. we must address this issue and reduce the incentives for such movement. we will work with member states to ensure that they fully implement the dublin roadmap and at the same time better implement the voluntary solidarity mechanism while waiting for a permanent mechanism through the pact. finally, we will not manage migration properly without increased partnership with the countries of origin and transit. we need a win—win cooperation on migration that covers all aspects of our relationship, cooperation to fight smuggling, enhancing returns and readmission of irregular migrants, but also working together on ambitious legal pathways to set up talent partnerships, boosting international mobility and the development of skills in a mutually beneficial way. in the central mediterranean, we are ready to strengthen border management and search and rescue capacities in libya, tunisia and egypt, working in close cooperation with the unhcr and the iom. for such a multidimensional phenomenon, we need a whole of government approach and a single voice to speak for the eu. the commission will continue to support putting these operational key actions into practice and to support the co-legislators’ work on the swift negotiations on the pact. i now look forward to your interventions.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, it was about time that the european council put migration on its agenda. 70 % of europeans are concerned about migration, and the epp has been warning for months now that we are sleepwalking into a new crisis, with the numbers being the highest since 2016, so it’s good that everybody seems to have finally woken up. let me welcome the unity that the european council showed. political leaders from our party, from the liberals, from the socialists, from the conservatives all agreed that this is a european challenge that needs to be addressed at the european level, and that more efforts are needed to adopt the pact, to properly protect our external borders and to pay full attention to the external dimension of migration. all 27 leaders agreed on this, so i hope we can also mirror that same spirit here today. i want to make two concrete points. first, our external borders need to be strengthened. this was our main ep call for months, and we welcome the council’s call on the commission to immediately mobilise substantial eu funding to support member states in reinforcing border protection capabilities and infrastructure. i also welcome the immediate follow—up on this call by the commission, and i look forward to seeing the concrete results on the ground as soon as possible. we need to have control of our external borders, and since these are our common european borders, their protection must also be a common european effort. i am glad that all leaders, from north to south and from left to right, have put their support behind this. secondly, the pact on migration needs to be adopted. progress is being made, but both the council and parliament need to step it up a notch. in this house, we truly need to work in a spirit of compromise between all the constructive parties on all the files. i want to be very clear on this – we either have a real compromise on everything, including screening, for instance, or on nothing at all.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. immigration, as old as humanity, is one of the greatest challenges. we will never forget the arrival of one million syrians fleeing death in 2015. nor is it the four million ukrainians whom we have welcomed because of putin's war, nor the many immigrants who risk their lives every day crossing the mediterranean and the balkans. we need to protect our borders. but as long as forgotten wars, the exploitation of the poor and natural disasters are a reality, walls as high as these can never be built to hold back the weakest. there are already over a hundred million human beings in the world who have been forced to leave their homes. many of them are in europe and there will be many more. at a time when the negotiation of the new pact on migration and asylum is facing its decisive hour, we must choose what europe we want to live in. in the europe of the walls that mr weber and the extreme right advocate, or in the humanist europe that does not close its eyes to the loss of human life? in a xenophobic europe that is targeting immigrants or in a europe of law that wants immigrants to develop our societies and cultures? in the europe of fear of the different or in the europe of hope working towards a solution? there are no easy answers for complex times, but it will not be walls that improve our coexistence, but the joining of our forces to manage the arrival of immigrants according to the possibilities of each state and respect for the law. now that the far right is accusing mr weber of copying its model of europe against immigration, in the social democratic family we turn our gaze to that other soul of the people's party which is indeed ready to welcome, protect and integrate. walls and nationalisms are driving us to devastating consequences. let's get over the fear of being different. let us make europe a meeting place for diverse peoples, a land of peace, progress and opportunity, protecting first and foremost the life of every man and woman. because europe's future will only be prosperous if we reconcile with the most vulnerable. no european money to build walls.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, colleagues, i think before we are going into the substance of the matter, let’s just remind ourselves briefly of the official role of the european council as defined by the treaties. it is neither a legislator nor a budget authority, and giving instructions to the european commission constitutes nothing less than a grave violation of the treaties. just saying. meanwhile, all the populist rhetoric of government leaders cannot hide the fact they themselves have been blocking a common policy for seven years, and walls are not the answer to their failure. if the graveyards in the mediterranean, the quasi concentration camps in libya, the horrors of moria and the forests on the polish-belarusian border have not deterred migrants, then walls will not stop them either. walls are a fake solution, even if the word walls is neatly wrapped up in euphemism and bureaucracies. on the basis of the roadmap, parliament and the council – the legislator – have been diligently and constructively working on the completion of a coherent and effective asylum and migration policy. we will deliver real results for citizens: realistic policies that allow us to handle migration in an effective manner and also in line with our much-proclaimed values. the great achievement of european integration is that it has broken down walls. let’s not turn europe into a gated community.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, minister roswall, commissioner, today we are debating the need for the speedy finalisation of the roadmap. another headline could have been the ‘open borders’ left being desperate to approve the eu asylum and migration pact before next year’s election. they fear the adoption of the pact, with its forced solidarity and the permanent power it transfers to brussels, is in jeopardy. commissioner, the eu’s own proposed pact would transfer power to foreign politicians and far away bureaucrats over who settles and lives in our countries. now we hear that the epp is finally ready to get tough on border control, on increasing returns, on preventing illegal – excuse me, irregular – migration. but a few dear epp colleagues, including my friends from the moderates in sweden, if you really had your ‘road to damascus moment’ on migration, then why are you rushing to approve the pact now, before the ep elections? why ally with socialists, greens, liberals and the left on migration against your citizens, progressive support, enabling pull factors and hampering border controls? i mean, today we can hear how the left, the progressives, how they equal border control with fortress europe. it’s very evident the direction such a compromise would take, and the redistribution of migrants that the progressives are fighting for would create a new pull factor, further increasing migratory pressure on europe, not reducing it. voters do not want to hold hostage border control measures, and their own personal security, until member states cave on enforced solidarity. but that’s exactly what you get when you work with the left on migration. by clinging to asylum dogma from a bygone era, the pact ensures that migrants will continue to die en route to europe, that human trafficking gangs will continue to profit, and that segregation spreads across europe. instead, the way forward is to secure the border and throw forced solidarity in the dustbin of history!
madam president, dear colleagues, the latest european council conclusions reflect an important development in the field of migration. finally, the need for strong border protection has been acknowledged. to quote a classic: ‘welcome to the real world.’ when all this began in 2015, there was only one european leader who was on the right track. while everybody was talking about quotas and redistribution, he was talking about stronger border control and built a fence. his name is viktor orbán. time has proven him right, while most others were either wrong or not brave enough perhaps to say what they really thought. in that context, it’s refreshing now to see the epp and manfred weber finally follow the path of the hungarian prime minister. you’re eight years late, but better late than never. hungary has been protecting the eu external border for eight years. we have spent over eur 1.7 billion on that effort, and still the european commission has not contributed a penny to the costs of the border wall. we are protecting the entire european union. we demand a significant contribution by the commission to those costs. it’s time to pay the bills.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we're at a crossroads now. either we continue with the policy of people dying in the mediterranean, where we see a great many people coming to europe without any reason for seeking asylum, where we see a few member states bearing the heavy responsibility. or we can choose a path where we realise that we have more of a common european migration policy. i am absolutely convinced that we here in the european parliament, but also in the council, can rally around a policy which means that we have control over our external borders. that we ensure that people who have reasons for asylum are protected in europe. but that people who don't have asylum grounds also have to leave. and that we need to work with third countries to make this policy work. this is an opportunity that is before us now. for seven years the european parliament has been calling for the changes that are now needed. now we're heading back into the crisis we had last time in 2016. it no longer works to think that national policy can solve this. we are part of a common union and share common borders. now is the time to adopt the migration pact and ensure that we can start trialogue negotiations.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the dream of the far right of a europe surrounded by walls and barbed wire fencing is about to become a reality. the hundreds of millions of euros spent on preventing people from getting to the eu will not stop poverty, war and natural disasters. anyone who thinks about it knows that. all the eu's prime ministers and governments know this. they also know that it will only make people more desperate and take greater risks. the winners are the security and defence industries. the losers are people who are running for their lives. walls and fences don't solve the big problems. we're gonna have to do better than this. we can do better than this.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the commission, the minister! we are in a time of transition. leaving fossil fuels behind is not only crucial to saving the climate. it's also a matter of safety. our dependence on oil and the dependence of many european countries on gas have trapped us in an unhealthy and dangerous dependence on russia and a series of oil dictatorships. i am a liberal and a technology optimist, but i also recognize that digitalization and electrification are increasing our dependence on critical raw materials and we risk becoming even more dependent on china. that's why we need to get better at recycling. but it will be, for example, until the turn of the century before recycling can account for even half the amount of rare earths that we expect europe and the world to need by then. that's why we need alternatives. we must use the resources available within the eu. they are in the nordic countries, they are in sweden, they are in norway and we must deepen trade relations with other democracies.
madam president, the most difficult part of being a politician is not to have good intentions, but to make difficult choices. many important goals are in conflict with each other, and then we as legislators must have the courage to choose. this is a truth not only when it comes to critical raw materials, but perhaps it is especially worth reflecting on when we discuss this particular issue. europe now needs to choose strategic autonomy and access to critical raw materials. we must admit that this is more important than other things and, yes, it is more important than natura 2000 or the interest of a single indigenous sami village or the suggested nature restoration law. for the eu to pull off electrification to reach its green goals and reduce dependency on others, especially china, the secondary use of critical raw materials will not be enough. the green deal dream that the whole economy can consist only of recycling must end now. we need to get critical raw materials from primary sources within europe, from places such as the mines in kiruna, in northern sweden. if we are serious about this, that also means that we need to review how other regulations will affect our ability to make this happen. i think it is time to set our priorities right!
madam president, i would like to thank you. when we discuss these issues, we of course come to the mines and we know that mining poses challenges to nature and to local communities. i am thinking in particular of northern sweden, northern finland and the sami, the last indigenous people of europe. where it literally becomes an existential threat to the reindeer, the reindeer industry that is so central to their culture. sweden is criticized year after year by the un for not listening to the sami when new mines are opened. so if the eu is to have any credibility in these matters, we really have to take the rights of the sami into account and discuss them. and this, of course, applies to indigenous peoples around the world. many of them are convinced that we humans cannot own land or waterways or that companies cannot own land or waterways because it belongs to us all and everything. i believe that we could learn a great deal from them, not least in respecting nature.
madam president, i would like to thank you. distinguished members, commissioner, minister of state! the engine of climate change is the green technologies that are now being developed in europe, and not least in northern sweden. the critical raw materials must never become a bottleneck in this. we must increase europe's self-sufficiency in the strategic, critical raw materials and we must form strategic alliances with trustworthy nations. we need to set an example in effective permitting processes and consultation processes with local communities. we must set an example in our external environment and in our internal working environment. we must also set an example of long-term sustainable development for local communities. if we do, europe will be able to continue to lead and drive the climate change that the world so desperately needs.
mr president ! commission, colleagues and audience! this debate is dedicated to all the people who are imprisoned, who are tortured in belarus because of their dreams of freedom. we are thinking in particular of the nobel prize winner ales bialiatski. there should be a special place in hell for leaders who pander to dictatorships, whether it's hungarian ministers or the olympic committee, who think it's a good idea to open up to russian and belarusian athletes in paris, while outspoken elite athletes, even olympic medalists, are among the group deemed so dangerous to the regime in minsk that they are sentenced to long prison terms in absentia. after a lot of hard work, especially in this parliament, we beat lukashenko at the world cup. now it's time to act again. as long as belarus is imprisoning and torturing people, innocent athletes, for what they think and what they say, belarus should be disqualified from fighting for medals. zyvie belarus. this is a very important matter.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! today we're discussing fertilizer and this is really not a shit question. it's about the transition. and we know how many farmers in the eu want to be at the forefront of the transition. we're getting a lot of interest in organic farming, regenerative, permaculture, looking at other plant life, not least to get nitrogen-fixing legumes in. and of course, in this transition, traditional natural fertilizer is also going to be a very important part. but this text that is proposed keeps us in the old way. it's not conducive to conversion. it keeps us stuck in a dependency on fertilisers, fossil fuels and, of course, a huge climate impact. we have to vote no to this, quite simply. shit belongs on our fields, but not in the legislative work.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the commission! yes, russia's invasion of ukraine has dealt a severe blow to both european and global food security. we see this in europe's heavy dependence on fossil fuels and fertilisers from russia. i therefore welcome the commission's strong measures to strengthen agriculture and safeguard food production. we need to act long-term and quickly on the transition to sustainable and fossil-free agriculture. i come from a farming village myself. i know how important it is that we embrace green solutions. the residues, for example from biogas production, are a good and excellent alternative to imported fertilisers. and the fertiliser we still have to use has to be circular, climate neutral and european. and new projects for fossil-free fertiliser production must be given the conditions to succeed. it's the only way we can resist our dependence on russia. and we need to be united again on fertiliser.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, dear madam o’reilly, thank you for all your interventions this evening. the right to good administration enshrined in the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights is of key importance. transparent, accessible and efficient eu institutions based on the principles of non—discrimination, impartiality, objectivity and fairness are a prerequisite for providing citizens, businesses and associations with an administration that duly reflects their demands and needs. the work of the european ombudsman plays an essential role in ensuring we can meet their expectations. the report and resolution of the european parliament on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2021 contributes to this by highlighting the areas where our institutions do well, and where they can improve. as already mentioned in my introductory remarks, the commission will now assess in detail the issues raised in your resolution and during today’s debate and will respond in the next few weeks.
emily o'reilly, that was a lot of praise, a lot of support from the members here in the debates.
european ombudsman. – thank you very much, madam president, and thank you all for your contributions. it’s particularly heartening this year to know that there is such cross-party support, cross-group support for the report, and i thank madam pelletier, the co-rapporteurs and the peti committee itself for that. i just want to reflect on one thing that a number of people alluded to, and that was in relation to somebody talked about the fact that sometimes recommendations are not accepted, somebody else talked about just the nature of the ombudsman and so on. and one question i’m often asked is, do i want more powers? do i want binding powers? and i’ve always said no. while it would be tempting to think that i could just bang my fist on the table and have everybody do everything, that’s not what the point of an ombudsman is. the ombudsman works in the area of soft law and the extent to which an ombudsman’s rulings and recommendations are respected, acknowledged and implemented is actually a measure of the quality of an administration. because i believe that if an ombudsman is doing his or her work independently, honestly, effectively and so on, the vast majority if not all recommendations should be accepted. we do have a high rate in the european parliament or, sorry, in the european administration, which is generally over 80 %. but to my view, it should be closer to 100 %. sometimes the reason that i am given for the non-implementation of a recommendation is not because i’ve made a mistake, my colleagues have made a mistake or we’ve got the wrong end of the stick, but simply because an institution simply doesn’t want to do something. and sometimes there is an element of impunity there – they feel that they can get away with it. but i continue to trust in the administration, i continue to trust in the power of soft law, because the day that an ombudsman is granted hard powers is the day that the administration will have failed. transparency, as ever, has been a major piece and sometimes transparency is seen as an abstract thing but it isn’t. it is very, very concrete thing. it is the way that administrations are made accountable to the citizens and administration is there to protect the citizens. and the citizens have a right to take part in the democratic life of the union, as i alluded to earlier, and they can only do that if they know what’s going on in the first place. another mep talked about the fact that i will have succeeded if the text messages, which have been talked about a lot, are released, but i don’t think i will have succeeded, i think the commission will have succeeded if there is greater transparency in relation to that. we’ve talked about the moral force that the eu should be, and i firmly believe in that. and if i do my piece ethically, well, independently, then it’s on the administration to do its piece. i can’t force things through. but it is the administration itself that has to look into its own soul – if you forgive the use of that phrase – and decide what it should do. somebody else talked about why an ombudsman exists, because we have the courts and so on. i mean, i always feel very strongly that an ombudsman exists there to really give justice in the very wider sense, to be there to listen to people when they have been through, you know, big bureaucratic headaches and frustration and stress and trying to get there their issue dealt with. and i constantly say to my colleagues that we need always to listen. we have to be that listening ear because stress is relieved when people feel that they have been heard. and we all know this with our own interactions with telephone services or whatever it is. but i believe an ombudsman is there at the sometimes at the end of the line to be that that human face and to hear and to listen and to try and give justice. but i can only do so much. the administration has to absolutely step up to the plate as well and i believe that, you know, qatargate, as i said to my colleagues, was an opportunity to re-examine these issues that i’ve been talking about, my predecessors have been talking about, for many years. and i think what happened there and other things that have happened have shown just how important those things are. they matter. they have a real value in the real world. and they’re not just abstract concepts to be to be spoken about in an academic way. so again, i thank madam pelletier, i thank the peti committee and i thank the parliament for the support because an ombudsman really survives only with the support of the parliament. and i thank you for that.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 14 march 2023.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the outcome of the negotiations on the package fit for 55, namely the report by jessica polfjärd, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) 2018/842 setting binding national annual greenhouse gas emission reduction targets for the period 2021 to 2030 as a contribution to climate action to meet the commitments under the paris agreement (com (2021) 0555 c9-0321/2021 - 2021/0200(cod)) and the follow-up report by ville niinistö, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) 2018/842 on binding national annual greenhouse gas emission reduction targets for the period 2021 to 2030 as a contribution to climate action to meet the commitments under the paris agreement (com (2021) 0555 c9-0321/02 (com (2021) 0459 final)) and the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council (eu) amending regulation (eu) 2018/2021 (com (2021/021) 04521) c01) and regulation (eu) no 20920/c) no 209 and regulation (eu) no 20352 regarding the common system of the european parliament and the council on the quantities of agricultural products used in the food chain for the production of cereals, for the purposes of regulation (eu) (com (202021/2015/2015/028) 014/02 and the common organisation for the european parliament and the establishment of the common agricultural guarantee) regulation (com (2020) no 34
the rapporteur. president. - the debate is closed. mr. first vice president, i would like to thank you for your service. my colleagues! when we last debated the eu's national climate targets in this house, i said that it was time to get serious about climate policy. this week, that's exactly what we're doing. by adopting several new climate laws, we in europe are showing that we can not only set high targets, but that we can also agree on action plans to reach them. for the first time ever, we have built a strong majority for all eu member states to have binding targets to actually reduce their emissions. it's something i think we should be proud of. it nurtures and manages the trust that is at the very heart of responsible politics. the responsibility sharing regulation is one of the cornerstones of our joint climate action. with this law, we are setting binding targets for all eu member states and a set of rules for the majority of all emissions in europe. increasing the pace of our work in this area is absolutely necessary not only to achieve our own climate goals but also our commitments under the paris agreement. few pieces of information can be as important to us as decision makers. it also entails a great responsibility to design the rules in a way that wins broad support and trust. that is why my line has been clear in the preparation of this proposal: we need a policy framework that raises the ambitions of the eu as a whole, while respecting the traditions of the member states and creating the right conditions for the transformation of society as a whole. after more than a year and a half of work, that is exactly what we have achieved. what we have on the table now is a proposal that is ambitious, forward-looking and feasible. together we have agreed on a number of important principles. first, we are raising the ambition for europe as a whole in line with the european climate law. when my colleague peter liese negotiated that law, his main message was that it needed to be based on objectives that could actually be achieved. now we're gonna prove that line was right. secondly, we are making sure that all the eu member states have to contribute to the work. no country can afford to skimp on the commitments of others. thirdly, we have ensured that member states are able to formulate their objectives in the way that suits them best. all countries and all sectors must contribute to climate action but the eu's role is to set clear frameworks, not to regulate in detail. fourth, we are looking beyond 2030. for me, it has been crucial to link these objectives with the major objective of climate neutrality, and we have now outlined and shown concrete steps to be taken by member states. last but not least, we have introduced stricter compliance requirements. above all, we want to see more transparency, while at the same time demanding that those member states which miss their targets also have to explain why they are deviating and how they intend to remedy it in the future. i would like to thank my colleagues from the other political groups for their good cooperation on this matter: bas eickhout, javi lópez, linea søgaard-lidell, who opened the negotiations which were then taken over by nils torvalds, margrete auken, silvia sardone and anna zalewska and silvia modig. i would also like to thank the czech presidency, ambassador jaroslav zajíček and his colleagues for the enormous work they have put in and for the successes we have been able to achieve together. last but not least, i would also like to thank vice-president timmermans and the whole team at dg clima for the good cooperation. i am convinced that we have come a long way and that we can make this journey together. it is now up to the member states to deliver and to show the will.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! soon, fit for 55 will be real. i hope everyone today understands that the market stability reserve is very large and important for the climate. it is a key factor in ensuring that the eu emissions trading system ets functions as it was originally intended to. as we all know, there have been problems with the eu's emissions trading with the large surplus we got on emissions allowances after the financial crisis. prices became low, and there were weak signals to industry to reduce carbon emissions. but with the market stability reserve, ets prices are now sending the right signals to industry to actually reduce their emissions. that is why i think it is important on a day like today to express our thanks to our negotiators. this applies not only to this part of the market stability reserve, but also to the other important issues which are now moving our positions forward and which allow us in each member state to really take up the fight to cope with climate change in a way that we can promise our children and grandchildren and future generations that at least in this parliament, in our eu, in our union, we are taking responsibility for climate change and leaving a planet and an environment to future generations. thank you so much! i would like to call for broad support for the proposal when it is decided here in parliament. it is critical and crucial that we have broad support in our parliament for climate change. now the fit for 55 journey can begin in earnest!
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is both fascinating and quite frightening, i think, to listen to this debate. there are so many people in this house who seem to be happy and satisfied and who seem to think that what we have achieved is enough when we are so far from what the science says is necessary to be in line with the paris agreement. and that in turn makes us even more dependent on negative emissions, on storing carbon in forests and soils. but what happens then? the right wing, in particular, both here in parliament and in the council, is also opposed to these ambitions. the swedish government in particular has done everything in its power during this period to reduce its ambitions to store more carbon in forests and land. it is not only a really bad climate policy, but it is also unfortunately another sign, a proof, that sweden is no longer a leader in climate and environmental issues. i find that very sad.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, very briefly, first of all i need to stress that those who say ‘slow down to save our economy, slow down to save our jobs’ – i think they are wrong. if we want to save our jobs, if we want to save our economy, we actually should be speeding up. look at what’s happening globally. some say, ‘well, look at china – 30% of the emissions, still increasing the emissions’. there’s also another way you could look at china: half of the cars sold in china now are already electric cars. their investment in renewables is beyond our wildest imagination. their transition to renewable energy will be very fast. look at the inflation reduction act in the united states: this will have a huge impact on the transition to a renewable economy. honourable members, we just don’t have the luxury of slowing down. if we really want jobs that are sustainable jobs, future-oriented jobs, if we want our economy to be competitive in the future, this transition needs to happen and it needs to happen now. and i salute the european parliament, its majority, in seeing the necessity of this and voting on these three proposals tomorrow. my second point is this: our approach is not an ideological approach. i fear that closing your eyes to science is the ideological approach. let scientists inform us. let science guide us. that’s how we should use rational thought in this, not ideology. and the science is crystal clear. i would say the science is also crystal clear on what’s happening in our sinks. and by monitoring what is happening, we can find solutions. if the european commission monitors – and i respect finnish colleagues and swedish colleagues saying ‘what do you know as a dutchman about forests? you know every individual tree in the netherlands by name’, and i respect that – but then at least listen to your own scientists. let them guide you and let us help you in taking the right decisions. this is my plea. member states themselves decide, but let the decision be a rational one based on science. and finally, some of you made remarks about cars. and, here, let me also take away a misunderstanding. our legislation says there should be no emissions at the tailpipe in 2035. that’s what was agreed between the co-legislators. in my view, that’s technological neutrality. if you can make something that creates propulsion without emissions, you can make the choice yourself. so if in germany they’re always talking about ‘verbrenner-aus’ and all of that, we’re saying ‘no emissions at the tailpipe’, and whatever you can find to have no emissions at the tailpipe is in line with the legislation. also here, let science and economic logic dictate the choices we need to make.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you for participating in the debate. i think there's been a pretty broad consensus on how we can actually work together. if we want something, we've also been able to show that we can make it happen. the way forward is not a straightforward one, as many have testified in this debate. there are parts of it that you wish they were more far-reaching and parts that you wish you saw less of. at the same time, this is what we have agreed and compromised on in order to achieve a result. as rapporteur, i understand that it is possible to age rather quickly during a negotiation, but we are pleased to have a result on which we are going to vote tomorrow. but never use russia's illegal annexation of ukraine as an excuse to lower the ambitions of this house. the day putin gets to put the agenda in a democratically elected assembly, yes, we've lost. there is no excuse for lowering our ambitions. instead, we must increase the possibilities for democratic work in order to reach and achieve a consensus that will last over time. i hope that we can adopt this bill tomorrow, where we have objectives, where we have legislation, to achieve the objectives that we have all agreed on.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the moderates promised rigorous checks. the social democrat eu minister described the corona fund's contribution as 'well-targeted support'. the sd's warnings that they risked laundering 150 swedish tax dollars were taken lightly. no, the corona fund was supposed to boost the economy, stop the climate crisis and speed up digitalization. money would go only to carefully specified and scrutinized national plans. the commission and the member states were of course given promises of being able to influence it, so that it would not be wrong. but it was wrong, mr. speaker. the eu's auditors are now sounding the alarm that a significant part of the aid may have been misused due to lack of control and follow-up, delayed projects, lack of transparency, 'hit-and-run reforms' and investments that have so much to do with economic recovery. or how about more efficient heating of the belgian king's palace? mr president, i would like to thank you. i think a lot of people here are hoping that the voters will forget who pushed through the corona fund, but they won't.
mr president, colleagues, history will judge us not based on our thoughts, but merely on our actions. the israeli democracy is right now at stake, it is in danger. and the international community, this includes the eu, has an obligation to act in defence of the people. democracy, rule of law and human rights are not up for negotiation. it is about respect for international law. so to the colleague that was speaking previously, we need to, together, ensure the respect for international law. in the biggest demonstration in israeli history, over half a million citizens have taken to the streets to protest against the extreme right wing government and their attempt to throw the country into an authoritarian one. the judicial reforms and the government illiberal policies are perpetrated against the israeli people as well as the palestinian people. it is used as a tool to expand settlements and annex the west bank. for years already, the eu has demanded a stop to and compensation for israeli demolition and confiscation of eu-funded structures and projects. for decades, the eu has demanded an end to the occupation and of the expansion of illegal settlements in palestine. enough already! my question to the high representative and vice-president josep borrell is what appropriate measures will the commission take?
mr president, i am known to be a friend of israel, but in this context, i would like to highlight this: true friends are honest with each other, and true friends can also discuss uncomfortable issues. and while i stand by israel, the middle east's only democracy, and its indisputable right to defend its territory and people, i do have an uncomfortable issue to address. the draft legislation on the planned judicial reform is worrisome. we don't know how the final reform will look, and that is important to keep in mind. only a draft has been presented so far and at this stage, israel's democratic allies, among them the us, have expressed concerns, but more importantly, many, many, many, many israelis have expressed their discontent. and as israel is a genuine democracy, people are by all means allowed to protest and enjoy the rights to freedom of expression and opinion. the regional comparison is noteworthy. israel is the only liberal democracy in the middle east. israel is the only country where people are allowed to protest and express dissenting opinions, as the israelis are doing right now. so i do hope that the government of israel will listen to the concerns of their transatlantic democratic friends. but i know for a fact that the government of israel are listening to their people, as in all genuine democracies. i look forward to continuing and deepening the relations between the eu and israel, including by discussing uncomfortable issues like this one, because that's what friends do.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, firstly, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent report which clearly distinguishes between aggressor and victim. azerbaijan’s hostile acts continue unabated. the reopening of the lachin corridor, blockaded by so-called environmental activists from azerbaijan, is paramount. baku insists that ‘the legitimate demands of the representative of the azerbaijani civil society should be heard and fulfilled.’ colleagues, don’t be fooled. there is no thing as a civil society independent from the state in an authoritarian dictatorship. in light of the russia-led csto abandonment of armenia, i welcome armenia’s commitment to cepa as well as the eu civilian mission. colleagues, i stand with justice and peace. i stand with armenia.
madam president, i would like to thank you. a planned economic utopia is how the recast of the energy performance of buildings directive can be summed up. the aim is to make all buildings emission-free. it's lovely, but unrealistic. trying to make over 30 million buildings energy efficient in the short timeframe set out in the directive will be expensive. the commission proposal's price tag: €275 billion a year. the european parliament's proposal would cost close to €400 billion a year. the ets is far from perfect, but owners can decide for themselves whether they want to save money by replacing heating systems or insulating. the eu clearly has no confidence in the market, and the solution is always to centrally manage and regulate in detail. instead of forced renovations and even more tax money being funneled to southern and eastern europe, the matter should be left to the market, the member states and homeowners. they know better than the bureaucrats in brussels.
madam president, i would like to thank you. centralist environmental populism that's what this proposal is about. we swedish democrats cannot support that. that is why we voted against the lulucf directive on land use and forestry. the eu treaties do not mention forests. the directive therefore infringes the principle of conferral of powers and the principle of subsidiarity. a growing forest is sequestering carbon dioxide. the eu is therefore trying to manage this area in detail, too, with reference to climate. to offset the emissions of other countries, the union wants to use swedish forests to increase carbon dioxide storage. if it does not increase by 2030, sweden is threatened with heavy fines. our forest industry will bear the cost so that other countries do not have to take action. this eu decision will cost forestry and farming jobs in rural areas. the sweden democrats are the only party that fights against this development wholeheartedly.
madam president, i would like to thank you. millions of households are struggling with inflation and high utility bills. at the same time, the commission is calling for further binding annual reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. sweden will be hit harder than other countries. we have already reduced our emissions substantially, and all the cheap measures have already been implemented. therefore, it will be more expensive for us to achieve these new goals. road transport, heating of buildings, agriculture, small industrial plants and waste management will all be burdened with their own emission targets. we do not yet know the price tag for sweden's climate targets, but the tug of war over the reduction obligation shows that a reduction in fuel tax could cost up to sek 40 billion. someone has to say it. the eu is evolving into a centrally planned economy. effective environmental and climate policy must be based on free choice, technological development and member states' own ability to decide how much and how best to contribute. the regulation will result in higher inflation, higher electricity prices with little climate benefit. that's why we swedish democrats voted no.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission and the council! one in three women in the eu has no job of her own and no income of her own, that is to say, one in three women. among women in employment, this is most often the case in parttime or precarious employment. so when we talk about the competitive economy of tomorrow and more jobs, we have to make sure that women are also part of this. women's skills are needed, especially in the climate situation. let me be clear. women's participation in the labour market is central to growth in the eu. we must be a union where both women and men go to work, where they have a wage to live on and where family and work can be combined. when women in our union work, both individual freedom and national gdp are strengthened. it's a question of our core values, of power and influence in society. it is also about the fact that it is a tool, a key, to eradicate child poverty and a prerequisite for women to leave an abusive partner. the competitive economy of tomorrow should benefit everyone, but that means that everyone must also be part of it. the full participation of women in the labour market is crucial to meeting the challenges facing our union. actually, we're writing 2023. it should be obvious then. we just recently demonstrated on international women's day. let us take responsibility and ensure that we have a level playing field in the labour market. it is to the benefit of everyone in our european union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is a european failure that we are standing here today, once again, 20 years ago, watching people die in the mediterranean in their search for security and a better future. it is a european failure. today, however, i would like to turn to giorgia meloni, who said during her election campaign that her christian heart and her parental heart were on fire for italy and italian values. the question is, will any refugee children fit into this parental heart of giorgia meloni, when she passes legislation that punishes boats and volunteers who help people out at sea in need? no, it doesn't seem like her heart hears those cries. ten years ago, when the lampedusa disaster happened, when the little body of alan kurdi washed up on the beaches where we take our children to create childhood memories, we said: never again! the images of alan kurdi's body were seen on every mobile phone in europe. we said, never again! today we are here again, and i'm going to name a few: ibrahim salim, three years old, halil munir abdulrezzak, three years old, madina hussini, six years old, alan kurdi, again, two years old, but in a different form. many thousands die. it is a european shame that we are standing here and people are still dying.
mr president, i would like to thank you. once again, for the fifth time, we are debating tragic deaths at sea between africa and europe. but the truth must be told. boat migrants will continue to die as long as the eu rewards illegal migration with livelihoods and welfare. the migrants are often from bangladesh, whose population has grown by more than 40 million in the last 20 years, or from pakistan, which has increased by 80 million in the same period. how are your legal routes going to cope with the migration pressure that's built on that population growth? face the facts. follow australia's lead by moving the asylum process to a third country, rejecting all migrant boats and ending the rewarding of illegal migration with asylum and welfare. you're saying no to the only thing that's stopped death at sea. more legal routes won't do that, and then boat migrants will continue to die. all that remains are open borders and a europe that will soon be unrecognizable. be honest, is that really what you stand for?
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, minister, what is it? criminal networks and organised crime are present and active in several member states simultaneously across europe. this threatens the safety of the people. europol now points out that organised crime has never posed such a threat to people's safety as it does now. in sweden, unfortunately, we are very familiar with this. we have a big problem. we now have a new, moderate-led government that is completely overhauling our criminal policy. we have a swedish presidency which is now finally giving priority to these issues as well. however, i would like to say to the swedish presidency and to the commission on behalf of the epp group: all the measures and initiatives now being discussed are good and welcome, but more will need to be done. we need to strengthen europol. we need to make europol more operational. we need to confiscate the assets of the criminals. we must be more effective in stopping the smuggling of arms and drugs into our union. we need to gain control of our outer border. if we do this and continue to take initiatives, we can once again make both sweden and europe safer.
blue-card speech. – i would like to ask a question that concerns izabela, who died last summer in poland. let’s talk about who is defending who. what would you say to the family of izabela who lost her life? she knew that the child that she was carrying would not make it. but even if they all knew, there in the healthcare system, that the child that she was caring would not make it, they were not allowed to give her the access to abortion, which led to her being deprived of her life. so my question is, what’s your message to her, her family and all those going through the same violations, and to all those who are not having access to what should be a fundamental right – abortion and the right to their own body?
blue-card speech. – my question concerns izabela, who was deprived of her life last summer in poland because of no access to abortion. she was pregnant, but everybody in the healthcare system knew that the child that she was carrying would not make it. but even if they knew that, the legislation in poland didn’t allow them to help her, didn’t allow them to save her life. my question is to you, as talking so harshly against the women’s right to our own bodies, what’s your message to the family of izabela and all those women in poland that are being deprived of what should be a human right – the right to their own body?
madam president, i would like to thank you. the commission and the council! imagine seeking treatment and being denied. imagine not being able to make decisions about your own body. imagine that you are helping a fellow human being with advice and support that they are actually entitled to but you risk imprisonment. it is a brutal reality in many places around the world, including in our union, most recently in poland. we who participated together in the un commission on women last week all received the same message, regardless of who we spoke to. it was the un, it was civil society, it was human rights activists -- they all said the same thing: we need to strengthen sexual and reproductive health and rights. the eu can and must do more. we cannot allow people in power to restrict the basic rights of women and girls. i think our message and our message is clear here in tonight's debate: all girls and women should have human rights.
madam president, colleagues, banning abortion is not saving anyone, as the ultra-conservatives here in parliament are claiming. it is rather depriving women and girls their lives. sexual reproductive health and rights are an essential part of ensuring women’s emancipation. women are literally dying because of lack of access to sexual reproductive health and rights right now, even in our own union. imagine you are fleeing a war, being a victim of rape also, coming to a country that claims that they will help you and there not having access to abortion after being raped. this is the reality that ukrainian women are facing in poland. women are once again literally dying in our own union. those brave women, however, that every day dedicate their life to fight for these essential rights are subjected to threats, harassment, violence and stigma. also, once again, in our own union: poland yesterday. we must politically, legislative-wise and economically support human rights defenders working on srhr. let’s ensure all women and girls have the right to their own bodies. let’s defend human rights defenders. my body, my choice. it’s not harder than that.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, without human rights defenders, there are no human rights. that’s why it’s so crucial that we follow up the implementation of the guidelines for the european external action service. human rights defenders are harassed, detained, tortured and killed all around the world, only because they stand up for the most basic values on this planet. today’s global decline of democracy and freedom and the rebound of gender equality makes it even more difficult and dangerous for activists and organisations to work. this makes the eu’s role as guardian of human rights defenders more urgent and important than ever. the implementation must make a difference in practice.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. for 14 years, the eu has had the chance to make discrimination illegal throughout the eu. for 14 years, they've chosen not to. the citizens of the eu deserve better than this. gay people, who are denied hotel rooms, deserve better. the girl in the hijab, who gets kicked out of a coffee shop, deserves better. the woman in the wheelchair, who is not getting the care she's entitled to, deserves better. the 14 years that have passed since the proposal was presented show that the eu accepts that we have first and second class citizens. some of us can enjoy the rights and protections of the law and some of us can't. the council is the main party responsible for this division. they are the ones who have ruled and who are now ruling the eu member states. the swedish presidency has finally put this matter on its agenda, and the spanish presidency has promised me that it will do so. so my question to the council is: what's the timetable? when do we make discrimination illegal throughout the eu?
author. – mr president, dear colleagues, thousands, thousands of school girls in iran have been poisoned, many of whom have been hospitalised. and we don’t know for sure who is behind the attacks or what the purpose of them is. but what we do know for sure is that girls have been hurt, that girls have been prevented from attending their education, and that this has hindered both young girls and their parents from participating in the protests against the regime. and if the regime is not behind the poisoning attacks, it has nevertheless failed to act on numerous credible reports of systematic, toxic attacks in schools across iran. either way, these attacks are a sign of weakness of the regime. strong leaders would never attack nor accept attacks on their own children. the resolution that parliament is to adopt tomorrow recalls that the islamic republic bears full responsibility for iranian women and girls’ fundamental right to education and to safety. needless to say, depriving girls of education has a devastating impact on their future as they become more vulnerable to poverty, forced marriages, domestic violence and sex trafficking. and why? why have these girls been poisoned and kept from school? it looks like the poisoning attacks on school girls are revenge for the role young women played in recent protests against the regime and against the mandatory veiling. when girls speak up and demand the basic human rights that every single person is entitled to, they are punished with violence even in their own classroom. the poisoning of school girls in iran is pure evil, and the regime of the islamic republic of iran is pure evil. so the most important task for us, dear colleagues, is to reiterate our steadfast support for the aspirations of the iranian people who want to live in a free, democratic country. the european parliament stands with the women and girls in iran, and i stand with you, the change-makers of iran.
author. – mr president, into this debate i am taking the words of the nobel peace prize winner, shirin ebadi, who was with us today. speak to your respective foreign affairs minister on how to listen to the people in iran. i would have loved to do that but, unfortunately, the swedish presidency, so to say, the swedish government just left. i therefore want, however, to turn to the swedish government through, i guess, they are listening to me wherever they are, but i’m going to do it in swedish. både kvinnor och skolflickor i iran är modiga. med risk för sina liv har de tagit sig ut inte bara på gator och torg utan även i skolor. ropen fortsätter att skalla: ”kvinna! liv! frihet! zan! zendegi! azadi! jin! jiyan! azadî!” som följd av detta förgiftades hundratals skolflickor. den straffrihet som förövarna bakom dessa brutala attacker åtnjuter är oacceptabel. vi måste säkerställa en fn-ledd utredning om dessa brott och stödja skolflickorna i landet. till sveriges regering, till sveriges utrikesminister tobias billström och deras stödparti sverigedemokraterna vill jag avslutningsvis återigen säga: sluta hitta ursäkter för regimen i iran och stämpla i stället revolutionsgardet irgc som en terroristorganisation nu. ni sitter på eu-ordförandeskapet.
author. – mr president, the islamic republic is an evil republic. the mullahs and/or their henchmen have poisoned thousands of schoolgirls in 11 provinces as part of an unconscionable and despicable tactic to suppress pro-democracy protests. these girls are not mere numbers, another statistic, but individuals – as valuable to their families as my own four daughters are to me. they have, or rather should have, the same – and even more – rights to life and liberty as our own daughters. these crimes against humanity are an affront to the people of iran and to the international community. our answer cannot be meek, diplomatic condemnations and feeble demands for justice for their families. no, our answer must have real consequences for those that took the decision to perpetrate these evil acts against young girls and strike at the political and economic foundations of the islamist theocracy. the corrupt mullahs’ time is running out. the youth of iran dare to dream again, and the party that will follow the fall of this evil regime will be one to behold. i call upon the commission, the european council and the swedish presidency, including foreign minister tobias billström, to invite representatives of the alliance for democracy and freedom in iran to brussels for discussions on the future of a free, secular and democratic iran, to end negotiations on the jcpoa, and to classify the irgc and use their assets to create a strike fund. member states should, of course, recall their ambassadors from tehran and expel both the mullahs, diplomats and their families. (the speaker concluded in a non-official language)
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, (the speaker used a slogan in a non-eu language). woman, life, freedom: three words that have shaken the world. if you have not heard them, then you have been sleeping. it is time to wake up. if you have not seen the bullets of the irgc and the freedom—seeking women’s body, if you have not smelt the poisoning gas that has been attacked to the schoolgirls in iran, then it is time for you to come out of the cave that you have been into. but do you know what it is time for? for the foreign affairs ministers of the eu to actually finally act, to choose a side, to show the same courage as the women of iran that are shouting on the top of their lungs for freedom. it is time to put the irgc on the eu terrorist list. we have chosen to stand with the women and girls in iran until the people of iran are free. our fury will be bigger than the oppressor. (the speaker used a slogan in a non-eu language.) women, life, freedom. put irgc on the eu terrorist list now.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in the same year that the european pillar of social rights was adopted in gothenburg, the european parliament identified a problem and called on the member states to introduce an 'adequate minimum income'. then the minimum wage directive became law, against the wishes of sweden and denmark. to add insult to injury, commissioner schmit promised to tackle the inadequacy of the minimum income. last autumn's non-binding recommendation called on member states to achieve an 'adequate level of income support' by 2031. when aid does not reach the sufficient level, binding legislation will be introduced, although decision-making will remain at member state level. that's how the transfer of power to the eu works. those who call themselves liberals vote as marxists in this parliament. today they supported the demand for an adequate minimum income. if i, for the sake of peace in europe, were to demand a billion dollars to release peace doves, the majority would vote in favour. the eu state grows unchecked if no one resists. that is why we swedish democrats voted against the resolution on an adequate minimum income.
mr president, commissioner, sadly it’s been difficult to get a majority to agree that animal welfare really needs to be a higher priority on our agenda, and we are still fighting to get a resolution on this issue. as greens, we would like to see animal welfare in the title of an eu commissioner, or even a dedicated commissioner for animal welfare. because there is so much work left to do and high expectations from civil society: end the cage age, save cruelty free cosmetics, stop finning and, just recently, fur free europe. there’s millions of citizens that want to see concrete and eu-wide action as soon and as ambitious as possible. so, dear commissioner, i’m expecting and will support an ambitious proposal for the revision of the eu animal welfare legislation. and i’m also asking you to really take these different citizen initiatives to heart, as you have done before, for the animals and for the citizens.
madam president, i would like to thank you. after the council meeting, the kristersson government declared that the competitiveness of the union was at the top of the agenda. a small leap after a mandate of over 6000 new acts from brussels. but the only concrete thing that eu leaders agreed on was to discuss competitiveness once a year. no one who has followed the debate on the eu's response to us green business subsidies is surprised. the commission's counterargument was to open up state aid to enterprises. your proposal, chairman charles michel, has been called the karl marx of steroids. it is clear that state aid and the detailed management of enterprises are fashionable here in brussels, which is the exact opposite of competitiveness. i can't believe you have to stand here and explain this to me. when the eu enforces the principle of repealing at least one law for every new law adopted, when the eu introduces sunset clauses that prevent bureaucracy from growing, then the competitiveness of the union is at the top of the agenda.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, my dear colleague, executive vice-president, mr timmermans, i really would like to thank all of the honourable members for appreciating all the efforts which have been invested in making sure that we found an agreement on the future use of the e-fuels in cars. and i would like to reassure mr weber and many others who intervened in that regard that we will now work on getting the co2 standards for a cars regulation as soon as possible and of course the european parliament will get their say on the legality and politics of the delegated act. i know that my colleague, frans timmermans, will intervene on other topics, but i’m sure also that his presence here is just proving that this is exactly how we are going to act in the next weeks and months. i would like to appreciate also the remarks of mr azmani and mr lamberts on the importance of the competiton activity of the european economy and the commission, as many of you referred to, presented the proposals of net-zero industry act and critical raw material act just to make sure that we would increase our overall security, our open strategic autonomy, and also making sure that we would avoid over-dependency on critical raw materials and sensitive technologies we need for the future. we know how costly our over-dependence on russian fossil fuels has become, but we learned lessons from that experience and as you would see from these proposals, but also by our work on the first ever common purchase of gas, that we want to make sure that we will not repeat that mistake. and therefore your support and clear call, which was reflected in the european council conclusions, to spare no efforts to make sure that we will use european economic and political weight, not only to get the adequate volumes of gas we need, but also to push the prices lower, is, for us, our primary objective. as you know, we are working very much on a tight schedule against the clock but i would like to reassure you that we will open the first ever tender for the common purchase of gas already this may. and we very much appreciate that it was clearly reflected also in the european council conclusions and it got support from the honourable members of this house. i would like also to thank mr reuten and madam charanzová and many others for all their encouraging statements and interventions regarding how important european support for ukraine is. and, as you know, we do our utmost to get all necessary supplies to ukraine as soon as possible so they can defend themselves. the secretary general of the un, mr guterres, when he was having an exchange with the european leaders, was highlighting how much he appreciates our solidarity lane proposals through which the ukrainian grains found the way to where they are needed the most, in the global south. and we very much appreciate, as madam szydło was referring to, the role of especially bordering countries in this regard: poland, slovakia, hungary, romania and bulgaria. and we know that this assistance and these efforts have a cost, and we are looking into the ways how we can assist these countries also as much as possible. to the honourable member, mr rangel, i would like to thank for his support and encouragement for the windsor framework. i just would like to inform you that just last friday with my counterpart, the foreign secretary of the uk, james cleverly, we approved all the necessary decisions in the joint committee and we open a new chapter in eu-uk relations. and now i believe we can focus on the future and we can focus on how to use the full potential of the eu-uk trade and cooperation agreement.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. it is encouraging that the ruling bodies have become aware of the urgency of reindustrialisation - a late awakening, however, in the wake of the covid-19 pandemic and the galloping inflation. but any strategy in this area will be met with a lack of protection of our interests against foreign competition, especially from china. this applies both to the european market and beyond, since the president of the european investment bank had to lament that the union was unable to give preference to its companies in projects supported through its public aid. and since europe is no longer producing anything, all its policies have a disagreeable tendency to turn against it. the financial times reports that brussels' brains have discovered the rubbish: "more than three quarters" of solar panels imported into the european union come from "one country". i am not going to dwell on the proven risks of industrial property theft, which europeans seem to be unable to cope with. the result is that unless we turn to protectionism, our attempts at reindustrialisation will remain a figment of the imagination. europeans are waiting for more than incantations. thank you.
in writing. since the outbreak of the war of aggression by the russian federation, we have overcome many challenges, but as the european council conclusions have highlighted, we need to step up our efforts to adapt our economy to the current context. whether it is energy, industrial policy, agriculture or increasing the union's competitiveness in key sectors, europe needs to set an ambitious agenda to develop its internal market, increase its strategic autonomy and protect citizens from negative impacts. in this context, as the socialist group leader in the european parliament responsible for next year's european budget, i called for more substantial support for areas affected by industrial transition, the rural environment, smes, education, youth and health, as well as adjustment of european programmes in relation to the inflation rate. the difficult context we are facing must lead us to maintain european unity, in which sense we have also integrated references to supplementing the support given to the frontline states, but also to the republic of moldova, through which we will be able to help this country on its european path. i call on the european commission and the member states to speed up the adoption of measures to keep the union resilient, cohesive and supported by its citizens, in the belief that only together can we overcome all these challenges.
in writing. – europe is facing a number of challenges, we should therefore foster our efforts on eu unity to strengthen its solidarity with ukraine and measures aimed at boosting investment and eu economic competitiveness. slovakia is setting a good example, being one of the countries which has supplied mig fighter jets to ukraine. supplying artillery ammunition to ukraine through the use of the european peace facility is vital for european security. every hour is important on the battlefield, so we should ramp up our joint efforts of support.
the next item is the joint debate on: - the report by bas eickhout, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on fluorinated greenhouse gases, amending directive (eu) 2019/1937 and repealing regulation (eu) no 517/2014 (com (2022) 0150, c9-0142/2022 - 2022/0099 (cod)) (a9-0048/2023), and- the report by jessica polfjärd, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on substances that deplete the ozone layer and repealing regulation (ec) no 1005/2009 (com (2022) 0151 - c9-0143/2022 - 2022/0100 (cod)) (a20239-0050).
rapporteur. – madam president, colleagues, vice-president, welcome, have a seat. we are here discussing, in the end, the phase-out of fluorinated gases. fluorinated gases are very highly potent greenhouse gases. so one molecule of one of f-gases can even warm up the climate to the level of 24 000 times more than co2. and that is exactly what we’re trying to do here: what we’re going to do here is making an end to these f-gases and making sure that natural alternatives are being used so that this part of our economy will reach climate neutrality as promised also by 2050. this goes back to when we were initially looking at cfcs that were causing, of course, a hole in the ozone layer and we replaced them with f-gases along the years but, of course, these, as i said, were very potent greenhouse gases. so there is an idea of some of the companies to say let’s every time then move away from these f-gases to other f-gases that have a lower impact, but still have an impact on our climate system and even to the level of going to pfas, so damaging chemicals, whereas in many of these sectors natural alternatives are available, are existing and should be put at the front. and that is exactly what we are doing here and proposing here in the report. so maybe just some highlights of the report. first of all, as i said, we are accelerating the transition to climate neutrality, meaning that in total quota f-gases will go to zero by 2050, ensuring climate neutrality in this low-hanging fruit. secondly, we limit the risk of a lock-in to intermediate solutions like pfas, so those sectors that can make the switch should make the switch to natural alternatives and skip the phase of pfas that are damaging chemicals, and we would like to skip that and prevent that lock-in in intermediate solutions. thirdly, we are providing certainty for consumers and investors. those sectors that can move should move faster, and the bands that we are proposing in the report are very clear, are also thought of on making sure that they can deliver in time so that also the investors know what the direction of innovation in europe should be. we also take international responsibility by adding an export ban, which means that if we are going to clean up our own suppliers and we are going to clean up our own products, we are also making sure that we are not going to export steel products with f-gases to other countries outside the eu and this export ban is also part of the deal. we are also there to prevent illegal trade and we want to accelerate training and employment in order to make sure that people, of course, also are being helped in making sure that they can do the new instalment. there was, of course, a lot of discussion on heat pumps specifically, and we have paid a lot of specific attention also in our negotiations on the heat pumps, so there will be extra space in the quota system until 2030 and there is also a very clear check for the commission to make sure that indeed we are still reaching the targets of repowereu. and if there are issues with quotas, then the commission will also make sure that they will intervene and create more quotas where necessary. also with switchgear, we have been looking at specific needs there and, for example, for the high voltage, we will make sure that if there is a move towards an end of f-gases, that there will always be at least two bidders so that we are not creating any monopoly. so all this together is very much clearly putting up european innovation for european smes central and, yes, you get a lot of lobby mills, but be aware most of those lobby mills are from american and japanese companies who still would like to invest in these chemicals, which also have patents. well, we here go for the natural alternatives which a lot of european smes are already innovating on, so a vote for what we have achieved in the envi committee is a vote for european smes, is a vote for european innovation. and with that, i would like to thank my colleagues, and i’m looking forward to a fruitful and nice lively debate.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. when we began this mandate, this union took on a great and crucial mission: to transform our societies to make them more sustainable. it was a big and important step towards making europe greener, more competitive, but also healthier. this presents both opportunities and challenges. we have a great responsibility as decision-makers to live up to the environmental and climate goals we have set. at the same time, these are also opportunities for sustainable development, combining sustainability with growth and competitiveness. much has already been done during this mandate, but we need to take further steps, and tomorrow an important and concrete step forward in this work will be taken in terms of improving our ozone layer. emissions of ozone-depleting substances have resulted in a depletion of the ozone layer that has contributed to global warming. preventing emissions of these substances is the key to preventing damage to health and the environment. this is precisely what happens when the ozone layer is damaged, and therefore something we need to work on in order to meet the union's climate objectives. the current regulatory framework is the most important eu instrument for continuing the work of improving and restoring the ozone layer. it has also proven to work well and so our proposal builds on previous successes with further measures to reduce emissions. this is not only a success for health and the environment, but also for european industry, which is guaranteed longterm viability in its work with the new regulatory framework. i am glad that we in the political groups can support an ambitious and balanced proposal to continue our efforts. i would therefore like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their commitment and work over the last six months, but also the technical team who have worked hard. in this way we raise ambition while creating the right conditions for all parties involved to be able to comply with the new regulatory framework. together, we've been able to agree on some important things. firstly, the higher ambitions mean that we will have a regulatory framework that focuses on ozone emissions where they are greatest and most serious compared to the past. this is important for the work we are doing, to have the greatest possible impact on improving the ozone layer. secondly, we have ensured that we do not take drastic measures that risk doing more harm than good. for example, if we are to phase out certain substances, other alternatives must be available and ready to be used. one thing is guiding environmental and climate action: high ambition combined with realism, and ensuring growth. with the text on the table, we are showing europe once again that a more sustainable economy can be combined with the right conditions for people and industry. i hope that you will all support this proposal and that we too can enter into negotiations with the council of ministers with a clear and strong mandate from the european parliament.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, a big thank you to my swedish colleague jessica polfjärd. it's been a lot of fun working with you. it has been ambitious and it has been a good result, but in view of that i really wonder, how is it that the moderates back home in sweden are not ambitious on the climate issue and the climate change? the assessment made by the climate council this morning was not just a sawing - it was a chainsaw massacre of the climate work of the current moderate-led government at home in sweden. the presidency of the council of ministers has been anything but ambitious on climate change. as soon as the word forest is mentioned, it has even acted as a brake on the climate change. but you, jessica, you've done a great job. i hope you can be an inspiration to other moderates back home in sweden. if nothing else, you should call the prime minister at home and tell him it's time to raise ambitions at home. because it's really needed!
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the f-gas regulation affects many sectors and will be of crucial importance for european and italian industry. once again parliament has produced a report which, if adopted, will lead to a major contraction in the turnover of leading italian companies, jeopardising jobs in europe and shifting investment out of the eu. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. in some sectors, banning equipment containing greenhouse gases, even if they have a low global warming potential, is not quickly achievable today. few equipment using f-gas can use alternative sources, either because of lack of technological innovation or because they are potentially dangerous or worse from an environmental point of view. the word "ecological transition" needs to be reconsidered. we must take account of the times, we must set them better and we must share them with industry. we must enable industry to safeguard the environment, workers, families and all those affected by this review. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. this is the wrong direction to take if we are to support the environment and our industry. we will support the amendments tabled by the ppe, because the environmental approach is correct and we share it, we are all in favour of the environment, but we must do so within the time limits which allow us today, through our industries, to maintain the prosperity we have achieved.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. you can't see it, but these f-gases are really a mess, and i'm trying to translate that into english as well: f-gases are a very dirty stuff. we have to get rid of them. this is important for the climate and the environment. now they say: yes, but this is a problem for the economy and for jobs. but i am convinced that the opposite is true: european industry is innovative. it has already developed and is offering the alternatives, often in contrast to american and japanese companies. and this is not protectionism, but support for innovation, if we make laws that protect the environment and european companies are simply better. i am therefore very grateful to the rapporteur and to all the others, especially stelios kympouropoulos of the epp, that we have a good report here. but i am also convinced that we need amendments. i would ask for support for amendments nos 152 and 160. this is about the craft, about repairs and spare parts. and i think we have to take that into account. then a good envi report can become a very good plenary report - good for the climate, good for the environment, good for innovative companies and good for europe.
mr president, dear vice-president timmermans, dear colleagues, first of all, allow me to congratulate ms polfjärd for the report and also the cooperation during the negotiations. i would also like to thank our staff. well, in the ozone-depleting substances field, more than 2 000 small- and medium-sized enterprises operate at eu level and it is important to strengthen the commission proposal with the social dimension being in line with the european pillar of social rights. on the other hand, introducing maximum emission levels and the schedule for phasing out for quantitative limits are important pieces of the emissions and pollutants package under the european green deal. the eu’s ozone regulation, we can say that this is one of the big success stories of the eu environmental policy and shows how excellent results can be achieved with clear, binding rules, which were missing over years and decades at the level of climate ambition, and in addition cementing europe’s position as a global leader at the montreal protocol.
(for the renew group). mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. did you know that last year twice as many fossil fuel heating systems were sold in germany as heat pumps? this shows us that we need every heat pump in the world if we're going to be able to phase out the russian gas. but f-gases are used in heat pumps - f-gases that have an incredibly high impact on the climate and the greenhouse effect and that need to be phased out. we are faced, as we have so often been in the past, with a dilemma. we need to phase out the f-gases, but if we do it too fast, we're gonna shoot ourselves in the foot. we're stopping the electrification and we're making it harder to phase out the russian gas. if you do what the people on the right want, you ignore climate policy and do nothing, but if you do as the green party dream world does, you phase out all the badness overnight and have no alternative to replace the gas with. that is why we need a realistic environmental policy, so that we can do things but have two minds at the same time. we need to phase out the f-gas, but we need to do it with realistic alternatives, and we need to be able to solve the climate issue in both the short and long term.
catch-the-eye procedure president. – we go to the catch-the-eye now. we have five speakers and i would ask you to be brief, one minute.
mr president, i want to express my full commitment to the objective of the union being climate neutral by 2050 and to make sure that this transition to a zero-emission economy is driven by participation, the use of available social knowledge, consensus and technology. we will thus avoid episodes like the one we recently experienced with the ban on the sale of combustion vehicles. a race for the most eye-catching headline penalized equally effective proposals, but from technological neutrality. i hope we can use the lessons learned. one example is amendment no 56 which 'supports' the article banning an inhalation anaesthetic which is difficult to substitute, especially in paediatric surgery. the original proposal proposed an exception to the ban when its use was essential and there was no clinical alternative. it also required that the company justify its decision by means of a complex procedure, but this did not prevent emissions. we support the use of this substance when used in combination with a system to capture these harmful emissions. i am basing this on a project that is underway at the basque public health service (osakidetza): a technology that avoids emissions, reduces the carbon footprint of the hospital that implements it, guarantees anesthesiologists the free choice of anesthetic and easily adapts to the working practices of any hospital. knowledge, consensus and technology are better than headlines and ideology.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, the proposal that has been put forward is unrealistic, unworkable, naive and will largely cause job losses on the european continent and is in the interests of lobbyists such as the propane sector. i have no doubt that the speakers have good intentions, but i think that we are witnessing once again how good intentions will reshape and help reshape an industry and this room will be used to vote in one or the other favour. i repeat, this is in the interest of german companies, for example, but it is in no way in the interest of companies in central and eastern europe that are working in this field. again, i see lobbying here in the interest and in the direction of companies that deal with and produce and sell propane, which is supposed to replace these gases, as you call them, and we see the same thing that happened with the mobility package, that happened with the internal combustion engines. a climate hysteria that, however, has turned into lobbying and actually threatened jobs.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, for months we have been discussing here the importance of saving energy and moving to clean energy. we set ourselves a very good target of having 50 million new heat pumps in the european union by 2030. but with this regulation on fluorinated gases, we simply will not achieve that. and who will answer then? the increased prices will make it less likely that people will switch to heat pumps. we're not going to save energy, and refrigerators are going to go up in price, retail will be hurt, agriculture and tourism will be hurt. yes, fluoridated gases are harmful, especially some. however, we need time to develop alternatives. what decision will you make, one that sounds good now but is unrealistic or one that brings good results for people and the environment? so i urge you to be realistic and effective, to reject the envi amendments and to vote for our amendments that can make this report good.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you, and thank you to the members for their contribution to the debate. the proposals we’re discussing today together could bring about a total reduction in the eu’s greenhouse gas emissions of 490 million tonnes in co2 equivalents by 2050. it’s a significant number, slightly higher than the total annual greenhouse gas emissions of a country like france. i’m very pleased to see that parliament agrees on the general architecture of the proposals and that there is broad support. it’s fundamental that we remain united in the fight against climate change, that we do not to close our eyes to science and that we let scientists guide us. that’s what we’re doing today: taking science as your guiding principle – that’s realistic; closing your eyes to science – that’s unrealistic and dangerous, especially for jobs. i recognise that the timing of some requirements for when products need to make the shift to more climate-friendly gases has been here an element of discussion? i note that several amendments seem to think it is better to delay these dates, for instance, for heat pumps. and i do also note that my good friend alexandr vondra is now such a warm proponent of heat pumps – that came as a welcome surprise. but for heat pumps, this comes at a time where we need to increase deployment rapidly to meet our repowereu and 2030 climate goals. the commission is well aware of this and included heat pumps as a strategic sector in the net-zero industry act. and let me add, since this issue was mentioned just a while ago, two of the biggest factories for making heat pumps, in the world, will be built in eastern europe. and that is going to lead to a lot of jobs and well-paid jobs and long-term jobs. so let’s not create caricatures here, please. but as many in eu industry, we don’t think it helps to continue business as usual. these two plans show that clearly. we need to invest now in the right manufacturing, not the obsolete ones. technologies exist and by asking to make the shift early on, we create a competitive advantage for our industry, not a disadvantage. some of us are fighting every day – every day – to convince you and others that we do not help our workers, our industry, our growth by tying ourselves, by chaining ourselves to the past. and i hope this parliament has the wisdom to understand that this can be done and it gives us a competitive edge, an advantage over other parts of the world if we are forward—looking. so, delaying these bans, as some amendments propose, cannot, in all earnestness, be seen as being in the interest of the european union, of its people and of its workforce. so i call on the european parliament to be also ambitious on this tomorrow and engage in a swift negotiation process to reach an agreement with council before summer so that the new rules for both f—gases and ozone—depleting substances can apply from 2024 onwards. this will send an early signal to industry as well as getting better tools to prevent illegal activities.
rapporteur. – mr president, first of all, i really would like to thank all my colleagues who have been part of the negotiations. here i want to stress that, during those negotiations, we have been talking to many european industries: from poland, from czech republic, from italy, from greece. exactly those companies in those countries who are saying, ‘we are ready.’ when you are saying this is a green ideology, you are defending american and japanese companies who like to sell some of these chemicals and are only interested in innovation in the chemicals themselves, which in the end even deliver pfas in heat pumps. that’s what you’re aiming for, and that’s not what we are aiming for. we are aiming here for european innovation, and it is not only germany. this is exactly indeed what vice-president mr timmermans is also rightfully saying. this is not the kind of old argument to say, ‘ah, this is promoting german industry.’ this is an industry that is all over europe, and it’s all over europe investing in innovation and in new jobs. and that’s exactly what we’re supporting here. it’s the american and the japanese companies that are not going into that innovation. it’s the european ones. so, this time it is very clear-cut and we have sufficient time. we have talked to a lot of industry who said we can do it already next year, but we even allow them more time; we even have safeguards; we even have asked the commission to make sure that they are keeping it on track for the implementation of repowereu. all that is in place, and then now still delaying things because some of the american and japanese lobby is asking you to do so? i think this is time to choose for european industry and european innovation, and that’s what we’re going to do tomorrow.
the commission mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you to all of you who have contributed to the debate, even if this time it was not so hard. i can see that there is a great deal of agreement and broad parliamentary support for the importance of working ambitiously and purposefully on our environment and climate policy. i am also glad that we are putting the issue at the centre and leaving unrealistic proposals to it. as i began this debate, the european parliament showed with this proposal how we can work towards ambitious and realistic proposals to meet our environmental and climate challenges. environmental and climate challenges are the big issue of our time, and just as the challenges are, so are the opportunities. the green transition can contribute to europe's prosperity, development and competitiveness. let us seize these opportunities and make them possible as far as possible. i would like to thank the political groups and the shadow rapporteurs who have worked and negotiated this proposal. i should also like to thank mr pär holmgren from the green group for his praise of my work. i'm gonna go home and think about whether it was good or bad.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner johansson wants to see government scanning of all messages on all platforms and in all messaging apps. the current chat control was so heavily criticized that a sunset clause was introduced, but it's still voluntary. new chat controls will be handled by a newly established eu centre without a specific focus on child protection. the risk of misuse is obvious. the commission has already proposed to extend the list of eu crimes to what it calls hate speech and hate crime. will i be able to warn in future that the new mosque in karlstad is at risk of contributing to extremism because it is salafist, or will i have committed a hate crime? no one knows. the data retention directive was only supposed to tackle very serious crime, but instead it was hunting down file sharers. moreover, one of tele2's largest customers, when it came to requests for disclosure, was the tax office. new chat controls require search tools to be developed or approved by the eu centre. existing and functioning systems are at risk of being replaced by less effective tools. the commission's proposal would ban secure, protected and private communications. we have to say no if we want to protect our freedom.
thank you, mrs aubry.
we have another point of order from mr štefanec.
madam president, 35 years ago, a very important event took place in bratislava that changed the history of czechoslovakia and europe. this was the candle manifestation. thousands of people peacefully protested against communist tyranny by praying with lit candles. at that time, the communist government brutally suppressed this peaceful assembly with water cannons, batons and arrests. the european parliament then adopted a special resolution condemning this brutality and calling for respect for the human rights of christians. this significant event led to the velvet revolution and the fall of the iron curtain in europe. allow me here, today, to welcome with us the direct participants of this important event in our history and thank them for their courage, which contributed to the freedom of europe.
thank you very much, and welcome to the guests.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
rapporteur. – madam president, colleagues, i will not do a very long speech now. i’m just asking, pursuant to rule 59(4), for immediate referral back to the committee so that we can start interinstitutional negotiations.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would also like to be brief and i would like to request the referral back to the committee for interinstitutional negotiations, according to rule 59(4) of the rules of procedure.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the eu is the best environmental organisation in the world. by agreeing to the world's first legislation against imported and exported deforestation, we are further strengthening that role. the combined strength of the single market makes the eu a force to be reckoned with. our trade policy is one of the main tools we have to influence other countries, to protect the world's forests instead of clearing them. only those who can prove that they have not contributed to deforestation or forest degradation are welcome in our single market and we guarantee sustainable consumption all the way. this is a law that comes from the people. it is the result of demonstrations across europe where people demanded action when rainforests were on fire. it shows that it is possible to act sustainably, protect the lungs of the earth and safeguard biodiversity. that's what i call green liberalism.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. then it's time to discuss the forest again. this time, not just forests in the eu, but forests all over the world and how to protect them from deforestation and logging. these are questions that are so obvious that we really shouldn't even be discussing them. it's legislation that could have a very, very big positive effect on us in the near future. but in sweden, this is discussed a lot. sweden as a country and with a large political majority behind has done everything to weaken this legislation. the same political majority nevertheless claims that sweden has the most sustainable forestry in the world. if sweden's forestry were the most sustainable in the world, this legislation would not be a threat to forestry. and if this legislation is a threat to swedish forestry, then swedish forestry is not as sustainable as most people still seem to believe and as most people still very much like to tell others that it is.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. – mr president, colleagues, commissioner, the next time you turn your head up towards the blue sky and white clouds and are stroked by its beauty, the next time you wander around in the forest to find yourself admiring creatures and the greenery surrounding you, the next time you breathe in fresh air, remember what we might, with our current behaviour and lack of actions, deprive generations after us. we have more knowledge than any other generation before us to save the future from poisoning, but yet have been too comfortable to act until now. how long can we go on like this? no longer, colleagues. the more days that pass, the faster we need to run to stop a catastrophic future from becoming a reality. we need to act within the eu borders and beyond. the carbon border adjustment mechanism, cbam, is one of the most important tools for us, in the eu, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, also in non-eu countries. the emission culprits must pay and those affected must be supported. in this way we can invest in the next generation also through new climate protection measures in developing countries. the reinvestments of revenue in climate resilience would set a precedent for future cbam systems. it is in the interest of our planet. the future is created here and now.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: as rapporteur for the agri opinion on cbam, i shall concentrate on this regulation only. the compromise is not in the interests of the agri-food sector. as the agricultural organisations have rightly pointed out, this regulation will have a double effect on agriculture: on the one hand, it will have the negative effects of the inclusion of fertilising products in the regulation, and thus increase their prices, and on the other hand, agricultural products will not benefit from the protection of competitiveness provided by participation in the cbam scheme. i realize that it was far too early to include these products, but no mechanism was developed to protect farmers from possible increases in fertiliser prices. the second problem of great economic sensitivity and consequently of political consequence is the withdrawal of free ets allowances as cbams are introduced. i pointed out that it was too early for that, and although i appreciate the negotiated timetable for their withdrawal better than the ambitious position of the parliament's environment committee, in my view the withdrawal of free allowances carries the risk of destabilising production in the energy-intensive industrial sector and further losing the competitiveness of the european economy. i am also critical of the cbam's coverage of indirect emissions. i've requested that this be done after additional impact assessment. the positive element is that the member states become owners of the funds from the sale of cbams. but we have already heard here in this chamber that a large number of members expect that this will also be revenue for the european union budget, and that should not be the case.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteurs on this package, because we have really struck a balance. because the environment and climate are obviously the most important, but economic growth, jobs and the protection of the poorest consumers are equally important. a just transformation is absolutely crucial. i'll just briefly touch on five things. all revenue from the co2 auction going to national budgets will be spent on climate objectives. it's really good: more renewable energy, building retrofits, or just transformation. but you have to control it. it's very important that we check it out. secondly, an additional 30% of free allowances for district heating. for countries like poland, it's crucial to also ensure that the heat bills are within some limits. third, the maximum price ceiling in the ets 2. for poor europeans, this is crucial. fourth, to improve the transparency of the ets market. avoid manipulation of prices to match the real needs of market control in terms of emissions control. and then finally, cbam, the carbon boundary mechanism. i also speak for mr adam jaroubas, who was the co-rapporteur of the ppe group: greenhouse gas emissions, jobs must not be allowed to be taken out of europe. we have put in place good, uniform principles and uniform governance of the mechanism and strong anti-circumvention principles. and, very importantly, companies covered by cbam will gradually lose their free allowances under the ets. we must not allow them to lose their competitiveness. you have to watch it, monitor it. especially when they're in the united states, following our lead, and they're fighting for the climate, too. this is our big break. i'm going to the hospital.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have come as meps to make the european union greener and to stop the climate crisis. we have therefore decided on the climate emergency, and we have decided on a european climate law, which commits us to be climate neutral by 2050 at the latest. these are good goals, they are right, but they must be implemented. the votes this week are bringing us much closer to these goals in many respects. we're reducing 62 percent of emissions in the emissions trading area. that's a lot, that's ambitious, and at the same time, we're making sure that we're not overburdening our industry. we're making sure that the industry stays competitive. we are therefore creating something new in the world with the co2 cap system. i think we can be quite happy with that and proud of it. at the same time, we are also introducing an emissions trading system for transport and buildings. why do we have to do this? because far too little co2 has been saved in these areas, our legislation, which decides, for example, on the burner, is far too late and is in fact being torpedoed even in the last few metres under the guise of greenhouse gas neutrality. so we can't have both at the same time. the emissions trading system 2 for the building and transport sectors is completely antisocial in concept, because it puts the greatest burden on those who cannot choose which heating they have in their basement - the landlord does. it is a burden for those who cannot take the bus to work because there is no public transport, but must use the car. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the ehs ii programme is socially just. that's what we get for the climate social fund. that is the success of the european parliament. and it will not be possible for some in the government to campaign against the european union in the next european elections, because we are on the side of the weakest. it was a hell of a fight, though. i see many young people here in the european parliament today, and that is why we have the promise from this side that we will not stop the commission - which is here today - from setting ambitious targets for the 2040 objective, and we must also think about the future. i would urge the commission to listen here today to the scientific advisory committee which we have decided by a large majority in the european parliament. because the climate crisis is not waiting for us to make decisions. it will move forward, and that is why we must all keep up with it. i believe that today or this week we are taking an important step with the historic decisions, but we are not yet finished.
blue-card speech. – thank you for accepting the blue card. first of all, sasha, you know that me and my party, we are against phasing out nuclear in this week. it’s definitely a mistake. but you shouldn’t put the blame on everybody, but on the german government. but my question, sasha, in the trilogue you supported the deal. in the envi committee, you voted in favour. your speech, is it for the other colleagues or is it for yourself? you supported the deal and you should be continuously supporting it because it was the czech presidency with prime minister fiala that did the deal.
in the name of the id group. mr president, the ets will be voted on after the end of 2022 agreement; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected. i would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in a market system, price is determined by supply and demand, not by fairy tales. by 2027, we risk carbon prices rising well above the €45 limit hoped for by the european institutions, causing a direct increase in fossil fuels such as gas, petrol and diesel. it is no longer just the league that denounces it, but also experts in the field and authoritative newspapers. what will the majority groups vote on, knowing that the maximum price of 45 euros is not guaranteed at all? the gradual elimination of free allowances for businesses is also too rapid. businesses are already facing energy and raw material price increases and uncertainties about the recovery, while markets outside the eu are increasingly competitive. will the reform of the ets, if carried out in this way, help businesses? will it reduce the cost to our citizens? will it help us to be more competitive in a global market or will it make it easier for competitors? what if businesses relocate, do we save the environment? let's not create false expectations. let's not confuse ambition with madness. as the id group, we demand that the agreement be rejected. a new commission proposal is needed, one that focuses on climate objectives but supports businesses by better timing and accompanying them in this transition.
mr president, i would like to thank you. for the 2019 european elections, climate was a big issue for all of europe. our party opted for an effective climate policy, one that requires all member states and sectors to contribute and that encourages market-based solutions and enables innovation and new technologies. in march, we took the first step by agreeing binding climate targets for all member states. this week, we're taking the next big step. with the new emissions trading system, we have agreed on a stricter system that ensures we are in line with our target of reducing eu emissions by 55% by 2030. it is absolutely necessary to achieve the climate goals. we are also implementing the demand, which this parliament has been making for a long time, that the system be extended to more sectors, not least to maritime transport. this will also reduce emissions in this sector. it's gonna cost you to let me out. we have now made that certain. at the same time, we know that european industry is in a difficult situation with both inflation and the energy crisis. with this agreement we are ensuring that the new requirements are phased in rather than being a one-off shock, as the proposal originally envisaged. it allows the industry to adapt and adjust its regulatory framework over time. last but not least, nuclear power has an obvious role to play in climate action, and i am glad that we now have an ets system that includes this as well. i would therefore like to thank my epp colleagues for their hard work on this legislation - legislation that is actually feasible. europe is leading the way with a clear political direction. with the help of the market and industry, we will lead the future into the green transition.
mr president, i would like to thank you. tomorrow we have a historic vote for the eu, for the climate and for the future. the tightening of the emissions trading system, the introduction of climate tariffs and the social climate fund are perhaps the most important reforms in fit for 55, which will take us to the eu's 2030 climate targets. not only will the eu cut its emissions by more than half by 2030, we will also take responsibility for a fair transition for our citizens and create a level playing field for our businesses both within and outside the eu. it is so clear the eu is leading the green transition and is now showing the rest of the world that a sustainable future is possible. implementing the green transition is exactly that: taking responsibility. and it's about respect and it's about justice. i am really proud that we in the eu are now actually doing what is necessary. but as the eu accelerates, a great deal of responsibility is being placed on our member states, where the policy is now to be implemented. of course, i am sincerely concerned about what is happening in my country. almost daily we see how the swedish climate policy is being dismantled by the sweden democrats and a right-wing government. no new proposals are presented on how sweden should achieve the climate goals. it's deeply irresponsible and it's not leadership. but we in the eu will do our part, and we will make it clear to all member states - also to the swedish government - and to everyone else that they are doing their part. it is important for the sake of our children and grandchildren and for our common future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. europe needs to protect both its climate and its competitiveness. without protection of competitiveness, both jobs and the climate are the big losers, and imposing impossible demands will result in companies moving their production outside the union, where emissions are higher. we therefore need to formulate climate legislation that is ambitious but also realistic. that was my entry when i represented the epp in the negotiations on eu emissions trading. we now have a final result to decide. i am glad to see that there are a number of proposals that the christian democrats have pushed through in the process and that the red and green parties have tried to stop. one of the main points is that the free allocation of allowances to strategically important industries is being phased out at a more responsible pace than in the original proposal. we also got an exemption for benchmarks that protect european steel production and encourage new steel production technologies. we got through increased incentives for companies that store or use carbon dioxide, where they're going to be able to resell those emission allowances so that it pays to capture their emissions. and we got through - despite the protests of the green party - that the revenue from the carbon trading should go to more carbon storage and electrification of the aircraft and that the revenue should actually go to invest in new nuclear power. the latter is just the latest example of how those who in the previous eu election campaign claimed that nuclear power was not an eu issue could not have been more wrong.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner šuica, you are here. have you heard of the demonstration trains in sweden? i assume you have done so because one of your main priorities is the reconciliation of work and family life. have you heard what firefighter madelene olsson has said, whose partner is also a firefighter, and i quote: for those of us who have a small child at home, it would be impossible to reconcile family life and work. one of us would have to quit. you know that personal assistant who has to buy a new car and the kids get more days in preschool? if you do not know what i am talking about, neither should you nor the commission ban the 24-hour pass, which has been so good for both users and the working environment. if you and the commission have not noticed that tens of thousands of people in sweden have signed to stop the changes to the implementation of the working time directive, then two things should happen: you should stand down and leave them alone, and the swedish government should take this to the european court of justice.
mr president, high representative, executive vice-president, four points from my side on china. firstly: reduce dependencies on china. we saw with regard to the russian federation and dependency on an undemocratic, autocratic regime can be a vulnerability to the european union. it is a significant risk to the european union, particularly in times of crisis. we should learn from this. we should invest in research, innovation, use our single market, modernise our digital single market, make sure that our companies become even more competitive on the global scale so that we are as less dependent on china as possible. first point. second point: economically, china is a significant partner to us. we are a significant partner to it. we are the largest export market for chinese products, so we should work and insist on reciprocity, improve access to the chinese market for european companies, make sure that conditions for european companies in china are being improved and unfair practices are being terminated. thirdly, values are important to us. we should not compromise on values. a selfie with the communist chinese leader should not be a goal for the european union or for any politician coming from the european union when visiting china. china will not respect us if we are weak. our objective needs to be to improve our position towards china and speak up on human rights, also when it is difficult. and fourthly: the relationship with the united states and other allies. we need to give a clear message. the alliances that we are members of, the alliances of the free world, are important to the european union. so are our allies. we are sticking together. the objective of china is to have the upper hand in relation to the european union. we have to avoid this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. if we look at coherent strategy, i think we should let theatrical thunderbolts define our interests. let me make four points: first of all, we have to look at where trade with china is actually in a situation that is critical. ninety-five percent are uncritical, five percent are critical. we must strengthen our capacity to process raw materials ourselves, for example. secondly, we have created in the last year a means of defence to enforce our interests: the anti-coercion instrument, ipi, foreign subsidies. thirdly, i think it is clear that we also need cooperation in areas of particular interest to us, such as the reduction of co2. we need a global price on carbon, and for that, we need china. and fourthly, we need to continue to build up our network with reliable partners, because we are in competition with china in this area, so more bilateral trade agreements. and then we can defend our interests better.
mr president, mr high representative, mr vice-president, three key words to try to define a strategy for china in one minute. first, competition. china is an important economic competitor and, in this sense, strategic autonomy is a first element in avoiding our subordination. but to do that we must start playing our part in the world again, starting with the partnership with africa and the ratification of the mercosur treaty, abandoning the political myopia of recent years and strengthening our relations with the south american continent. the second word: collaboration. the great chinese market represents an extraordinary opportunity for our companies, as indeed we are for them. the third: rules. clear rules on intellectual property, security and privacy of users and institutions and protecting european investments in china. but three words, which require a precondition, a clear message that we must send from this house: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, dear commissioner, eu-china relations have deteriorated rapidly over the past years, leading to a more realist approach focusing on sharper economic competition and systemic rivalry. in view of the latest developments, including the covid-19 pandemic, sanctions for human rights violations and china’s actions against selected member states, the eu should enhance its resilience, diversify markets and secure supply chains. moving forward, we should work towards a more balanced and sustainable approach to our relations with china based on strategic priorities. in this regard, i believe there is an opportunity to cooperate on a positive agenda, such as on cooperation on biodiversity, sustainable development and climate change. these engagements should be on equal terms and based on the principle of reciprocity. while china remains a competitor, partner and systemic rival, the eu must strive to reduce its dependency on china while simultaneously engaging in constructive dialogue.
mr president, when we talk about china and human rights, we talk about individual and collective freedoms. we talk about repression of minorities, as in the case of the uyghurs, and the right to self-determination, as in taiwan. but europe will not get respect until we first do our own homework. europe has a choice. it can act like a big switzerland or be a bad copy of china. we can be a union grounded on communities based on self-determination, where prosperity is fueled by diversity, ingenuity and freedom, or by looking the other way when nations, peoples and political rights are vexed, we will become a degraded version of an authoritarian regime. europe has a lot of homework and catalonia is a test to check progress. so far, we’re failing.
mr president, the european union stands for open, rules-based and fair trade. we are also the foremost defender of democracy, freedom and human dignity. it is no news that china is very different. it’s a communist autocracy with massive state control of the market, denying its citizens basic human rights and threatening its peaceful neighbours. china cannot be treated like any other trading partner. we want to have a close relationship and we want to increase trade. but that requires positive movement from china: human rights being granted, subsidies abandoned and the freedom of the taiwanese people respected. we shall not seek unnecessary confrontation, but we need to show firmness towards china and be crystal clear about what is right and what is wrong. this should be done in unity with partners, and especially the transatlantic partnership needs to be reinforced further. in addition, we must drastically reduce our dependency on china for critical raw materials and diversify our supply chains. this could be done with the mercosur treaty or free trade agreements with australia and new zealand. so in summary, we shall cooperate where beneficial, compete when needed and confront when necessary.
mr president, commissioner, council, colleagues, this debate has been very much anticipated, especially since president von der leyen and president macron’s recent visit to china. this is not the first time the eu appears divided on matters of foreign policy. who is the spokesperson for the eu? is it borrell, michel, von der leyen, macron? or is it scholz? this underlines the need for a renewed and coherent eu-china strategy. the eu must continue to be the voice for those who cannot speak for themselves in china. and there should be absolutely no doubt that europe stands with taiwan. we cannot be afraid of aligning strategy with our democratic allies. as democracies, we must stand together always.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this week, parliament is making some very important decisions on climate. the climate threat is global. the eu and china are now interdependent in tackling this climate threat. we depend on trade and cooperation to produce vital things like wind turbines, batteries and solar cells. if we are to meet the climate challenge, we must develop this partnership. at the same time, we are today over-dependent on china in many areas, not least for the supply of critical earth metals, where we need to find other strategic and stable partners. if we are to meet the climate challenge, china must be included in climate action, but when we do, we must make our demands stronger and be extremely clear about increased human rights, better working conditions and the right of regions and countries to self-determination.
mr president, i would like to thank you. since russia's full-scale invasion of ukraine, we have been told that energy policy no longer exists in a vacuum, that energy policy decisions taken at national and union level also mean a great deal for our security, our growth, our competitiveness and our standard of living. energy storage will be an important part of the work to ensure that we can reap all the benefits of the expansion of renewable energy sources in the future. we need to be able to meet our energy needs even when the sun is not shining and the wind is blowing. we therefore need to allow further technological development in batteries and smart systems, and we need to ensure that the price of electricity is lower for all citizens. because let's be clear: this will be the decisive question in the near future. i cannot therefore stand in this chair and speak about energy policy without mentioning the betrayal of europe's consumers that took place this weekend. germany has now shut down its last nuclear reactors. this is nothing short of a disaster. instead of fossil-free cheap energy, germany is now increasing its emissions and risks driving up prices again. this is a historic mistake europe needs more nuclear power, not less.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the green transition will require a lot of green electricity and green hydrogen. if we're going to do that, i'm very optimistic about the production of wind power, solar power and also other renewable forms of energy, but this is where the big additions are going to happen. we must also add to this that, whatever our views on nuclear power, no new nuclear power plant will be ready in time, but we must be able to switch off and on energy whenever we want, and for this we must be able to store. again, i'm optimistic, because we now know that we can store gas in tanks and we can store electricity in batteries, and recently, new findings have shown that we can even make batteries out of wood, which is very, very interesting. i also heard very good news this morning on swedish radio that sweden's largest producer of hydropower will make the current hydropower more efficient and possibly be able to produce 720 new megawatts, many of which will be pumped-storage power, that is, a new way of storing larger amounts of energy. so i'm optimistic about the future. we need new green energy. we need to be able to store green energy and we definitely need to save energy.
mr president, colleagues, let’s talk the talk so that we can walk the walk. let’s talk about the challenges that the eu and the whole world is facing – attacks on fundamental rights, including on women, lgbtqi and minority rights; dismantling of democracy; violation of international law; climate emergency; poverty and hunger; conflicts. the challenges are many, but human beings created the current situation and therefore we can change it. the agenda 2030 should not be forgotten with its 17 development goals. it is an important toolbox to save humanity. a feminist foreign policy is essential for a gender-equal world, especially during a time the whole world are chanting ‘women, life, freedom!’ let’s not forget the women and girls in iran, afghanistan and different parts of kurdistan. let’s not forget the people of ukraine that are under putin’s attack. let’s not forget the women and children, victims of sexual violence by russian soldiers. and let’s take leadership for a two-state solution between israel and palestine. it is essential, therefore, that we continue supporting both the palestinian authorities and unrwa. defence of international law and fundamental rights must stand at the heart of the eu budget.
mr president, i would like to thank you. people are dying in the mediterranean in desperate search of a way of life, and we, the eu, are allowing it to happen. it doesn't have to be like this. there are alternatives. we could do things that reduce the risk of people putting their lives at risk, that reduce the risk of poverty, that reduce the risk of people being forced to flee. unfortunately, there are politicians and governments, like those in italy and sweden, who want people to believe that their barbed wire policies are an inevitable alternative. that's not true, man. there are alternatives. there are policies based on solidarity with those forced to flee. policies that create the conditions for life. policies that are sustainable in the long term.
mr president, eu minister roswall, after a surge in migrant arrivals, italy has declared a state of emergency. now, is the eu parliament’s migration pact the solution? the tobé report requires that member states pledge to resettle migrants. most of the member states pledged to resettle 8 000 migrants, as you may remember, via the voluntary solidarity mechanism. less than 500 have been relocated. but the tobé report also requires that if the member states’ pledges are too low, the eu commission will decide where to allocate the remaining thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of migrants. let me remind you, dear colleagues: 31 000 arrivals in italy only in 2023, and we’re not even past april. either the member states embrace mass migration or they reject the current migration pact. there is only one way to help italy and save lives at sea: stop the boats.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the deaths in the mediterranean are really the result of the eu's failure to formulate a migration policy that is sustainable for the future. since the 2015 migration crisis, virtually all member states have found temporary solutions that do not solve the problem at its root, where people feel that the only solution is to seek refuge through the irregular routes, which is why we are losing people in the mediterranean. every day that the eu fails to develop a new sustainable system adapted to future migration flows and to ensure a rapid check at the eu's external border is a failure for european cooperation, but it is also what makes people sacrifice their lives in the mediterranean.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, as the chair of the european parliament’s delegation for relations with the republic of iraq, it was an honour to arrange the seventh interparliamentary meeting in baghdad during our mission in march. at this meeting, we took an historic decision for our interparliamentary relations by establishing a joint parliamentary committee, and thereby reaffirmed the mutual interest in upgrading the relationship between the european union and iraq. iraq is an important strategic partner in the middle east, and the eu must continue to support all the iraqi efforts to fight terrorism and improve security. in particular, i want to underline the importance of the eu’s commitment to protect religious and ethnic minorities, not the least christians in iraq. during the mission, we did the first official parliamentary visit to the war-torn city of mosul, which highlighted the oppression that the christian community in iraq had to endure, especially during the years of daesh control over the city. better cooperation is also crucial on the issue of migration. we believe it is of mutual interest to ensure iraq’s territorial integrity and sovereignty and thereby establishing control over the country’s borders. we have hopes that the new reform-oriented al-sudani government will continue the democratic process and combat widespread corruption. the eu has to support many of the pressing challenges facing the iraqi government, such as finding a sustainable understanding with the kurdish regional government and build a diversified economy integrated in the national system. we believe, through this path, the partnership has every opportunity to grow stronger.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, (the speaker reads a poem in a non-official language). i greet your banks from afar. oh, you, the river of tigris. the river of richness and gardens. this is a poem by the great iraqi poet al-jawahiri, who wrote it an exile – a fate that he shared with many oppositional iraqis during the saddam oppression, where they were not able to operate in the country because there was a great risk for their lives, not only their lives, but also their relatives and loved ones. you cannot talk about iraq without also mentioning saddam, because what we are seeing in iraq today is the prolongation of the results of the dictatorship of saddam hussein. it is unfortunate that, time after time, the european union has not been choosing actively to stand by the iraqi people. as was mentioned a moment ago, we didn’t even have a resolution on iraq back in the october uprising in 2019. and this showcases a historical relation that has not been functioning. iraq is a halting democracy, but still it is a democracy. there are periodical elections, even though the turn up to the elections is getting lower and lower. there is a constitution that is written by an elected parliament where you had a referendum and that’s unique for the region and the middle east. but iraq also needs support, not least when it comes to anti-corruption and poverty, fighting against poverty, and reforming the constitution and strengthening the social protection and social programmes for those most vulnerable. and we need to fulfil our commitment, when we promised the iraqi government to pay for the cost of the evacuation of iraqi refugees caught between belarus and poland, and we have to fulfil that promise. but maybe, above all, iraq needs to be treated as an equal partner and a neighbour. and i do hope that the commission will be able to fulfil that commitment and award of recognition of the efforts made by the prime minister of iraq, al-sudani, for his work to create a better and more transparent system in iraq.
madam president, colleagues, peace, security, stability, prosperity, human rights, equality and unity in iraq are vital objectives. the people in the country have suffered for long, previously by a dictator and currently by division. we should also have in mind that the danger posed by isis has not totally vanished. a positive development in iraq is crucial for the people in the country to at last be able to enjoy a decent life beyond war and conflicts. it is also important for peace and stability in the region at large, as well as in the interest of the european union. according to the united nations office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs, 3 million people – among them, 1.3 million children – affected by the protracted conflict continued to need humanitarian assistance and 1.2 million were internally displaced in december 2022. the support by the international community is imperative. we need to support those in need with humanitarian aid, but also backing the country with development support to build democratic, functioning and resilient institutions. fighting corruption and respect for democratic principles are a must for a country that serves the need of the people. for an iraq that stands up for all its population, the iraqi constitution – that clearly emphasises the right of minorities – must be respected. the krg, the kurdistan regional government, should be ensured support by the iraqi central government as well as the european union. it should also be defended by attacks from the neighbouring countries as turkey and iran. the kurds in different parts of kurdistan, including the iraqi part, have led the struggle against isis. they sacrificed their lives also for our freedom here in the european union. to forget that would be one of today’s greatest sins against humanity, because isis was and is one of the biggest threats.
mr president, i would like to thank you. they said that nobody needs me, that i'll have a new family, a russian family. so said a 12-year-old boy who was taken to russia - one of thousands of children estimated to have been taken to russia. children are killed, children are abducted, and women are raped and sexually assaulted. anyone who has committed crimes in russia's war against ukraine must be brought to justice. a year ago, we social democrats initiated a resolution on the protection of children and young people affected by war in the eu. we already called for preventive measures for children at risk of being taken away. we're gonna keep fighting that fight. it's about children's rights and adults' responsibilities. this is about children.
mr president, commissioner, ever since the beginning of the war, more than 16 000 ukrainian children have been abducted and forcibly transferred to russian institutions. the aim is to get children russified and prepared to be adopted by russian families. this attempt of forced russification is indeed part of a wider plan of putin that aims to erase ukrainian identity and amounts to a full-scale war crime. putin is stopping at nothing to destroy ukraine as a nation. one of the darkest pages of our history is repeating itself, and it’s now unfolding before our eyes. this forced displacement of people takes us back to stalin times and the soviet union. the issuance of an arrest warrant on vladimir putin from the icc marks the first step in the right direction towards ending these crimes: accountability and justice. putin must be punished. the eu must stand united and explore all tools at our disposal to take these children back home – home to ukraine, home to europe.
madam president, i would like to thank you. recently, a documentary called dark water was shown in sweden. it is about thousands of people in kallinge in southern sweden who discover that for several years they have been drinking tap water that contained huge amounts of the poisonous perpetual-life chemical pfas. the trail leads across the atlantic to the global chemical giants. the people of kallinge now live in constant fear of developing cancer. a woman says: i will be toxic until i die, but i want to see a change for the sake of my children and grandchildren, if i have any. no one should have to worry about getting cancer from drinking tap water. i will fight for a ban on pfas and demand that the european commission now also submit its proposal for a revised chemicals legislation. the interests of the giants must not be put before the health of the people. and the people of kallinge in southern sweden can't wait.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. i want to highlight a crucial perspective on global health that i'm missing in the strategy. it's about equality. whether you are born a woman or a man will be crucial to your health. gender equality is a matter of life and death. in some lands women now live on average a decade longer than men, but more men than women die by suicide. at the same time, one third of the world's girls are married off before they turn 18. more and more young women are at risk of dying prematurely from unsafe abortions. we also know that the income gap between women and men is widening again. at the present rate of growth, it would take more than 200 years for women to have the same income as men. both the pandemic and the conservative anti-abortion movement have hit hard on the health of girls and women, and it's up to us to take responsibility for reversing that trend. i think that there is a lack of a gender perspective in the eu health strategy. both women and men deserve to live good, free and healthy lives. my country, sweden, has long been a leader in gender equality in the world, and i expect the swedish government and the swedish presidency to do more to highlight the growing inequality in the discussions in the council and with the commission. we can do better.
madam president, the pandemic has shown the critical need to strengthen our global health architecture. the adoption of the eu global health strategy is an important step forward in this regard, and i as deve chair strongly welcome it. there are, however, three crucial points to consider in order to ensure effective implementation of the strategy. firstly, the eu needs to take the lead in strengthening international cooperation in health and ensure that the issue remains at the top of the international agenda. secondly, it is crucial that the european union effectively supports partner countries in strengthening their own health systems. we should pay particular attention to this in the mid-term review on the ndici global europe instrument. and thirdly, we will need more effective funding and sustainable investments in health infrastructure, both from public and private sector. the rapid rollout of the global gateway initiative is crucial in this regard. i welcome the ambition of the swedish presidency to adopt council conclusions on the strategy. this will take us one step closer to making this strategy a reality, which is in the interest of the citizen and the world as a whole.
member of the commission. – mr president, dear members, thank you very much for this very productive discussion. a great deal has been touched upon. i will try to pick up as many of the points as possible. first of all, there was a lot of discussion on what the commission has done in terms of medicine, affordability, availability and access. and we are coming forward with a new package on pharmaceuticals in the coming days. this will also be addressing an issue that was raised by several of you, which has to do with amr, which you are absolutely right. amr is a silent pandemic. we lose over 35 000 lives in the eu every year, and we will be addressing this as well in this package. there were several points raised to do with what we are doing in terms of treating cancer. i’d just like to thank the parliament for the support for europe’s beating cancer plan. there was a one of the meps raising the issue to do with breast cancer and inequality in access of treatment. just to say that for the first time we issued in february the cancer inequalities register, highlighting where in member states and within member states there are differences in access to screening and treatment so that we can give support where it is necessary. of course, health remains a member state competence and we are all aware of that. and tilly metz mep said that we hear many citizens saying that we want more eu action at the level of health and not less, and i wanted to say thank you for the support in this parliament so that now we have strong proposals that have been discussed for the european health union and this is where we can really give support to citizens at its best at the european level. and of course the proof of that – and i think that again, we need to recognise the important work and support of this parliament – is that we had vaccines for covid reaching every citizen of europe at the same time, irrespective of what country they lived in, and that is eu health at its best. mep montserrat and mep walsh mentioned the issues to do with mental health, and you are absolutely correct in saying that this is one of the, i would say, most important issues that we are facing at the moment, not only due to the pandemic. and i wanted to just share with you that we will be coming forward with our first comprehensive strategy on mental health in early june this year. so we are taking an important first step, and that is no less thanks to the important work done in this parliament highlighting this very important issue. now, there were several points raised about vaccine nationalism, vaccines and what we did in terms of the pandemic and global health. and i wanted to say that the global response to the pandemic took place in record time, i believe no small thanks due to the eu leadership, and i believe that a core priority of the global health strategy is to combat current and future health threats. and we call for enhanced equity. and this is very important, and it’s for this reason that we have launched the team europe initiative on manufacturing and access to vaccines and health technologies, mav+, in africa. and we’re also proposing to consider a permanent vaccine countermeasure platform, drawing on the experience of act-a. we have shown that as the eu, we are the pharmacy of the world and that the solidarity during the pandemic was exemplary. and now what we want to do is to work towards a permanent global mechanism to foster this development and equal access to vaccines. now i want to just touch on an issue that was raised about the eu, the observer status in the who. formal observer status is our concrete political objective. full membership is aspirational. it would necessitate a modification of the who constitution, but the observer status would not lead to any implications. its political importance is obvious. it shows that team europe’s value to global health will now be showing its worth and the eu will be a meaningful actor on the world stage. there are no legal obstacles. and i wanted to tell you that dr tedros confirmed this to us during the event when we presented the commission communication on the eu global health strategy to the who. so to obtain eu observer status in the un general assembly, this could be done in the form of a simple resolution. there were some issues raised on the issue to do with sexual and reproductive rights in the context of the global health strategy, and we do see that there is a pushback against sexual and reproductive health worldwide. we must uphold the eu’s strong commitment to the sexual and reproductive rights of women and girls. these commitments are central to our global health strategy and, of course, the eu is very firmly committed to that. there were issues to do with universal health coverage, and of course we must lead with this, putting the eu first. and i just wanted to say that we will be working very strongly towards this in the global health strategy. we also need to work to reverse the tide and regain the lost ground for the universal health targets in the 2030 sustainable development goals. we need to focus our firepower on strengthening our health systems, on universal health coverage, on primary healthcare, on public health and health determinants, on fixing the workforce imbalances – i know that you’re very aware of those – and paying particular attention to women and children and those in vulnerable situations. and last but not least, the issue to do with funding – i apologise, i am over time, but there were many points raised. effective funding is a key element to the global health strategy and we have already looked at the way that we will be funding this and the eu financial contribution, and we will be working with the european development bank and the bank for reconstruction and development to develop a framework for global health financing. this needs to be aligned with our priorities and those of our partner countries. i have tried to cover as many points as possible, but i just wanted to end by saying that we saw the difference that team europe can make and has made during the pandemic in the difficult times that europe has been through and is going through. and with our global health strategy, we will be stepping up, because health is really the basis of the well—being of our citizens and for the stability of our economies and our societies. thank you once again for a very constructive discussion.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, the swedish presidency is sparing no efforts to ensure a renewed and ambitious approach to global health by the eu and its member states. our reflection on the global health strategy focuses on three priorities: deliver better health and well—being for people across the life course, strength the health system and universal health coverage, and prevent and combat health threats. as was raised in the debate, the swedish presidency is also raising the issue of gender equality in the council conclusions. our goal is that the eu show proactive leadership based on mutually—beneficial partnerships, engagement of all relevant sectors, clear priorities and a ‘team europe’ approach. the new eu global health strategy and the upcoming council conclusions will be instrumental tools to achieve these objectives. so thank you very much for an interesting debate and, once again, thank you for your attention.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the general decriminalisation of homosexuality, in the light of recent developments in uganda (2023/2643 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, the european union and the member states are deeply concerned by the passing of an anti-homosexuality bill by the uganda parliament, which introduces severe punishment for same—sex intimacy, including the death penalty. these concerns have been conveyed to members of the ugandan government and parliament during the process of adoption of this bill. bilaterally, several eu member states have also expressed their strong concerns with the consequences of this law. the criminalisation of homosexuality is contrary to international law and violates the enjoyment of human rights by lgbti persons. it reinforces and legitimises existing stereotypes, increases the risk of stigmatisation, discrimination and violence, and can make lgbti persons more vulnerable to human rights violations and abuses. article 1 of the universal declaration of human rights states that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights, and 2023 marks its 75th anniversary. equality and non-discrimination are core values enshrined in the eu treaties and in the charter of fundamental rights. the european union is committed to fighting all forms of discrimination, including on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity, and continues to actively promote and protect the human rights of lgbti persons, as prime minister bettel of luxembourg so strongly reminded us today in his speech here in the chamber. it is important to recall that the african union also shares these values, and that the african union commission condemned violence and other human rights violations based on sexual orientation and gender identity. the eu will continue to work constructively with partners in africa to counteract and denounce all discriminatory laws, policy and practices, including the criminalisation of consenting same—sex relations and, in particular, the use of the death penalty, torture or ill treatment in this respect. the human rights of lgbti persons remain part of the eu’s diplomacy efforts in bilateral relations and in multilateral fora. the eu will continue to work with and support civil society organisations working for increased respect for human rights, including those protecting and promoting the enjoyment of human rights by lgbti persons. i’m looking forward to this debate, but thank you for the attention.
member of the commission. – president, honourable members of the european parliament, let me start off by appreciating the long—standing and broad—based partnership the eu has with uganda, including in the areas of private sector development, the green transition and good governance. we recognise uganda’s contribution to regional security, including providing sanctuary for the more than 1.5 million refugees in the country, as well as the continuous contribution of troops to amisom – now atmis – to provide security in somalia. we also recall our excellent collaboration in addressing the ebola outbreak in 2022. we look forward to cooperating with uganda in the implementation of the recently—adopted council conclusions on the great lakes strategy, as well as enhancing bilateral and regional economic cooperation through the economic partnership agreements, and we are considering a strategic partnership on critical raw materials. our important partnership with uganda only emphasises our serious concerns regarding the anti—homosexuality bill. immediately after its announcement, there have been numerous contacts and démarches from the eu towards the government, parliament and the president expressing our concern and reconsideration of the bill. at the end of march, the head of the eu delegation and the italian ambassador met in private with president museveni to discuss the anti-homosexuality bill and the eu’s continued concerns with the promulgation of the law. if the anti-homosexuality bill is signed into law, uganda will seriously undermine its international and continental human rights obligations. it is important to recall that the eu is opposed to the death penalty in all circumstances. the eu strongly encourages uganda to reconsider the anti—homosexuality bill and believes that the ugandan government and lawmakers should engage in dialogue with all sectors of society to foster a greater sense of tolerance towards the rights of all people to live free from fear, regardless of their sexual orientation or gender identity. the bill calls into question uganda as a country where rights and freedoms are guaranteed to all citizens – an essential feature not only of an open and democratic society, but also an environment conducive to business and foreign investment.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, commissioner, minister, the extreme anti-lgbti legislation adopted by the parliament of uganda is unacceptable. it is horrible, and the european union must do more than simply express its deep concern and condemn these types of laws. for uganda in particular, we need to be ready to take concrete action if the law is signed into force. i have three concrete questions for the commission from the epp group: firstly, will the commission make further development aid conditional upon uganda upholding fundamental freedom and human rights? secondly, is the commission considering imposing any other measures if the anti—lgbti legislation is signed into force? and thirdly, what measures is the commission taking through its development cooperation to better protect lgbti people and decriminalise homosexuality around the globe? you need to make it absolutely clear that the european union will never, never accept anti—lgbti legislation, or any type of legislation that violates human rights and fundamental freedoms for that matter. let there be no doubt: action must have consequences.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the attacks on lgbtq people in uganda are an attack on human rights and freedoms. love should be free and no one should ever be forced to refrain from expressing their feelings for another human being. life in prison for expressing love to another human being is actually beyond comprehension. in uganda, it even carries the death penalty in some cases. attacks on lgbtq people and human rights defenders are atrocious. stone age mentality belongs in the trash, not in the legislation. wherever lgbtq people and human rights defenders are under attack, it is our responsibility to increase support for them. we must review our agreements with countries where we see a decline, and respect for lgbtq rights must be at the heart of both eu domestic and foreign policy. we have to end the witch-hunt on lgbtq people once and for all. and to my friend sam muyizzi, who lives in uganda and is a human rights defender, i want to say: "your freedom is our freedom".
mr president, i would like to thank you. uganda's new bill punishes love with death. the crime they committed is to be who they are and love who they want. the law must be repealed, and the persecution of lgbtq people in uganda must end. our condemnations have stopped similar laws before, and it must be our default mode - now more than ever - that when the human rights of lgbtq people are violated, we protest, loudly. and when the death penalty is used against lgbtq people, in uganda and around the world, it should have tangible consequences for those in power. but if words are to be beautiful, we must also offer protection to persecuted people. the eu should be a safe haven where lgbtq people can live in freedom.
author. – mr president, this topic is very serious. the taliban have banned girls from returning to secondary schools and universities, depriving an entire generation of proper education. today, we are pointing out the taliban’s unkept promise that girls and women’s access to education would be restored. afghanistan is now the only country in the world which refuses to allow women and girls to be educated beyond primary level, and this recent decision reflects the taliban’s goal to have women and girls locked up in their homes. this medieval attitude deserves our strongest condemnation and firm action from the eu. the taliban’s systematic violation of the rights of women and girls since 2021 may even amount to crimes against humanity, according to the un. therefore, we call on the eu to hold the perpetrators of these grave violations accountable, including by sanctions. at the same time, we ask the eu and the member states to increase support to afghan groups providing education to women and girls. the eu should support alternative education options both online and via community education. young girls belong in schools, on an equal footing with boys. girls’ rights are human rights.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. putin's claws are getting longer and longer and pushing deeper and deeper. while he is currently committing crimes against humanity in ukraine, he is trying to stifle the silence of the opposition in russia. the sentence against human rights defender vladimir kara-murza and the treatment of democracy defender alexei navalny are abhorrent. i admire the democracy and human rights fighters in this country, who stand up to a tyrant like putin. at the risk of their lives, they refuse to be silenced. but our admiration is not enough. we must also act in their defence. we must support the opposition and impose sanctions on those who are constantly violating human rights and freedoms in putin's regime. and the political prisoners must be released immediately.
writer. president. - the debate is closed. yahaya sharif-aminu has been sentenced to death for sharing an audio message deemed to be insulting to the muslim prophet mohammed. the european parliament has previously condemned death sentences for blasphemy, for example when a christian couple were accused of sending blasphemous text messages. the view of blasphemy has wide application in sharia. blasphemy charges are levelled against people for refusing to join jihad or condemning stoning in sudan, starting girls' schools in bangladesh, criticising the mullahs in iran, calling for contextual interpretation of the koran in indonesia or calling for a ban on child marriage in yemen. the eu must make a mark against nigeria. but the eu must also point out that when islamists want us to conform to their view of blasphemy, we must sacrifice our freedom of speech. if we do, it's just the beginning. then not only will the eu's voice be silenced for yahaya sharif-aminu and others who are victims of islamic extremism we will also have more victims of these blasphemy charges in europe. remember lars vilks! he was a great guy.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the eu's afforestation regulation is intended to promote sustainable forest management and reduce climate emissions, but will have many unintended negative consequences. this is an expensive and inefficient way of reducing emissions. companies that do not comply with the requirements will instead sell to other regions. the regulation increases the regulatory burden on companies that are supposed to secure supply chains, which also requires even more government officials. smallholder farmers are excluded from the market with negative economic and social consequences in developing countries. many countries consider this to be nothing less than a protectionist measure and an attempt to dictate their domestic policy. the regulation could also trigger trade disputes with resource-rich countries on which eu countries depend for, for example, metals for electric cars. if i were a leftist, i would call this a colonial decree, and i would not be wrong, because that is the truth.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the social democrats claim to be strict on migration policy but today when we voted on how the eu commission will spend the budget next year, the social democrats voted against our demands for funding physical border barriers, against conditional aid with effective implementation of return agreements and against criticism of clowns without borders' million-dollar contribution to integrating lone afghans in sweden through pajas and circus activities. the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. usually resolutions calling for increased spending are passed by a north korean majority and only a few budgetary hooks like the sweden democrats are in the memorandum. not today, no. the social democrats have a principle they never violate, no matter what they claim: open the borders.
the lady! the resolution we adopted today on the anti-discrimination directive, drawn up by the environmentalist alice bah kuhnke among others, is so flawed that it is astonishing. the authors of the proposal argue that discrimination is increasing in the union. bring the evidence! they want to push through a decision before the end of the year, which is completely unrealistic. they have been swallowed up by their commitment and are proposing measures which are contrary to the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. most important of all: they want to circumvent the normal treaty procedure which requires unanimity by using the transitional clause, the passerelle. then you can go around the parliament. it has never been used, and if it were to be used now it would set a precedent for even more transfers of power. in addition, they unjustifiably want to extend other directives which were never intended to be used in this context. there is certainly no discrimination, but it should not be used as an excuse to give the eu more power. the moderates should know that. unfortunately, they're choosing to sign the green party as a goodwill gesture. we're not going to.
that concludes the item.
the next sitting is tomorrow, thursday, 20 april 2023 at 9.00. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament website.
the minutes of this sitting will be submitted to parliament for its approval tomorrow at the beginning of the afternoon.
before we move on to the agenda, i have an announcement: mrs francesca peppucci has been a member of the political group of the european people's party since 20 april 2023.
the first item on the agenda concerns the commission statement on the ipcc report on climate change: a call for urgent additional action (2023/2645 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, dear members, a few weeks ago, on 20 march, the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) concluded its sixth assessment cycle with the release of the report. this report provides the consolidated state of knowledge on the science of climate change and summarises the key findings of this eight—year—long cycle with an ultimate warning. there is still time to ensure a livable future for humans and nature, on the condition of urgent, more ambitious climate action. the ipcc reports are the most comprehensive and authoritative assessments on the science of climate change. hundreds of scientists have been contributing to the assessment of the available scientific literature. over this cycle, 10 000 pages of scientific assessment have been provided through six reports covering all aspects of climate science, including the options and solutions for mitigating climate change and adapting to the expected impacts of climate change. the impact of eu—funded research outputs in ipcc reports is remarkable, as eu—funded references account for about 10% of the total references provided, which puts the eu in second position after the united states on this criteria. this shows that eu investment in excellent science through horizon 2020 and horizon europe is impactful. the science delivered is clear and unequivocal. the synthesis report, which is the most read for all politicians and policymakers, confirms once again that the world is warming rapidly due to human influence, and this is already causing widespread adverse impacts to people and nature, putting lives and livelihoods at risk, especially for the most vulnerable. the only way to halt global warming and lessen impacts of climate change is by bringing greenhouse gas emissions to net zero. limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees requires radical action at the global level with unprecedented efforts across countries and economic sectors. currently, the world is not on track to reach the paris agreement temperature targets, and the window of opportunity for that is rapidly closing. only deep, rapid and sustained reduction in greenhouse gas emissions at global level would lead to a discernible slowdown in global warming in the foreseeable future. this message contained in the summary for policymakers, which i encourage all to read, has been discussed and endorsed by the member governments of the ipcc, including the european union as an observer organisation. it comes ahead of cop 28 of the un climate convention and the conclusion of the first global stocktake exercise of the climate convention, giving another opportunity to parties to enhance their action. our ability to avoid the worst impacts depends fundamentally on two major ranges of actions: emissions reductions and adaptation efforts. on the one hand, the report’s findings clearly reinforce the rationale underpinning the eu’s objective to become climate neutral by 2050. with the fit for 55 proposals of july 2021 and agreement on the climate proposals over recent months, the eu has taken decisive action to achieve its at least 55 net emission reduction target by 2030 and be on track towards climate neutrality in the eu by 2050. the eu needs to push ahead with implementation of this ambitious package to keep showing others around the world that ambitious climate action is possible. on the other hand, the report also confirms that climate change is here to stay and that some of its effects are unavoidable, even under the most ambitious mitigation scenarios. this underscores the importance of adaptation, where the eu is stepping up its efforts under the climate law and the eu adaptation strategy. even if steep global emissions reductions start now, the world will continue to warm for decades, and we will continue to feel the impacts of past emissions. mitigation and adaptation action in the world has increased during the last decade, but the action is still too slow, fragmented and unsystematic. we need to do more to shift global investment flows and consumption patterns for a transition towards climate—neutral and sustainable development. delaying action means scarce resources spent on unsustainable investments that lock us into more pollution and miss important opportunities to modernise our economies, increasing the challenges we face. the less we do now, the more we need to do in the coming decades, a higher cost to all. we must do everything possible to accelerate and enhance mitigation and adaptation with much more political courage. the decisions and actions we take over this decade will have intergenerational impacts over centuries. many of the impacts are already irreversible. just one example: global sea level is increasing due to human—induced climate change and will continue to rise under all emission scenarios, putting coastal communities at risk. however, we can and must reduce the rate of this increase to limit future impacts as much as possible. we share common objectives. science does provide workable and affordable solutions. what we need now is political will and coherent policies that deliver in moving our society forward in a fair and just manner.
for the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. there's a lot of clarity that you don't need to read between the lines. the un climate panel is one such text. more needs to be done in international climate action. but research not only helps us understand the problems we face but also points to the solutions that are available. copernicus released a report the other day showing that europe is warming faster than the other continents. they point to last summer's drought, forest fires and so on, and say that it has a real impact on our climate and that we are now breaking record after record, but not in the way we would like to be the best in europe. that is why i find it quite strikingly odd that there are groups in this house that continue to oppose solutions that we need to put in place to effectively work towards achieving climate goals and countering the developments that we see in the climate field today. but every time we talk about enabling new technologies, for example carbon capture, which the ipcc also shows is a necessity to reach climate goals, they get in the way - it was shown as recently as this week when we discussed and voted on sustainable carbon cycles. the same goes for biomass, for example, which is also a resource that the ipcc has identified as essential: time and again we see how colleagues in this parliament do everything possible to undermine the role of biomass in the transition. in my party, the moderates, we are clear: all power is needed. this is also opposed by other political groups, and i think it is a mistake. we believe that in the present situation it is irresponsible to want to close the door to all the resources and technologies available. we're gonna need all the solutions, and we can't afford to say no to anyone.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the ipcc is saying, as it is, that if we don't accelerate the pace of transition quickly, we're headed for a climate collapse. we politicians have to take responsibility and do what is necessary. in the wake of the ipcc report, un secretary-general antonio guterres has called on the world's largest emitters - the us, china and the eu - to take greater responsibility, even greater responsibility. the commission replied that the eu must continue to tighten up our climate targets, and that is a good thing. fit for 55 is a historic step in the right direction. but we know this is just the beginning. we must look ahead to the eu's climate targets by 2040 now, and there is no time to wait. we have a concrete opportunity to act already at cop 28 this autumn, and the resolution for cop 28 that we are going to put forward must send a clear signal to the commission to keep up the pace and put forward really concrete proposals that can reduce emissions in the near future. i really look forward to this work, and the eu must continue to show leadership in climate change and be a strong global player. it's about the future of our children and grandchildren and it's urgent now.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in fact, the sixth report of the un panel on climate change can be summed up in a single sentence: the situation is worse than in the previous reports. that's actually what's been in every report from the un climate panel. i've been following them all for over 30 years. why is that? well, there are two reasons. one is that research is advancing. we're discovering new details, such as the fragility, the destabilization of the great glaciers, greenland, west antarctica, that will cause the world's oceans to rise both faster and more than the scientific world previously thought. but above all, it is due to the lack of policy in the world, including here in the european parliament. the conservative group, the liberal group and the social democrats, which could raise the ambitions, do not. we're going to fit for 55 when we should have had a 70 percent ambition in the climate bill. that's what the research showed then, and what the research shows now is that we need to quickly raise ambition and become climate neutral absolutely by 2040.
mr president, i would like to thank you. since 1970, the year i was born, the temperature has risen faster than at any time in the past 2,000 years. no one can read the latest ipcc report and continue to deny that we are facing a climate crisis. we have no one to blame but ourselves. it's no longer enough to talk in small groups, brainstorm ideas. we have to act now. adapting to climate change may reduce risks, but it does not solve the problems. we need to get the emissions down. we in the rich west bear the greatest historical responsibility, and that obliges us. that is why we must go ahead, show leadership and support those who have the growth opportunity ahead of them. europe has done a lot, but not enough. it will cost to do so, but the price of inaction is infinitely higher. the courageous decisions we have taken in this parliament this week are just the beginning.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the world has experienced in recent years larger, more unexpected and more unwanted crises than in a long, long time. cohesion policy has proved to be a very powerful tool in this respect, bringing great benefits to the citizens of europe. flexibility from this house and from the commission has enabled us to use cohesion policy in many unexpected - and sometimes unwanted - ways. but the result has been that it's worked, and we've discovered new ways to get the most and the most value out of this money. in preparation for the next programming period, it is now important that we evaluate: what's been good, what's been bad? but we must bear in mind what is perhaps the most important lesson: that there must be flexibility. there has to be a thought, but there has to be a flexibility. this will enable us to make the most of this important resource and ensure that we can create an even better and more cohesive europe and european union for the benefit of our citizens, but also for the benefit of the global family.
madam president, dear colleagues, the proposals of the migration pact, as they are, as they were accepted in the libe committee, will evidently not solve the migration crisis or the problem in europe. on the contrary, they will create a worse situation than what we have right now. they will create an additional pull factor for migrants, and that’s why we need a fundamentally new approach. colleagues on the left keep talking about saving lives and making sure that people don’t die while trying to cross the mediterranean sea. well, the only way to do that is to make sure that they don’t start to come in the first place, that those boats never leave the coasts of africa. what we need to do that is the re-establishment, or establishment, of border control; we have to make sure that those who have no right to stay are immediately returned to where they came from. we have to return to legality and we have to observe our own rules and laws. that’s the only way forward. that’s why we say that this pact is completely unsuitable to solve this issue. and i’m asking you, colleagues, to vote against this proposal. if you want a real solution to the migration crisis, you need a new approach. you have to forget using methods that have proven to be unsuitable and bad for this thing. we need legality. we need to respect the borders, defend the borders and accomplish a european policy that supports border control. that’s the way to show solidarity towards our fellow europeans. we have to make sure the commission funds, for example, border control efforts, including fences. and we have to make sure that borders are protected. that’s the way forward.
rapporteur. – madam president, colleagues, europe has faced migration crisis after migration crisis, and after years of political deadlock we now have a historic possibility to move forward. most of us understand that if we have a common border, we also need more common migration policy. we need to build trust between the member states and also among citizens in europe. i would like to thank the shadows for what we have achieved, and i would like to urge all colleagues from all political groups – also within ecr and id – to support this mandate so we can send a strong signal to the council that we are ready.
madam president, dear colleagues, this proposed pact is not equipped to deal with today’s migratory pressure, let alone higher numbers of future arrivals. by working with the left, mr tobé’s report removes instruments necessary to combat illegal migration, retains forced solidarity and reinforces pull factors. don’t take my word for it: swedish greens celebrated the inclusion of their ‘broader concept of family reunification’ and the removal of aid becoming conditional on reducing migration. this pact’s solution is to force member states to accept migrants against their will. dear colleagues, either we embrace mass migration or reject this deal. that is the choice. in scandinavia there is a new normal: liberals, the centre—right and conservatives work together to deliver durable migration policies. dear colleagues from the epp and renew: yes, it is true, we do not accept migrant quotas dictated from brussels, but we stand here with our hands outstretched, ready to cooperate on delivering future—proof solutions. we need to secure the external borders, utilise the external dimension to prevent and disincentivise illegal migration and relocate the entire asylum system to third—country reception centres. madam president, dear colleagues, europe’s future is at stake. vote no!
madam president, colleagues, it’s essential that we ensure that all our finances are used in a correct way. no single cent should go where it shouldn’t go to and every single cent should go to the purpose. all our efforts should therefore go to ensuring this. however, i am amazed how some people in this parliament has made it their purpose in life to spread disinformation and year after year bring the same issues up; every year, the same issues related to unrwa and the palestinian authorities are put on the table. even when they have received an eu-funded independent report as the one by georg eckert institute that clearly contradicts their claims, they don’t give up. i seriously wonder if they really want to see a peaceful two-state solution or they are trying to undermine it through weakening the palestinian authorities, through freezing the support. there is, of course, a lot we should demand from the palestinian side as well as from the israeli side, but to weaken the palestinian authority will for sure not lead to a peaceful two-state solution. colleagues, i hope we are more people in this parliament that want to see a peaceful two—state solution than those struggling for polarisation.
president of the court of auditors. – madam president, just a few short words. first of all, on the last point by mr wallace, i think we issued a report very recently on budget galaxy, which is basically about the whole financial landscape of the eu; it’s not just these three bodies, but there are a plethora of other bodies where there are different accountability and transparency arrangements in place. so i would advise that as food for thought or something to read in your spare time. i think what has emanated from the debate here today is that it’s important to acknowledge the challenges which were apparent in 2021. it was a very difficult time, as we all know, and it made it difficult in a way for member states to use all the funding sources which were available to them. they had the mff, they had the rrf, they had the sure instrument and we had other different instruments. i think we have to take into account the context. nonetheless, our role is to make sure that there is proper oversight and accountability for eu funds. i am happy to see the interest of parliamentarians in this process, in the discharge procedure, by the number of interventions, and i think it shows clearly that we all have our own specific roles to play in ensuring the proper financial management of the budget. in that context, i think we are a key component of the institutional framework of the eu. we’ve a role to ensure proper oversight. as the eu’s independent external auditor, our core values are independence, integrity and objectivity. we work based on these values with the aim of improving accountability, transparency and financial management with the objective – and this is the key objective – of enhancing citizens’ trust and also providing assurance to you as legislators so that better informed decisions can be made.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you to all of you for this final exchange of views before they vote on discharge tomorrow. the discharge process allows us to learn from the past in order to improve for the future, not least thanks to the thorough exchanges of views organised by the committee on budgetary control and its chair. clear and simple rules remain the best way to guarantee the sound financial management of european union spending. as we know, 75 % of the errors usually detected are related to different views about what is eligible and what is not eligible. the commission has therefore continued its efforts to simplify rules and raise knowledge of beneficiaries with communication campaigns, workshops and guidance. and i expect this is shared by everybody inside and outside the room. the commission will also continue working together with its partners, especially member states and national authorities, on the shared management to address the weaknesses identified and take preventive measures such as sharing good practices, providing guidance and training to the management, control and audit structures in member states. whenever necessary, of course, the commission will not hesitate to have recourse to corrective mechanisms. concerning the implementation of the recovery and resilience facility in 2021, the commission will continue to promote a better understanding of this new instrument. it’s a different one in nature and legislation than the traditional ones, such as cohesion policy, and therefore uncharted water still for many. that is why i believe it is too premature to speculate already today about the discharge outcome of 2022. moving forward, we will continue to involve all relevant stakeholders and we will also maintain close engagement with the european parliament and the council for a successful implementation of the facility. i would like to reassure you of the commission’s continuous commitment to work together with the european parliament in ensuring adequate protection of the european union’s financial interests and values. so i am grateful for the cooperative, constructive and positive spirit between the institutions involved in the discharge debate. having said this, this year, i would like to use the opportunity to thank the president of the european court of auditors, tony murphy, for supporting our engagement with ukraine in the area of budgetary protection and sound financial management. he was already referring to a joint mission organised by us and accompanied by a member of the court, and i think it was an extremely useful mission also for our joint work in the future because i think we should have every interest to support ukraine in the future, but also to keep this high level of solidarity we can see still amongst the member states and their citizens. but for this it is important to reassure them that the financial interests of european taxpayers are also protected in ukraine, of course, acknowledging the different circumstances they are just living in.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, president of the european court of auditors, allow me to conclude once again by thanking you for your thorough work on the discharge. this is a very important exercise. it is about transparency, democratic legitimacy, and being accountable to our citizens. it gives the true measures on the way the european funds are implemented and managed. i will also take this opportunity to thank the commission, the court of auditors and all the management and audit authorities at the national level for their efforts in this sense. moreover, i would like to highlight some of parliament’s and the council’s common views in this field. first, parliament and the council both call on the court and the commission to continue the assessment of the eu budget’s performance, which is a measure of the true value delivered to eu citizens. second, parliament and the council also share the view that complex rules may lead to more errors. therefore, we support further efforts to identify and simplify burdensome rules and procedures. but of course we cannot lower standards and requirements needed for accountability. our common goal is to make sure that the eu budget provides added value for our citizens and that eu money is well spent. again, i would like to underline, just like many of you have stated today, that this point is vital to maintain the trust and confidence of our citizens for the european project, and especially on this special day, we cannot emphasise this enough.
rapporteur. – madam president, thank you to all the colleagues for a very long but very interesting debate. listening to everybody, i can only draw one conclusion really, and that is that we all share a very shared commitment: a commitment to the eu budget, to making sure that the european budget is spent in an appropriate way and making sure that we have the best added value with european funding. i think also the discharge of the commission that we will vote on tomorrow needs to be read in that light. there are many suggestions, many recommendations; it is our job to scrutinise what the commission is doing in order to make sure that we end up in that shared commitment to protect the european budget. and i welcome commissioner hahn’s commitment to also, as he expressed today, everything the commission is doing to bring down the error rate, to simplify rules in order to avoid risks. we, as a european parliament, will continue to support you in that procedure and to make sure that we can make improvements together. when it comes to the future, there is one thing that i would like to highlight as well, and i would mention the recast of the financial regulation and the negotiating position adopted in this house. and i hope and i count on the council to also negotiate with us in a constructive spirit to better protect the eu budget, particularly through increased transparency. it really needs to happen now. now the discharge will be voted tomorrow and then it will be concluded. but the process of scrutiny, of course, continues also far beyond that. and i would like to thank once again also president murphy and everybody at the european court of auditors for their very important role and the support to our work here in the european parliament. it has been much appreciated. i would just like to echo the words that, president murphy, you concluded your last intervention with, and that is that it is all about improving accountability, transparency and financial management – this is the commitment of everybody i have heard speaking here today and let’s put that into practice also for the upcoming years.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i have all the pages now, because i did not mention the minister's wife. i would like to thank you very much for coming, because it is not always the case that we have female ministers here. i am not going to go into detail. first of all, i would like to make a couple of comments on the corona reconstruction fund. firstly, mr commissioner, we will also have to deal with the subject of future financial instruments of a similar nature planned by the commission, the subject of the time gap. we will have to make it clear that it is not possible to get funds for any reform and then leave it in the budget of the member state for a period of five years, and then, perhaps five years later, make an investment at some point. it was not intended to be that way, especially if we have to take on debt for it, because we have to pay interest on it in the budget. secondly, if emergency instruments are created, then the member states will also have to spend these funds consistently. unfortunately, our experience in spain shows that of the 41 billion that have arrived there so far, only perhaps some 4 to 5 billion at most have actually reached the companies in the regions concerned. that's something the time delay makes clear. at the same time, we are now facing such large delays in the cohesion fund as we have never had before. that is why we will have to discuss this matter in depth again. sometimes i also get the impression that these milestones and targets and goals are more like moving sand dunes than they are actually fixed stations. i should like to say a few words on a personal note about what my colleague, mr freund, has done to the other colleagues. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we will respect the law and not populism in the so-called pension fund, which covers the years when there was no pension entitlement for members. that means that the bureau must act according to the law and not according to how we populists best move forward. i think that's the way to approach it.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. representatives of the european commission! to sum up this debate, i would like to say that firstly, and to put it bluntly, there are a number of issues that should not be in the discharge report at all, and the report, of course, on the european commission. it is a question of the conditionality mechanism, because it is very political in nature. i think that in reports on purely financial matters, it's not a good idea to insert such political flowery things, because it reduces the quality of the content. secondly, following the rapporteur's opinion, the opinion of the court of auditors, it must be said that there is a clear lack of transparency in several areas concerning the controls carried out by the european commission. first of all, it's the covid-related expenses. i don't want to talk about the peripherals of president von der leyen, you know what they are. secondly, it is the funding of non-governmental organisations (ngos). finally, thirdly, the use of external consultants. this is a huge amount of money. there is also the issue of delays in the implementation of commitments and the launch of new programmes, as well as the chaotic implementation of the mff. this is a matter of a high administrative burden on member states - which is of course not to be liked - and an unclear and inconsistent methodology for verifying the achievement of milestones. there are concerns about the correct implementation of the only payment verified by the court. what is also missing is a careful analysis of the impact of eu climate spending, which is perhaps of particular interest to our taxpayers and voters. i have the impression that the commission is not doing that - with all due respect to the member states who are here - effectively protecting the financial interests of the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as regards the next steps, i would like to call for more planning, more visibility for this fund and for results that are even more positive. these funds require multiannual plans that can provide predictability and stability. and they require another word: engagement. involvement of beneficiaries, of those who will also implement the funds of local and regional authorities. in this respect, it is also important, and i insist, that the private sector should be involved, so that we can have not only subsidies but also loans for the purpose of development. the european union, which is the world's largest donor, which is the biggest contributor to development, must maintain this priority for the economies that need it most, with the aim of also reducing poverty. and i welcome the fact that the european development fund is increasingly being used for education and vocational training. that is how we can give hope to the young people and, in particular, to the young people of the african continent. right now, in africa, we have 1.2 billion people. by 2050, it will be twice that, 2.5 billion. the average age will be about 21 years, a very young population. we have an obligation to give them hope and to enable them to live in their territory, in the land they love.
this conversation is over. the vote will be taken tomorrow.
this is a general session. the s&d group has notified the president of its decision on the changes to the appointments of members of the committee. this decision shall be entered in the minutes of this meeting and shall enter into force on the day of its notification.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. recommendation: the eu's accession to the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence: the institutions and public administration of the union (a9-0169/2023) recommendation: kohut and kokalari eu accession to the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence: judicial cooperation in criminal matters, asylum and return ban (a9-0170/2023)
rapporteur. – madam president, it is time for the eu to take an historic decision and take the most important gender equality step in many, many years – it is finally to ratify the istanbul convention. because every day, women in europe are murdered because of the violence that they suffer from their partner. every week, more than 50 women are murdered in their own homes. every third woman and girl in the eu has experienced physical or sexual violence, and 85% of all violent and sexual crimes are never reported to the police. this is 2023, and it is still happening. after almost ten years of pushing from the european parliament from this house, now the ratification of the istanbul convention will finally raise the standard in combating and preventing gender—based violence across europe. this means that we will be better in coordinating the necessary measures in the eu. we will be better in collecting data on how the situation is in every member state. we will strengthen the judicial cooperation, share the best practices between countries and the eu will have a new role in monitoring how well the convention is being implemented. this is big. at the same time, in this historic decision, we are sending a clear political message that europe has zero tolerance on violence against women. it is needed because women’s rights are restricted around the world and the oppression and the violence have increased. i also have another message. i want to send my strongest call to those remaining member states, those six remaining member states in the eu, to also individually ratify the istanbul convention. it is time for you to stand on the right side of history and to support women’s rights to life free from violence. because fighting violence against women is about standing up for women’s freedom. it is about defending the fundamental rights and equality in europe. this is what europe is about. this is what this house is about, that we are a union of freedom, so let’s defend it all the way.
madam president, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. i can continue until i reach over 50 before i stop, because that’s how many women that are killed in domestic violence in europe every week. that is how many lives that are extinguished every day. their crime: just because they are born female. for all those women and girls and for all survivors, we have a responsibility to prevent, protect and act. it is therefore essential that the eu ratifies the istanbul convention, the first international tool to combat violence against women and domestic violence. i am glad that we have a majority of the member states on board now to ratify some part of the convention. even if i would have hoped that we would have ratified the whole convention, and i hope that we will in the near future be able to do that. there is nothing clearer remaining from the stone age than gender—based violence. all through history, silence has, sometimes even encouragement has, even by people in here, has been the reaction of society. even today, even in our union, violence against women and domestic violence is seen as a family matter by right—wing conservatives, right—wing extremists, and others with stone age mentality. gender—based violence and domestic violence is no family matter. it is a matter of crime, and crime must result in consequences. it is time to end the impunity that exists. as a continuation of the important work on combating gender—based violence and domestic violence, i, together with my co—rapporteur francis fitzgerald, look also forward to also adopt a strong directive on the area this summer. today, we celebrate the first steps that are taken, and tomorrow we continue taking further steps until we end this heinous violence against women and girls across our whole union.
madam president, i would like to thank you. they say the most dangerous place for a woman is in her own home. it should be said that there are no safe spaces for women at all. it's sick that we've gotten used to this, that headline after headline about murdered women doesn't lead to mass protests. it is equally unbelievable that it is women who do the most to work against men's violence against women. it is women who are driving this issue politically, it is women who are debating, who are demonstrating, who are shouting, that this has to end. where are all the men who think it's too fucked up to have women hated, threatened, abused and killed? the eu's commitment to the istanbul convention is a big deal. the eu wants to combat and monitor the work against male violence against women. now we must make sure that those words become reality.
blue-card question. – madam president, i think it’s tragic that on the extreme right side there are a bunch of men who are telling us women that the istanbul convention doesn’t have any effect on our lives, on saving our lives, while on this side, on the left and centre side, on the bench, we are a bunch of women and allies who are clearly saying we need to do everything that we can to save women and girls all around the union. have you thought about how come that you think on the extreme right side that you know best what women need?
madam president, i would like to thank you. the istanbul convention was established in 2011, but the eu has yet to ratify it. some call it historic. i call it a scandal that we have not come any further. how difficult can it be to ratify a convention that is about protecting women and girls from all forms of violence? we have member states which are not yet ready to do this. bulgaria, the czech republic, hungary, latvia, lithuania and slovakia, you should be ashamed of yourselves, just as you should be ashamed of yourselves on the nationalist right-wing benches! i would like to say to our danish colleague that danish-born men also beat and rape their wives. that is why it is so important that we get the convention in place and ratified, but also that we get a directive in place, so that we can tell girls and women in the eu that we are taking our responsibility. you should be able to live a life free from violence and abuse.
member of the commission. – madam president, i want to really thank all the participants. it was a really impressive amount of speakers for this debate. i do not only thank you for speaking, but also for your work, because we are here where we are today, even thanks to your work. but also, listening to this debate strengthens my resolve in working harder and harder on the issue of violence against women, because i continued to learn here, during this discussion, that there definitely needs to be more dialogue on this issue because we could see the divergence of views on an issue where we have the numbers of women who are killed every day because of violence against women or because of domestic violence. this is not only in europe; this is around the world. so we are speaking about a fact. so really, i think we must engage more in a dialogue whereby we work together, really together, all of us, against this scourge. violence affects women’s well—being and prevents women from fully participating in society, be it socially, be it economically, be it politically. and violence against women is tied to gender stereotypes and gender inequality. and it happens to women from all walks of life and in all of its spheres. the istanbul convention is the most far—reaching international treaty, specifically designed to tackle this violation of women’s human rights. making the istanbul convention an integral part of the eu legal framework will support our efforts to make a life free from violence a reality for all women in the eu. so i count on the continued support of this house to make full use of this instrument.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear colleagues, i want to thank you all for a very good and long debate with a lot of emotions. i take note of two things in this debate. firstly is that we still have those myths that surround the istanbul convention that come from an anti—european agenda, from russian propaganda that wants to destabilise europe, spread by some parties here in this house. i also note another more important thing: what big support the istanbul convention and the fight for the freedom of women have in the european union and in this house, from the biggest political forces across europe. i want to thank especially my co—rapporteur, łukasz kohut. it’s been a pleasure to work with you. i want to thank the swedish presidency that helped us get through the istanbul convention in the council. we would not have made it without them. and also the commission, which has always been supporting the istanbul convention. it’s when we work together, when we unite our forces, that europe becomes better, europe becomes freer and safer, and our citizens can have a better and free life. this is something that we should cherish – our cooperation and our unity. so thank you all for this good debate. i hope the istanbul convention will make women freer and we will save more lives. this is what it’s all about.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear citizens of the eu, i am speaking today directly to you as the purpose of this new law is to benefit each and every one of you on a daily basis. we are rewriting rules in order to make the industry more transparent, green and consumer-oriented, to make it easier for you to make informed choices and sustainable choices when you make purchase. you want products that last longer, break less often and are more easily repaired? the information will be provided to you and planned obsolescence will be banned. you want to be sure that you are doing your part by purchasing products that are truly environmentally sound? we will make sure no one can advertise their product as being green if there is no merit to these claims. do aggressive and manipulative sales tactics by online sales services annoy you? we will ban practices that could distort or impair your free choice as a customer. all this and more we did to empower you for the green transition to make the citizens players on the common market rather than mere payers. all this was made with support from all sides of this plenary hall, from representatives of the political groups, left and right. we all want europe that works for people. among the many useful things we managed to secure for the citizens, some merit special mention: for example, banning early obsolescence practices when products are designed and made to break soon after the legal guarantee runs out in order to make the consumers buy new stuff. surveys show that citizens consider cell phones – a device that has become ubiquitous – to be more affected by these practices, and that they usually break down in the second year of use. such practices are perpetuating a vicious circle that is bad for everyone except the industry, and it makes enormous profits from the buy-use-discard consumption model. to counter this, we introduced an outright ban on early obsolescence practices. we want to make refrigerators great again. in order to make it easier for consumers to identify and purchase products that are more durable, we will introduce a new mandatory label. it will cover the legal guarantee of conformity and its voluntary extension in the form of a commercial guarantee of durability. so if a tv maker provides two years of legal warranty and an additional two years of commercial guarantee of durability, this product will bear a 2 + 2 label. in addition, if the competitor offers no commercial guarantee of durability, this label will be 2 + 0. this will induce producers to compete. when it comes to sustainability labels, we are reinforcing the certification schemes. in short, all the companies issuing such labels and certificates will have to be vetted and certified themselves by the member state authorities. this includes a complaint system that focuses on non-compliance and insurance, and the withdrawal of the sustainability labels in such cases. we will ban environmental claims if not substantiated with evidence, such as ‘environmentally friendly’, ‘natural’, ‘biodegradable’, ‘climate neutral’ or ‘eco’. in addition, companies will no longer be able to feature carbon offsetting as an asset. in order to become empowered consumers in the green transition, the citizens need to be properly informed, and their legal rights must be protected and strengthened. we are enabling citizens to choose products that are more durable, repairable and sustainable. companies will have to stop early obsolescence with a ban on introducing features that limit a product’s durability. they will also have to make their products more repairable than they currently are. furthermore, we will end the jungle of false environmental claims – only certified and substantiated ecological claims will be permitted. to summarise, we want more value in citizens’ wallets and less valuable resources in the trash.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i am pleased to be with you today for this debate about the ‘empowering consumers for the green transition’ proposal. i would first like to thank the parliament for its support to this proposal and in particular the rapporteur for the imco committee, ms biljana borzan. this proposal is a major contribution to the green transition. indeed, many consumers want to play a more active role in the green transition through their consumption choices, but they too often lack the necessary information to do so. for instance, the 2023 consumer conditions scoreboard shows that more than half of respondents said they were influenced by environmental considerations when purchasing a product recently. but 39% also flagged that they consider environmental claims unreliable. this proposal is part of a broader package of initiatives aimed at fostering sustainable consumption, covering the design, the purchasing and the use phases. in particular, this proposal aims to ensure that consumers are provided with better information on durability and repairability of products at the point of sale. it also aims to ensure better protection of consumers against harmful practices that prevent them from making optimal, sustainable consumption choices. for instance, together with the recent ‘green claims’ proposal, it aims to strengthen the fight against greenwashing by banning practices that mislead consumers on the actual sustainability of products. by doing so, consumers will be able to choose products that are genuinely better for the environment. this will encourage competition towards more environmentally sustainable products. the initiative also steps up consumer protection against early obsolescence practices, which, together with the recent ‘right to repair’ initiative, would ensure that consumers have access to more durable and repairable products. the commission therefore praises the parliament for its broad support to the objectives of the proposal. let me, however, highlight that some amendments proposed by the parliament may go beyond the objective of the commission’s proposal. for instance, possible dual quality issues are already covered by a new provision in the revised unfair commercial practices directive. this became applicable only a year ago. the implementation of this recent provision should, in our view, first be assessed before considering possible additional amendments on this matter. such assessment is foreseen by the commission for next year, when we will publish a report. the issue of dark patterns is also important. however, i would like to highlight that this is being examined in the ongoing eu fitness check on digital fairness, for which again a report is also expected next year. so madam president, honourable members, thank you again for your support on this file. as the council has adopted its position last week, we hope that we will soon start the trialogues with the objective of concluding the negotiations still this year. i look forward, of course, to your interventions.
for the ppe group. president. - the debate is closed. if europe is to cope with climate change, climate-smart action must be made easier. but we have a problem, because the eu has no credibility to stop greenwashing, when we have greenwashing in this parliament: it's the environment party and their green party group. because despite their high-tailed approach to climate issues, we see how they're pushing to ban advertising for solar panels and electric cars, they're trying to stop eco-labels, and they want to ban companies from compensating for climate change. how can we make it easier for consumers to find organic baby food and environmentally friendly detergents without eco-labels? how are we going to get through electrification without companies advertising solar panels? how are we going to encourage companies to take climate responsibility if they can't tell us about their sustainability work? i think it should be easy to do the right thing. it needs to be more profitable for companies to become climate-smart, and it needs to be easier for consumers to buy sustainably. we need to stop greenwashing, whether it comes from corporations or from left-wing environmentalists.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it's supposed to be easy to do right. there are many of us who want to get away from the throwaway economy, and who want to take a stand with our wallets. but we all know that's easier said than done. today it is all too easy to mislead consumers with beautiful words about sustainability, which in reality mean nothing at all. with this proposal, it'll be easier. it will give european consumers better opportunities to find out whether a product can be repaired, how long it can be used and how much it may have affected the climate and the environment. it is simply not possible to promise gold and green forests if there is no coverage in reality. green light to a proposal that strengthens our power as green consumers!
madam president, i would like to thank you. fruit is good, but it is not the eu's fruit aid. the eu's support for school fruit is not there to encourage school children to eat more fruit. it is about the fact that lobby groups have succeeded in getting brussels to put eu money, tax money, into subsidising fruit growing, with overproduction as a result. but what is the eu to do with all this fruit? what you do is either pay for the destruction of the fruit, or you drown out the demand with more tax money. swedish schools have the opportunity to apply for eu-sponsored fruit, a kind of refund of the swedish eu fee. but our government has found that bureaucracy eats up most of the fruit support. the paperwork made buying fruit almost as expensive, with or without the fruit subsidy. the eu should abolish both the aid for the overproduction of fruit and the school fruit aid, and reduce the membership fee by the same amount. then maybe schools and parents could afford to buy the fruit our children need.
madam president, following the european union's partnerships in the field of missiles and ammunition, the regulation is an attempt to shield european arms industry groups from competition from american and chinese monopolies, which is intensifying because of the prospect of an escalation of the imperialist war between nato and russia. at the same time that the greek people are counting dead, missing and displaced due to the recent floods and fires, the government, with the support of the other bourgeois parties, is provocatively claiming that it has no resources and no endless possibilities to deal with them. but it is involved in the war slaughter, supporting the reactionary zelensky regime with bases, facilities, armor, ammunition, methodically delivering tanks, anti-aircraft and multiple rocket launchers, while they are stationed on the islands of the aegean and thrace, and as the turkish bourgeoisie constantly raises the issue of demilitarization of the islands of the eastern aegean, as well as issues in western thrace. no involvement, no participation, not a bullet in the imperialist war in the ukraine. a common struggle of the peoples for their own interests against the forces that drag them to the slaughterhouse of war.
madam president, i would like to thank you. on february 24, 2022, we were all greeted by the news that russia had begun its full-scale invasion of ukraine. the war has been and continues to be brutal. women, men and children are losing their lives and families are being torn apart by the ravages of war. the eu has imposed sanctions, supplied ammunition, medical equipment and financial resources to ukraine. we have managed to rearrange large parts of our trade chains so as not to support the russian war chest. it must continue. we are now taking another important step with edirpa. joint procurement of defence equipment will create better conditions for the european defence industry and for our ability to supply ukraine with the equipment they need. we must also review our own stocks and increase production in europe. i am proud that the european union is tirelessly standing up for ukraine, for democracy and for freedom. but we all know there's only one solution, and that is that russia must get out of ukraine. slava to the ukraine!
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. imagine waking up on a perfectly ordinary morning. you get up, you open the coffee, you pour a glass of water. at the same time, you hear on the radio that the water in your area is poisoned. you'll be told that the water you and your family have been drinking for years contains cancer-causing toxins. in kallinge, sweden, this became a reality. their swedish tap water contained the dangerous substance pfas. no one has to worry about drinking water from the tap! the enhanced groundwater directive will tighten up the limits for dangerous substances such as pfas, glyphosate and antibiotics. it's good, it's good. we are thus one step closer to my vision: a sweden and a europe free from dangerous environmental toxins. i think it is important that we continue to work towards a total ban on pfas at eu level. it's about the health of all of us.
mr president, islamists and islamic states are attacking free speech in europe and some are waving the white flag. denmark’s proposed ban on quran burnings was praised by the turkish government. the speaker of the arab league urged european states and the eu to adopt similar laws. pakistan called denmark’s bill a step in the right direction – a step, ladies and gentlemen. 97 % of mosques surveyed in sweden want more. they want to criminalise desecration, provocations and insults of islamic symbols and values in general – a giant leap toward sharia. mr president, if you know the islamist end game, the proper response can only be this: not one inch. no appeasement, no submission, no surrender. never.
blue-card question. – mr pineda, you have fraternised with the leader of hamas, ismail haniyeh, in the past. my question to you today is whether you condemn the terror attack by hamas on 7 october – yes or no?
madam president, the civilised world watched in horror as hamas death squads slaughtered civilians. europe’s leaders united in condemnation and support of israel’s right to defend itself. colleagues, hamas’s raison d’etre is to annihilate israel. but what’s our response to israel’s defensive military action? well, president macron proposed a humanitarian truce and mep after mep, like the last speaker from the greens, is calling for a ceasefire. and i wonder, would we support a ceasefire if more than then 10 000 french citizens were butchered and taken hostage? ceasefire is doublespeak for israel losing the war. europe must not stand in the way of israel crushing hamas. terrorists started this war. israel will finish it. (the speaker spoke a non-official language)
madam president, ‘boom! boom! boom! bomb!’ at the mornings, afternoons, evenings and night. that is what the people of gaza are hearing. that is what the children in gaza are born into. that is what thousands have died to and more are dying as we speak. tears have become floods and there are no words left. hypocrisy is embodied through the silence of many of our member states. have we forgotten the reason of why international law exists? because also wars have laws. israel has, indeed, the right to defend itself against the terrorist organisation hamas, and all the hostages must be released. but they also have an obligation to protect civilians. one crime against international law cannot be justified with another crime of international law. it is time for the eu and our member states to wake up and defend what we claim we cherish: human rights. it is time to defend civilians. it’s time to end the bombs that are raining over gaza and violence against palestinians in the west bank. no hatred against the palestinians or jews can ever be accepted, nor islamophobia and anti-semitism that are both on rise in our union. we need to end this violence, polarisation, and we need to ensure a two-state solution through ending the occupation.
madam president, most of the west condemned hamas murders, rapes, torture and kidnapping of innocent civilians. but far too many did the opposite. colleagues, too many migrants are nominally european, but their loyalties lie elsewhere: a fifth column. but what to do about those that reject european values? well, france is considering fast-track deportations, and germany talks of rejecting citizenship for anti-semites. if implemented, this is a good first step. but as we know, talk is cheap. the hatred and antisemitism we’ve seen in european cities has no place here. this is a matter of europe remaining europe. send them home.
- madam speaker, please. the eu has been under heavy pressure in recent years - the migration crisis, the pandemic, the energy crisis and the war on international law in ukraine. the kids are in trouble. children are particularly vulnerable to all the crises in our societies. children's safety, health and schooling are affected. the economic situation of families is affected. children's families across the eu cannot afford their bills and cannot afford food. one in four children in the eu is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. one out of four kids! growing up in poverty has a negative impact on children's rights, both here and now, and later in life. the child quarantine is therefore an important tool that we must abide by. if the eu fails to ensure a safe upbringing for our children, here and now, it will affect both their future and our common future.
madam speaker, the commission! this mandate in the eu has been exceptional pandemic, energy crisis and war in europe. the eu is still standing strong. we've faced the crises with action. over the last two years, we have doubled the share of renewable energy in europe. it shows what we can accomplish when we come together and decide to act. at cop28, we must demonstrate the same driving force. we must show and push for the rest of the world to follow the eu and triple renewable energy investment by 2030, double energy efficiency by 2030 and ensure that the damage and loss fund is launched. it's about justice and respect. our focus at cop28 must be action to reduce emissions now. not later, but now. point of view.
- madam speaker, please. the commission, colleagues and the audience! the key to the green transition is in northern sweden. with natural resources, climate-smart electricity and competence, the future of green industry in europe lies there if we safeguard global competition. but when the us and china choose to pump billions into their industry, the eu needs to show that there are better options than pouring tax money into already prosperous companies or companies that may never stand on their own two feet. at the same time, we cannot stand by our arms when the green industry in europe risks moving abroad. it is good that the eu is mobilizing to make europe the whole of europe a fruitful place for the green transition. with the net zero industry act, we shorten the licensing process for new businesses, reduce the administration of entrepreneurs, promote competitiveness and innovation, and it is a path to a sustainable europe and a sustainable world.
member of the commission. – ladies and gentlemen, members of parliament, dear rapporteur, i would like to thank you for the quality of your contributions and, in general, for the spirit of compromise that has emerged from this debate. the commission has taken note that on several elements of the commission’s proposal, parliament wishes to go even further or in a direction that sometimes differs from the proposal, and i am notably thinking about the possible scope expansion, shortening certain permit timelines, or modifying some criteria related to market access. this also concerns some of the provisions related to the strengthening of the chapter on governance. all these points will have to be discussed during trilogues. for the commission, these negotiations will need to be guided by two principles: speed and efficiency. we must act quickly because the situation on the ground is worrying, in particular for solar and wind energy. european wind turbine equipment manufacturers suffer record losses and they are facing fierce competition from china. the same can be noticed in the solar sector, where european manufacturers had to reduce or even stop their production over the summer due to significant stocks of chinese solar panels being, to say it very bluntly, dumped on the european market. but we must also act efficiently. with the political agreement reached in record time on the critical raw materials act, the commission is convinced that this can be achieved also for the net-zero industry as well, so that europe can finally tackle head-on the industrial dimension of its decarbonisation efforts.
the report is not yet available. i am not going to say anything. a german sociologist once described politics as the islands of the mind. and what we heard today was partly encouraging, but partly also relatively questionable. mr carême has done everything he can to deepen the perhaps wrong assumption that greens simply do not understand anything about economics and value chains. mr botenga, whom i really value intellectually, is fighting capitalism. our colleagues are saying what is expected, and it is a complete lie that we want to establish industry in natura 2000 areas. mr buchheit of the afd continues to stir fears, is basically against everything and wants to emigrate to britain. so it was really all on offer today. what's the point? firstly, i believe that the majority of this house will want to send an optimistic signal tomorrow that we believe in the competitiveness of a decarbonised european industry. second, we believe in innovation. we believe in the people of europe. we believe in workers, in engineers, in entrepreneurs who go in that direction. thirdly, we must support this process of transformation of our economy more simply and decisively. i think what we're starting is a first step. of course, we cannot solve everything with a net-zero industrial regulation. in parallel, the commission has started sectoral discussions with industry, and there are transition pathways. we have now increased the resources for research and innovation in the budgetary negotiations as parliament, although the council may be planning to reduce them again. i think we should just put an optimistic signal on the eve of a decision like this that we're making tomorrow, that we believe we can do it, that we don't have to worry about americans, chinese and the rest of the world, that we don't go into dystopia, but that we believe in our own performance, in innovation, in the innovation of our entrepreneurs, and that we don't always build ideological pairs of opposites between industry and decarbonisation. it is a first and important step towards the competitiveness of european industry, for the innovation we need to achieve decarbonisation and our objectives, and a further addressing to the next generation that we are now taking the necessary practical steps to not only formulate but also achieve objectives.
the discussion is closed. the vote will be held tomorrow, tuesday 21 november 2023. written declarations (article 171)
in writing. it is now a fact that the european economy has fallen into a deadlock, the continent's competitiveness has collapsed and industrial output has been falling steadily for six months. this is the result of the european commission's industrial policy to date, which has been based on an absurd green ideology and increased bureaucracy. this situation is unacceptable, and a new strategy is needed. the proposal for a net zero industry that we are discussing here could be a step in the right direction. recognising the strategic importance of nuclear energy and the objectives of increasing the european production capacity of net zero industries and technologies are important elements on the path to a strong european industry. it is also pleased that the legislation would call on brussels to reduce the bureaucratic burden on small businesses by 40% by 2030. however, achieving the objectives is as important as setting them. we can't trust the bureaucrats in brussels who are already in charge. the european industry and jobs will therefore need change first of all in brussels. we can take the first step in this next june.
in writing. achieving the 2030 and 2050 climate targets implies an exponential increase in clean energy production. as europe currently imports much of these technologies, the net emission industry act (nzia) adopted by the ep creates the framework for european production capacity for strategic technologies contributing to the net zero emission target to reach 40% of the eu's annual needs by 2030. the commission's initial text was extremely superficial, so i am pleased that parliament has achieved consistency and that the epp amendments, including some of my own, are in parliament's final text. not only has the list of technologies that can be supported been expanded and will be updated periodically, but authorisation procedures will also be faster. technologies such as nuclear fusion, sustainable aviation fuel (saf) production or co2 capture and storage are included in the text and the scope of nzia covers the entire supply chain, including components, materials and machinery for the production of net zero emission technologies. the production of these technologies will be financially supported by the eu ets and step funds.
in writing. – the eu needs an innovation renaissance in order to be both environmentally and economically sustainable. in order to achieve this, supporting industry and pursuing climate goals must go hand-in-hand. for the net zero industry act to achieve its aim of creating a predictable and simplified regulatory environment in the context of the green deal, competitiveness must be at its heart. therefore, i welcome important improvements this report has made to the original proposal. for example, including the ‘innovation principle’, pursuing measures to help reduce barriers to scaling-up manufacturing; providing guidance to help businesses implement the rules adopted, establishing an annual competitiveness review, and creating a ‘scientific advisory board on regulatory burden’. this report marks an important step towards increasing the eu’s resilience, and equipping european industry with the right tools and vision to help it meet its domestic and global demands for net-zero technologies.
the agenda is set out in the report by rené repasi, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for the improvement of the working conditions of workers and workers in the workplace (a9-0316/2023).
the report is not yet available. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. the commission has calculated that we produce 35 million tonnes of waste every year simply because we do not repair but throw away goods that are actually functional. the majority of citizens want their products repaired. but what happens today when you want your faulty product repaired? within the statutory warranty period, the seller, who cannot repair himself at all or has no own repair network at all, but has a storage space full of brand new products, points out that it is much better to take a new product instead of having it repaired. the manufacturer, who has the necessary repair knowledge, will refer us to the seller. that is what european law wants. after the legal guarantee period expires, the seller sends us home empty-handed anyway. the manufacturer shakes his head: "no, i don't have to fix it. and the independent repairman next door sends us a cost estimate where the spare part is more expensive than buying a new product from the cheapest class. so it's no wonder that repair doesn't really work. and that's exactly what we need to change if we're going to make the transition from the disposal company to the repair company. it was therefore good that the commission presented its proposal for a right to redress in march. but we need to be more ambitious. ladies and gentlemen, we must change the behaviour of consumers. we need more than a legal priority for repair. we need incentives to get people to choose repair. the incentives are: the introduction of an additional one-year warranty period for repaired goods after all, consumers will receive two full years when they get a new product. consumers need a replacement device if the repair takes longer than expected and they must be able to contact the manufacturer if they wish to be repaired. the manufacturer then fulfils the claim for redress against the seller as an aid to the seller. the same incentive structure must also apply to repair after the legal guarantee period has expired if the repair is in competition with the cheap new product. let me now go back to the heart of the right to repair. we consumers do not want to send our products for repair, but to have them repaired quickly around the corner. however, the repairman is faced with the challenge of not having any spare parts available or at absurd monthly prices, or of having hardware or software supplies from the manufacturer that make repairs impossible. the cost-effective spare parts from the 3d printer are suppressed. this has to stop! we therefore call for such specifications and disproportionate and discriminatory prices for spare parts to be prohibited. finally, we must not lose sight of those who do not choose between repair and new equipment, but between repair and nothing at all. we must, if we wish, introduce support measures to make reparations affordable for the poorest. with all these measures we want to decide tomorrow, we will have a real right to repair. in this connection i would like to thank in particular the shadow rapporteurs of the groups in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection for their excellent cooperation in this matter, which has now come to a conclusion which is now being voted on by a wide majority. a broad majority of this house will send a signal to the commission, but above all to the council that we need an ambitious and genuine right to repair, which requires us to do a little more than the commission has proposed but certainly not less.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i am pleased to be with you for this debate about the proposal on promoting the repair of goods. this proposal is a major contribution to the green transition, aiming to make repair a more attractive alternative to replacement. and together with other initiatives, such as the adopted proposal for a directive on empowering consumers for the green transition and the proposal for an ecodesign for sustainable products regulation, it aims at ensuring an effective right to repair for consumers. it would encourage consumers to have products repaired and, as a result, use them for longer. i would like to thank parliament for its support for this important proposal and in particular the rapporteur, mr rené repasi. i would like to express my gratitude for the work done at all committee levels and following a demanding timeline to make the adoption of the proposal possible still within this parliamentary mandate. the commission welcomes the draft report, which supports the overall goal of our proposal that is to make it easier for consumers to repair defective products. the commission is pleased to see that the draft report maintains the key elements of the proposal. we also note that on some elements, the report goes further than the commission or, on the contrary, falls short on certain provisions compared to the commission’s proposal. in this context, let me highlight two important aspects. firstly, in order to meet consumers’ expectations about the right to repair goods on the market must be technically repairable. this is why the commission proposal links the obligation to repair for producers with product-specific repairability requirements under eu law. such requirements are set, for example, in the eco design measures that regulate the design of the goods and availability of spare parts to make the repair technically and practically possible. the proposed obligation to repair would apply to the goods that are already subject to such requirements and as listed in annex ii of the proposal – an annex that will continue to grow in the future. and in this context, we also welcome the co-legislators progress on the proposal for an ecodesign for sustainable products regulation. so, by linking the manufacturers obligation towards consumers with their product-related obligations, the right to repair proposal creates a coherent legal framework for the business and consumers. secondly, the commission’s proposal includes another important feature with the european repair information form. transparency and predictability are key for consumers, so the repair form aims at giving consumers clearer information in a standardised format on the overall costs and main parameters of repair that is valid for 30 days. having this information would enable consumers to look for alternatives offers from producers and other repairers. there would be increasing competition on the repair market. the commission does not consider that provision of the form would generate significant cost and burden for repairers. from a legal point of view, by providing the form, repairers would ensure compliance with consumer information requirements that apply to them under the existing eu rules in any case. in addition, repairers could ask consumers to cover the necessary cost for inspecting the product and establishing the defect before providing the form if such cost arises. therefore, the commission believes that the mandatory repair form is a win-win for all parties concerned. finally, the commission would like to welcome parliament’s support towards the establishment of national information platforms. together with the repair information form, such national platforms will help consumers in their search for repairers. to conclude, i would like to thank you again for your support on this file. the commission hopes that we will start trilogues as soon as possible and once the council has adopted its position, which should happen very soon.
the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 and shall take into account the information provided by the commission in this annex. the honourable president, as rapporteur for the opinion of the envi committee, can say that this proposal, in line with the european green plan, is key to achieving our sustainable consumption and, of course, climate neutrality objectives. according to a survey by eurobarometer, let me just remind you, 77 percent of consumers in the european union would rather repair their products than buy new ones, but they end up having to replace or discard them because of repair costs or lack of service. that's what we were dealing with. our focus has been, in particular in the opinion of the envi committee, to facilitate product repair for consumers, thereby reducing waste and strengthening the repair sector. we want it to be more affordable and, of course, cheaper for the end consumer. we also stress the need for the transparency of spare parts prices and their availability, which is key to a sustainable repair market. i also believe that it is necessary to strengthen the culture of correction through awareness-raising campaigns, primarily at the national level. with this proposal, i conclude, we support the rights of consumers, but also of small and medium-sized enterprises and contribute to the development of the repair market. thank you, my good reporter and colleagues for your cooperation.
for the ppe group. the commissioner is the rapporteur. we consumers today would rather buy a new cell phone than send our old one to repair, because it's cheaper and faster. today, only a fifth of all cell phones are repaired, and that's a huge waste of resources. today, the mobile phone companies have created a repair monopoly. they put in software programs that prevent others from repairing them. they're stopping spare parts from competitors. right to repair is now breaking this repair monopoly. we must not be able to lock in consumers and lock out competitors. we're opening up the repair market and creating competition. it benefits everyone, both consumers and the climate. because it's free markets, not monopolies, that's the key to the green transition.
- madam speaker, please. the commission, colleagues, the audience. it wasn't any better before. but one thing is for sure, previous generations would not have been satisfied with our wear-and-tear society. in the past, things had a longer life span, and it was natural to repair and repair them, and it was not uncommon for items to be passed down from generation to generation. quality came before quantity. they repaired, sewed, stopped... repairs were the rule, not the exception. many of us have been there with, say, a broken phone or a tv that had actually been repaired, but where it became easier and cheaper to just throw it away instead of trying to do something about it. this is not gonna hold. only in sweden do we consume today as if we had four planets to live on. it's not sustainable. the law we call the right to repair is a step on the road to changing this and it will make it easier and cheaper for us consumers to choose repair when something breaks down rather than throwing it away and buying new. it's sustainable, it's the future.
for the verts/ale group. mr speaker, i want to speak to you. welcome to your new assignment. we are also pleased to welcome commissioner hoekstra. we are truly in the midst of a climate crisis right now - a climate catastrophe. and it's no longer enough to reduce emissions quickly. we also need to develop technologies that remove carbon from the atmosphere, store it in agricultural land and in our forests. but if we're gonna do it, we have to do it real. the commission's proposal is based in principle on the fact that companies should be able to offset their emissions by buying free of charge using carbon storage certificates. that's not good enough, and we, the greens, have also managed to stop it. the results of the environmental committee are pretty good. it's not perfect, but it's something to work on. i therefore urge you to stop these absurd proposals from the conservative section of the agriculture committee. for example, agricultural activities should be certified as they are today without the need to do anything more to increase the carbon stock. it's not just wrong, it's also wrong to let down all the farmers, all the planetary farmers in europe who actually want and can do something much, much more to really increase our chances of reaching our climate goals. thank you so much, man.
mr. speaker, what is this? last summer, i was at a poker run with my family at home in the warmlands. there were big american cars everywhere. a joy for the eyes and ears, for those of us who like chrome and the sound of the v8 the dull muzzle. however, many in brussels cannot see the value of a buick impala, a cheva or a cadillac. for them, cars are something that's going to take individuals from point a to point b. it's a kind of bureaucratic soullessness. such a spirit of impartiality is reflected in the commission's proposal for a regulation on circulation requirements for vehicle design and on the handling of end-of-life vehicles. the proposal is, in short, to classify old cars as scrap. there are vague writings about historic vehicle exemptions, but that's not enough. we cannot let eu bureaucrats define which vehicles are exempt. all historic vehicles must be excluded. citizens who put their soul into cleaning chrome plates, oil engines and stopping seats deserve respect. without them, future generations will never be able to get behind the wheel, turn the key and smell and hear the whisper of freedom.
question (blue card) emma wiesner, even with the exception you mention for countries that have been successful in reducing the use of plant protection products, this is a binding target for reducing plant protection in europe. plant protection is central to both swedish and european farmers. the outcome of this type of binding objective is clear. this means a reduction in food production in europe. but it's obvious that the center is willing to pay that price. another betrayal of the peasants of the old league.
madam president, we all want good, healthy food and we need to protect it from pests. this is part of the european union's food security. the proposal to reduce the use of pesticides is essentially good, but i consider the reduction, which is flat by half, to be wrong. there are differences between the member states of the european union. for example, slovakia has a very low pesticide use compared to intensive farming in western europe. i cannot therefore support the legal commitment to the reduction targets for the use of plant protection products and especially the target of reducing to 50% and to reduce gradually in some areas to a minimum or zero. this will have a negative impact on the functioning of slovak agriculture and forestry. colleagues, we may not agree, but i think we all agree that we should have less fanaticism and more realism in this, in this conference room, and we have to grow food because people have to eat. we also need to protect crops because we want to grow them, and i think we should look more for alternatives, like some bioprotection or ban monocultures and more support for farmers as such.
- madam president, please. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of animals and the environment. finally, these products are also cost factors. some people, even in this house, imagine things a little too simple. farmers do not treat their crops because they have a special desire to do so. plants get sick, are attacked by pests, need to be protected. and unfortunately, it's not often about treating a little less to harvest a little less. it is often about losing all the crops and, with it, the income of the farmers. but of course, you can reduce it, and if there is a long-term perspective, there will also be incentives for industry, for research and development to show new ways so that farmers have a real alternative. we have worked in the agriculture committee in good cooperation with most of the house's factions on a good compromise that takes into account both the desire for reduction and the need for farmers to protect their production and their crops. and i think we should restore this compromise of the agriculture committee to a large extent in the vote tomorrow.
the general debate on pesticides is interesting, but the practical debate on glyphosate is even more so. as a new member of parliament, i have been very surprised over the past few weeks to see that the commission's proposal never changes. you have never taken into account the positions of the member states, the positions of the parliamentarians and the positions of stakeholders. i have found a form of blindness and obstinacy that will lead to legal action and i call on all members of parliament to support the proceedings, particularly by the toxic secret societies, before the court of justice. you tell us that decisions are based on science. many of us consider ourselves to be in a situation of scientific uncertainty and controversy. the director-general of efsa told parliament that the resources available to assess the risks of pesticides were insufficient and that his agency was not able to function properly. 80% of scientific publications are now excluded from the databases used by efsa to assess risks. so no, commissioner, we do not consider this opinion to be based on science. you have not even taken into account efsa's advice, you have simply referred the baby to the states, who will have a lot of difficulty doing better than efsa in assessing product risks and protecting health and the environment.
question on the procedure of the blue card. i have a question: firstly, we always want to keep to the facts: the proposal is officially a plant protection product. do you agree that we agree on the terminology of pesticides and not pesticides? and secondly, don't you also think that the new breeding methods are an opportunity to save on pesticides? and will you join us in promoting these new breeding methods?
- madam speaker, please. commissioner, my colleagues. european farmers need to be able to work under long-term conditions and rules of play. we need to ensure that plant protection products can be used responsibly and safely, when and wherever necessary. it is simply not possible to say on the one hand that we must strengthen and increase our food production in europe, so that in the next breath we have proposals on the table that risk knocking the producers' legs out. several european countries have made their homework and have continuously reduced the use of plant protection products. we should therefore work at european level and give member states more influence, especially in terms of the definitions of protected areas. we have seen in recent years proposals after proposals that question agriculture when we should actually do the opposite. my group and my party, the moderates, believe that it is time to stop seeing agriculture as a problem and not actually ensure and see it as part of the solution. (the speaker agreed to answer a question ('blue card') )
the question ('blue card'). jessica polfjärd, what do m and kd think when you cheat on the swedish farmers? swedish farmers have reduced their use of plant protection products and we have, thanks to the centre party, a lower requirement than other eu countries, a requirement we can already meet. this legislation would get the rest of the eu countries on track, to make the same journey, to bear the same costs as the swedish farmers have already incurred. it would strengthen the competitiveness of swedish farmers. why are you engaging in rural populism and voting against proposals that strengthen swedish agriculture and the competitiveness of swedish farmers?
the answer ('blue card'). emma weisner, thank you for your question. i am not sure what the commission is doing, but i am sure that the commission will be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission is able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the results are achieved. but it's not just the moderates and the christian democrats who say this. it is even farmers themselves who say that they find it difficult to achieve the objectives set by the european parliament if they look like this. it is believed that this will be difficult and that this will lead to difficulties in producing efficiently. it's just to ask the swedish farmers, emma.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to a historic result with great intelligence, which puts a very fossil sector (heavyweights, 25% of transport carbon emissions) on a low emission path. low emissions? i would have preferred a zero-emission trajectory. we'll have done it with the cars. we environmentalists have also advocated this for trucks, but we are setting ourselves to the goal of less than 90, because if the intermediate objectives remain ambitious, they must be carried forward. i would like to draw your attention to one thing: we can carry a road map as we know how to do it today, but it will have to be accompanied mainly by industrial policy. because we're late. sales of electric trucks represent only 1% of the european market. they cost €450,000 a piece, whereas it is known that today the majority of freight operators are smes. we can make timetables for the exit, yes, but above all we will need a real ambitious industrial policy. and the net zero industry regulation does not currently meet this requirement.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, i want to see you. there is a growing body of europeans who say that the pace of climate change imposed by the commission is too fast and that the social and economic costs of leaving fossil fuels without an equally efficient alternative will be enormous. instead of listening to these critical opinions, parliament continues to tighten its course. this report, like the other elements of the fit for 55 package, does not take into account technological realities or negative effects on the economy. it also ignores the dire state of infrastructure for trucks in many member states. we should take more into account transitional and low-emission fuels, such as hydrogen from all possible sources. more flexibility is also needed in terms of deadlines and targets, for example for small and medium-sized enterprises or local authorities. instead, we have another example of an ideological approach to the issues where profitability and a fair balance of profit and loss should be the deciding factor.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, too often the green deal coincides with electrification in the minds of some, especially in the world of mobility: in some cases very rigid, as on light vehicles, in other cases less rigid, as in the case of heavy vehicles. the subject is: traditional sources are not sustainable and not eternal. well, there's a flaw in this approach. first, sustainability is not measured by emissions at landfill, but over the entire lifecycle, because here are surprises: over the entire life cycle, we have state-of-the-art fuels, biofuels and synthetic fuels, which sometimes have a better carbon balance than electricity. for many years electricity will still be produced from coal-fired plants and non-renewable sources. but the second point is availability. it is often said, rightly, that gas is not eternal, for example. good . in all electrical devices, from the distribution networks to the motors, to the batteries, there is copper, a crucial raw material for all electrification. today we consume 22 million tons of copper a year. within 10 years, the international energy agency says we'll be down to 10 million but the proposed electrification process would require 50 million. where do you get all this copper? we suggest technological freedom. europe is the most sustainable continent in the world because it has always invested in technological freedom, not in binding solutions. these constraints will reduce research, break down industry and not achieve sustainability.
mr president, whether we are in a car or on a bench and a truck, a crane or, in the past, a line car passes by us and literally fills us with smoke, so much so that we cannot even breathe. what damage to our health and how much damage is being done to the environment and the climate. think about it a little bit, 25% of traffic emissions come from these big vehicles, but these vehicles are only 2% of all vehicles on our roads. the conservatives here don't want us to have changes to our health and to the environment, but now is the time to shape the future; where we have pushed to make trucks, cranes, these heavy-duty vehicles, their future one that is good for our health and the environment. and then, yes, the time is now to start planning our future.
a uachtaráin, we would like to have one letter or word added to the title here: ‘strengthening the co2 emission performance targets – and support – for new heavy-duty vehicles’. because if the targets are to be met, you have to have support. recently i attended the irish road haulage association dinner in my hometown of killarney. it was quite clear that the industry is committed to reducing emissions and being more sustainable. and indeed, there were many vehicles on display at the conference showing the way of the future. but for long and heavy-duty vehicles, it's probably biofuels or something, not electrification, as of now. obviously in cities and towns, electrification is possible, but again, especially for buses, et cetera, what is needed is support. and the support is simple: affordable, accessible, plenty of them – charging points. if we put the support in place, then the targets can be met. not without it.
mr president, technological neutrality, if achieved in heavy vehicles, will benefit all member states, allowing each member state to meet its own energy targets. in all modes of transport, and not only on heavy roads, there are no unique and perfect technical solutions for this decarbonisation. the european parliament is therefore calling for, and we must also call for, all cleaner energy alternatives that actually achieve these objectives and that do not create uncertainties that are harmful to investment but also to innovation in transport companies. in portugal, road freight transport accounts for about 65% of transport activity. the dependence on this mode of transport means that any change in the rules has a greater impact on us than on another member state. so what we are going to defend and legitimize here, on behalf of the epp too, is support for energy sources that allow for co2 reduction without choosing one over the other.
member of the commission. – mr president, many thanks to all the honourable members of this house for sharing their thoughts, sometimes diverging, but that is precisely what the debate is for: to sharpen the mind, to sharpen proposals, and to see what the way forward is. mr president, there is actually only one plea that i would like to leave the plenary with. in my view, there are two things that we need to accomplish. one is very, very clear ambition in terms of climate action. the world cannot wait. next generations cannot wait. everyone who articulated that transportation is such an important part of the puzzle are absolutely right. we simply need to do more, and that is why we also welcome the proposal as proposed by the rapporteur. that is one. the second thing, and i have articulated that before in my hearing as well, is that my deep conviction is that when a transformation this massive is at hand, you would need to always look for majorities as broad as possible, because that gives you the solidification of acceptance in society. so, always reaching out to citizens, always reaching out to businesses. it is through that combination, through that lens, that i will continue to act, and i hope that others in this room will do the same.
rapporteur. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank all my colleagues and certainly, of course, specifically our shadows for the very good discussions we had and also the exchange of views we had today in this plenary. and i really would like to thank everyone for that. just saying that in some of the contributions sometimes, well, the truth is bent to a large extent, i would say, to the level even – and it is a pity that ms sardone is not even there anymore – but claiming there is no impact assessment on this. there is a huge impact assessment. maybe she missed the hundreds of pages on the internet, but i can still send it around. but please, people, stick to the facts when we are discussing this file. there is a lot of impact assessment on the table. also, i really want to stress, on trucks and buses, europe is in the lead in electrification. in cars, we are losing out. we are catching up. but we are late in the game. in trucks and buses, europe is still in the lead but we cannot –and i repeat, we cannot – just lie low and think that innovation will come without any effort. if we want to make sure that we keep on leading this, then we need to progress and we need to step forward. and that is exactly what this proposal is going to do. i only want to go into the carbon correction factor at the end. people that are saying that fuels whatsoever are banned in this proposal, show me where. show me where. it is nowhere banned. it will fall under the 90% reduction target and you can comply with it. so there is no ban on it. it is very technology neutral. so anyone claiming it is not really should stick to the facts. then those who are now saying i want a common correction factor, and for that i need a broader definition of carbon neutrality of fuels, they are bending the truth as well. even peter liese – my dear colleague, i have high esteem for you, pity you are not there – in your proposal you are saying that renewable liquid and gaseous fields of non-biological origin should be zero. however, in other european legislation it’s very clear those are being defined with the reduction of greenhouse gas by 70%. that is not zero. you can call it on paper zero, but in reality it is not. so cheating does not help here. so please colleagues, let us stick to the facts. let us stay on course and support the report as it stands. and let us not mix it with all kinds of other dubious lobbies, because the only one fighting for carbon neutrality for fuels, it is the gas lobby. that is who you are doing for – all the truck manufacturers do not want it, so listen to them for once.
the debate is closed. the vote is today. (the meeting was adjourned at 11:36 a.m.)
dear colleagues, in an increasingly complex geopolitical context, the european and african continents share mutual challenges and concerns. as a like-minded partner and key strategic ally on the african continent, it is my pleasure to welcome president william ruto of the republic of kenya to the european parliament. president ruto, this house has closely followed your commitment towards our shared values and democratic principles; your active engagement in strengthening multilateral institutions; your pivotal role in upholding the rules-based international order in times of war, contributing to international burden-sharing – whether by hosting refugees or by backing peace-building and police missions across the world. we have also seen kenya’s influential role in amplifying africa’s concerns on climate change. the summit organised recently in nairobi – the first africa climate summit – underlined our shared vision on international climate diplomacy and decarbonisation. the european union is committed to the transition towards renewable energy sources and i am convinced that we will share the needed leadership when implementing the global gateway projects on green hydrogen. kenyans can be proud of their democracy, of their vibrant civil society, of their pluralistic and free media. and because you are here amongst allies and friends, allow me a moment to emphasise the crucial link between democracy and human rights in building inclusive societies. this means embracing diversity, including on sexual orientation, protecting minorities and addressing inequalities. one last word on trade: let me commend you on the conclusion of the negotiations to establish an eu-kenya economic partnership agreement, which is due to be signed next month. this house stands ready to play a positive and constructive continued role in strengthening our cooperation. dear president ruto, the floor is yours.
president of the republic of kenya. – madam president, members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, i am truly honoured to stand before you today in this esteemed chamber. your invitation to address this assembly, symbolising the unity and diversity of europe, is a privilege i hold in high regard. i extend my heartfelt thanks to all of you, the distinguished representatives of 450 million citizens across 27 member states. madam president, i am particularly grateful for your gracious welcome, which reflects the spirit of solidarity and cooperation that this assembly embodies. this eminent institution plays a critical role in shaping policies and decisions that affect not only europe, but also its partners around the world, including kenya. let me express my sincere gratitude for your support in the imminent conclusion of the economic partnership agreement between the european union and kenya. this is a major leap forward in our trade and economic relationship. the eu remains one of our most important trading allies, accounting for more than a fifth of kenya’s global exports. i must emphasise the impact of this agreement extends far beyond trade statistics. it opens a world of opportunities, facilitating not only the exchange of goods but also ideas and innovations. it is a bridge between people and cultures and continents. these are difficult times – there is no doubt. we find ourselves amidst a formidable storm of challenges, each not only complex in its own way, but also deeply interconnected. new and renewed international conflict and wars as witnessed most recently in ukraine, israel and gaza, the sahel, sudan, somalia, the drc, creating widespread human suffering and deepening divisions in a period where global collaboration and unity are of paramount importance. democracy is under pressure in many parts of the world and multilateral institutions, once the hope for international solidarity, are struggling to maintain broad-based acceptance, relevance and effectiveness. at the same time, progress towards the sustainable development goals is unravelling. rising interest rates and looming debt distress make it much harder for countries to address their own socioeconomic challenges. high cost of living, fiscal strain and migration are weakening international solidarity. and, most existentially, the world, as the un secretary-general reminded us recently, is literally on fire – ‘the era of global boiling’, it used to be ‘global warming’ – emphasising the severe and escalating impact of climate change. the escalating severity of climate change is particularly acute and poignant in africa, a continent that, despite its minimal contribution to global emissions, finds itself at the forefront of environmental vulnerability. in africa with less buffers to address climate change challenges, we feel the impact more directly and more acutely. consider, for example, the significant influence of high inflation rates on voting behaviours in your region – and i am told you are going to election shortly. now imagine the impact of a year-on-year food price inflation exceeding 10% in sub-saharan african countries, where food makes up a third of household expenses. these challenges are not isolated. they are interconnected layers of a complex historical, economic, and environmental narrative that the continent endures. africa still carries the scars of colonialism, which remain visible in the economic and institutional dependencies that continue to hinder progress and perpetuate social and political fragility. and acknowledging these issues is important, but focusing solely on them risks obscuring the broader horizon and opportunity. the adversarial north versus south dynamic has not served us well, denying us the opportunity to leverage each other’s strengths. similarly, the east versus west divide is untenable and counterproductive, working against the interests of us all. climate change has introduced a new dimension into this complex equation. while it poses an existential threat, climate change has also emerged as a levelling force, equalising us all in the face of a shared global challenge, transcending all divides: north-south, east-west, developed and developing. collectively, therefore, we have the means to make progress. advanced technology, robust financial systems and dynamic markets, alongside pioneering advantages in various sectors, are key assets of the global north. historically, the global south has played a vital role in supporting the north’s industrialisation by providing raw materials and markets. now, as we navigate a new era of global interdependence, this needs to evolve into a reciprocal relationship – a shift towards a more balanced and equitable global partnership with the deliberate transfer of technologies and intentional flow of capital to the global south. and this also means a seat at the table to look for solutions that work for all of us, in a spirit of cooperation and mutual understanding. thus, it is essential to reassess long-standing assumptions that sometimes are not true, rethink perceived barriers, and question default decisions. we need to be bold and strategic, and also take the decisive step towards the structural shift required to fulfil the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and keep global warming at 1.5°c. this was precisely the premise of the inaugural africa climate summit that i hosted in nairobi in september. the summit provided a platform not just to discuss the challenges we face, but to view them through the lens of solutions and opportunities. therefore, i am hopeful because there exists a real opportunity. an opportunity to reach sustainable, equitable prosperity for all of humanity. an opportunity for the european union to accelerate its race to net zero, decarbonise its industry and build the economy of the future. and an opportunity for africa to provide security and stability for all africans while taking its rightful place in the 21st-century economy. the africa climate summit culminated in the nairobi declaration, which sets out the vision and a pathway for africa to be a vital part of the global solution to the existential climate change challenge that we all face. the declaration captures the consensus of the african government leaders for climate positive growth. we have the world’s biggest untapped renewable energy potential, the youngest and fastest growing workforce and human capital, and relevant natural resources and assets. 60%, for example, of the world’s best solar potential is in africa. as well as 60% of the remaining unused arable land in the world. these assets create an inherent ability for africa to produce green-from-the-start, cost-competitive products and services, and to provide some of the highest-quality carbon removal services anywhere in the world. when it comes to green economy, our reality is markedly differently from that of europe. over 600 million africans are deprived of access to energy, a fundamental prerequisite for dignified living and the provision of basic yet vital services like health and education. adding to this is the fact that almost 1 billion africans lack access to clean cooking. while the global narrative often emphasises energy transition, for most of africa, it is about energy growth, expansion and access. it follows that how africa takes on this challenge will matter a great deal, both regionally and globally. it will matter whether africa can transform into a green powerhouse that helps the world decarbonise. equally important is the focus on providing educational opportunities for the youth of africa. by investing in the education and skills development of our young population, africa can create a vibrant, self-sustaining economy that offers its youth compelling reasons to build their future at home in africa. this approach, underpinned by structured migration, can alleviate the pressure on regions like europe, which increasingly rely on economic migrants to maintain their standard of living. adopting this agenda is not just a choice but an necessity. the alternative, which neglects africa’s development and industrialisation and fails to invest in the young generation, is not, members, a viable option. allow me to illustrate with a few tangible examples of how our strategies and interests converge. in kenya, for example, we already have a 92% green grid. our challenge is not how to get that to 100%, because we will, rather our challenge is how to grow it. from its current size of just 3gw – which is, i am told, less than 25% of the paris metropolitan area for a country with five times as many people – we want to grow our grid to 100gw by 2050 so that it can power green industrialisation and create prosperity through green growth. in june this year, this very parliament adopted legislation to create the enabling environment for the domestic production of 10 million tonnes of green hydrogen by 2030 and the import of a similar amount in order to green eu industry. african countries are recognised as potential producers of this green hydrogen and we welcome the collaboration. kenya, for example, is developing a plant to produce green fertiliser, which will reduce our import dependency, and we have an opportunity to export green hydrogen from our geothermal resources to europe. another eu-relevant example is bauxite. africa currently mines 25% of the world’s bauxite, yet exports almost all of it as raw material. if africa’s renewable energy potential were deployed to smelt currently mined bauxite into aluminium, we could save millions of tons of co2 equivalent and generate hundreds of thousands of jobs in our continent. and aluminium is just one example of many. green steel is another, not to mention africa’s significant global deposits of critical minerals or our potential to produce sustainable fuels. by tapping into these resources and employing green technologies, africa can contribute significantly to global decarbonisation efforts while boosting its own economic development, creating a win-win scenario for both the continent and the world. while africa, as a source of raw materials and market for finished products, contributed to europe’s industrialisation, there has been tremendous growth in technology and capital. it is, ladies and gentlemen, i request, the time for europe to deploy these technologies and capital to now unlock the huge green energy resources, drive green industrialisation using the natural resource endowments in the continent, global green products and services, create jobs and, at the same time, decarbonise europe and global growth. indeed, i could devote much more time to unfolding the vast richness of our continent. yet the path to realising africa’s full potential is paved with significant challenges. let us consider some sobering facts: in the last two decades, global investments in renewable energy soared to an impressive usd 3 trillion, but only a fraction of this – usd 60 billion, or just 2% – found its way to africa, despite our enormous potential and urgent energy needs. a critical obstacle in this journey is the prohibitive high cost of capital. private investors are demanding high premiums, in great part based on perceived risks. consequently, we are burdened with borrowing costs at least five times higher than those of advanced economies, creating a vicious cycle of debt. this disparity not only hinders our progress, but also makes any meaningful development financing unattainable. this situation is indefensible, both morally and economically. and changing it is possible, but it requires our collective will and resourcefulness. above all, it requires new forms of cooperation that are based on mutually beneficial strategies. europe has been an ally and a partner to africa for many years, encompassing a broad spectrum of initiatives that are very important for our continent, from economic cooperation that fosters trade and investment, to the vital steps taken in energy and climate change through initiatives like the africa-eu energy partnership, and we are making very steady progress in that direction. our collective efforts in peace and security, notably supported by the african peace facility, have been influential in promoting stability across the continent. in education and research, programmes like erasmus+ have opened new horizons for our youth, while joint efforts in health have underscored the importance of robust health systems. we are working together on migration management, focusing on issues such as combating human trafficking and addressing the root cause of irregular migration. and initiatives such as the global gateway have the possibility to open new avenues for cooperation. but we can and must do more. above all, we must remain alert to the risk of conflict, as tensions and disagreements can escalate rapidly with far-reaching and costly consequences. the conflict in the heart of europe, something unimaginable in the 21st century, underscores this reality. in the face of such challenges, the role of kenya as a stable democracy and an anchor state for peace and security in the region becomes increasingly significant. as the african union mission in somalia is concluding, kenya as a frontline state will continue our support and collaboration with the government in somalia to fight against terrorism. this ongoing commitment is crucial for maintaining regional stability, and we count on the eu bilateral support for our efforts in this regard. in another part of the world, the situation in haiti highlights the global nature of security challenges. grounded in united nations resolutions, the multinational security support mission will need some 5000 men and women to address the challenge posed by armed gangs, estimated to be around 9000. currently, about eight countries, including kenya, are willing to contribute their forces to haiti, but there is a clear need for assurance of international support. the support from the eu will be instrumental in bolstering the initiative, providing the necessary resources, including legitimacy. madam president, members of this great august house, fostering long-term peace and stability goes hand in hand with building sustainable economic foundations. and africa is mapping out the road for green industrialisation and prosperity, so that it can play its rightful role in shaping a better future for all. in this endeavour, the partnership between europe and africa must embody a reciprocal relationship grounded in shared objectives and cooperative effort. this synergy has the power to drive transformative results for both continents. concrete, actionable steps are the key to realising these mutually beneficial vision. firstly, africa’s journey to become a green industrial powerhouse needs the right type and amount of capital, especially in renewable energy and infrastructure. such investment could catapult africa to a future where energy access is universal by 2030, simultaneously slashing emissions from energy generation in africa by 80%. secondly, there is unnecessary complement to capital: market access. in fact, one of the biggest contributions that the eu can make to both addressing poverty in africa and achieving global climate goals is through its demand for green products and services, including for carbon credits. africa wants to compete. crucially, we are not asking for further exemptions or a lower bar, but with high requirements on quality and integrity. thirdly, the eu has a golden opportunity to leverage high-quality african carbon credits that conserve and expand natural carbon sinks, reduce emissions and remove atmospheric carbon. these days, not a week goes by without an exposé about bad carbon credits. and while issues exist in the market, it is important to not lose sight of one of the core drivers: at the current price of 50 cents to a few dollars per tonne in the voluntary market, it is simply impossible to generate quality credits. in the nairobi declaration, we committed to leaning forward in increasing the bar on quality and integrity on carbon and other relevant effects of this project. it will be that much easier to do so with a prospect of market access. in kenya, the draft carbon markets regulation is in the final stage of finalisation, and we believe that, using these carbon credit instruments, we can create resources to not only expand our growth but also decarbonise global growth. fourthly, aligning european concessional and multilateral capital with africa’s climate agenda is also an economic idea. it is about phasing down climate incompatible funding to shift them towards climate action, unlock much more concessional finance and lower risks. here, i invite the european investment bank to play a bigger role in kenya and on the continent with its expertise and resources. and finally, african economies are constrained by lack of appropriate and sufficient finance and investment. as african countries, we pay five times as much as much for our debt as we would pay if the multilateral development banks were appropriately capitalised. those seeking investment for private projects face high costs of capital and unhelpful short tenures, driven by both real and perceived risk factors. we face a chokehold on a vicious cycle: as countries, our ability to invest consistently and strategically in basic infrastructure, social services and skills development is severely hampered. and lack of that investment contributes to the high risk premiums, and makes it harder for private projects to become viable and attractive. there is a very strong list of proposals to reform the international financial architecture. we support this and more and we are in good company. for example, the implementation of the capital adequacy framework review of the mdbs has broad-based support across g7 and g20. yet our path to action is a bit too slow. i call on all of us to accelerate and expand these measures, such as with the tax working group we are launching with france at the cop28 next month. lastly, europe’s experience in workforce development and reskilling offers invaluable insights. by learning from europe’s successful models in education and vocational training, we can build capacity and equip our youth with the competencies required in an evolving global economy. members, europe is a significant investor and trade partner in africa – a relationship that has been fruitful over the years. our collaborative efforts have helped generate millions of jobs and enhance livelihoods across the continent. this partnership is not only a cornerstone of our past and present, but it is also crucial for our future. i extend a warm invitation to european companies, institutions and organisations to explore the many opportunities our continent has to offer. join us in a collaborative endeavour to unearth and develop solutions that leverage our respective strengths, drive innovation and benefit not only africa, but also contribute to global progress. because our story does not stop with our two continents. this is a global story. the demands of our time are great and full of uncertainty. addressing this effectively hinges on a robust commitment to multilateralism and international cooperation. however, it is increasingly clear that the institutions and structures established in the 20th century are not fit for purpose anymore. we must ensure they are equipped to address contemporary challenges and pave the way for inclusion, equality and prosperity. this calls for a fundamental redefinition of international cooperation. we must move beyond arrangements that perpetuate cycles of indebtedness and dependence. our aim should be to bring about real additional financing that does not merely escalate debt burdens or facilitate the extraction of profits. cooperation that does not lock in developing countries in fossil fuel dependency, but allows them to advance alongside the rest of the world in the transition to sustainable energy. genuine partnerships that prioritise people and their well-being on a liveable planet. in today’s interconnected world, where the fortunes of all nations are tightly woven together, a new era of cooperation and collective action is necessary for a prosperous and peaceful world. in the face of threats that transcend borders and oceans, it is essential to adopt a clear-sighted and unified approach to confront climate change, combat poverty, and tackle conflict. madam president, honourable members, the annals of history are replete with instances where collective action has achieved what no single nation could accomplish alone. we are acutely aware that our decisions and actions will significantly shape the 21st century. years from now, future generations will reflect on this era, scrutinising the choices we make in this moment. let it be said that we are visionary, not just preoccupied with the present, but deeply invested in the future. let our legacy be one of foresight, collaboration and solidarity. let us be guided by a deep commitment to ensuring a prosperous, equitable and sustainable world for those who will follow our footsteps. (the house rose and accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
following the appointment of our colleagues ernest urtasun and sira rego to the spanish government, parliament takes note of the vacancy of their seats from 21 november 2023 in accordance with the rules of procedure.
we now come to the vote. (for the results and other details concerning the vote: see minutes)
rapporteur. – mr president, dear colleagues, thanks a lot for this very huge majority supporting the report, which will boost our negotiations with the trilogue to come. in order to do so, mr president, i would like to request the matter to be referred back to the committee in order to start interinstitutional negotiations, pursuant to rule 59 of our rules of procedure.
rapporteur. – mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that’s good news for the climate; it’s good news for the european economy; and it’s a clear answer to the americans, to the inflation reduction act. so, i thank for the constructive majority in the parliament, and let’s now dance with the council. so, in line with rule 59 of the rules of procedure, i would like to ask for the matter to be referred back to the committee for interinstitutional negotiations, according to the rules 60 and 74 of the rules of procedure.
rapporteur. – mr president, i thank colleagues for this interesting vote – very tight vote sometimes, but we made it. so i want to thank everyone, especially the shadows, and i would like to ask now for referral back to the committee for immediate start of interinstitutional negotiations, according to rule 59(4).
i'm the reporter. president. - the next item is the report (doc. this sector has suffered enormously during the covid crisis and we need to prevent it the next time. the cultural and creative sectors music, art, theatre and sport connect people, as the renaissance once did. we call on the european commission to encourage the cultural and creative sectors in its next term of office work programme to bring all europeans closer together. love comes from the heart, not from the wallet. if europeans feel european, then the member states will follow and the future of the european union will be guaranteed.
rapporteur. – mr president, colleagues, imagine our continent without the unifying force of the european union. this is what we are voting on today. it is not just a hypothetical scenario: we have multiple actors within and outside of our union, working each day to dismantle this beautiful project that our foreparents dreamed of, built, and with which we have now been entrusted by our citizens, in our hands, to protect and strengthen. we come together because of our shared values, and in the face of the growing challenges our strength lies in staying united, notwithstanding the diversity within us. and this is what this report is all about. with this report, my colleague yana and myself sought to put into text the legal heart of our cohesion, the rule of law, and the good functioning of our legal framework, which after all, all of us, all of our member states, agreed to when we decided to join this beautiful project of ours. in fact, some had said, why should we even have this report today, because isn’t it so obvious that we all – well all apart from those at the far right – agree with this principle of primacy of eu law? so today’s vote is on whether we agree on the existence of our european project or not. because if we dismantle what is fundamental, if we dismantle what holds us together legally, then unfortunately our union would cease to exist. so i would like to thank all of those who have worked on this file, on this report, and i urge everyone to vote in favour today.
rapporteur. – mr president, dear colleagues, the implementation report on the european solidarity corps reflects the success of this youth programme for young people between 18 and 30 years old, respectively certified for humanitarian aid activities. the programme has awarded almost 43 000 young people in the last two years, and the interest is still rising. of course, there are some pressing challenges like enhancing visibility, improving it tools, including specific initiatives in the post-war rebuilding of ukraine or increasing the budget. in any way, it is excellent youth programme with a european added value which leads towards active citizenship, which is needed now. with my dear colleague shadow rapporteurs, we hope this report will be a good basis for improving the programme in the next period.
that concludes the vote. (the sitting was suspended at 13.28)
the next item is the debate on the recommendation by daniel caspary, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the free trade agreement between the european union and new zealand (06600/2023 – c9-0247/2023 – 2023/0038(nle)) (a9-0305/2023).
the report is not yet available. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. finally, today and tomorrow we are opening the way for a new trade agreement for our agreement between the european union and new zealand. what does this trade agreement mean? the agreement helps us to protect what we have: prosperity, good and secure jobs and our global competitiveness. it means improved and new export opportunities for our european companies, including small and mediumsized enterprises in particular. the agreement intensifies and broadens our economic exchanges with new zealand. why do we need this and other trade agreements? we europeans are still a global trading power today. but we are in constant competition with other countries and regions around the world. not all of them are democratic and work by the same rules as we do, like china. so far, we have often managed to regulate global trade through the world trade organization and our trade agreements, together with our partners, and to shape global trade in this way. the new trade agreement is exactly that: a tool to drive economic globalization along a regulated path with like-minded, trusted partners for the benefit of our citizens and our companies. the trade agreement with new zealand is the most modern agreement we have ever concluded as a european union. a few examples: a separate contact point will be set up for small and medium-sized enterprises. we are setting up a better, more legal footing for the rapidly growing digital commerce for businesses and consumers alike. sustainability requirements and climate protection are set in accordance with the paris climate agreement, and in new zealand, indigenous peoples are fully protected. in short, the new zealand trade agreement is a good example of prudent, forward-looking and meaningfully neutral trade policy. for the figures-loving: european companies are exempted from customs duties of around eur 140 million per year on exports to new zealand. our european companies are benefiting enormously from this. a few concrete examples: the new system will be based on the new system of taxation, which will be reduced to 10% for cars. or even for pharmaceutical products or sweets, they fall to 0%. we can increase our trade volume by up to 30%, and the volume of investment in new zealand can increase by up to 80% for our companies, opening up new growth opportunities. new agreements always bring criticism. we are also well served by this, because we have taken a critical look at it. it is important, however, to look at criticism and to weigh carefully what criticism is justified and what is not. and that's why: a few headlines and likes are useful to some, but they don't have much to do with reality. example: compliance with the paris convention on climate change is strictly regulated. in the light of the above, the commission considers that the commission is not in a position to adopt a decision on the application of the rules. the commission has also been criticized for selling off our high european levels of protection, for example, for food standards, or pesticide residue limits and so on. but here too: in no area does the agreement deviate even a millimeter from our longstanding rules. so how's it going? we have the debate today and the vote tomorrow. i wish that we would support this one-off agreement by a wide majority. the ball is then on the member states' side and, with luck, the council could agree to it at the next meeting of the competent council on foreign affairs on monday. in that sense, i would like to thank everyone who has contributed constructively in recent years. i look forward to the debate and the exchange today. i would like to thank you very much for your interest in this subject.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, it is an honour to join you for today’s debate on the eu-new zealand free trade agreement. less than 18 months ago, president von der leyen and the then new zealand prime minister ardern announced the political conclusion of this deal after several days of ministerial talks between myself and new zealand minister o’connor. when we announced this deal, it was clear that it would become known as the most modern and progressive free trade agreement yet. in fact, we place sustainability right at the heart of the agreement: climate, environment, economic and social sustainability. this agreement speaks to the shared values of the eu and new zealand. we are partners who see eye to eye in many ways, including in support for multilateralism and rules-based international order. we are dynamic exporting economies, we are strong proponents of meaningful climate action, we are firm believers in supporting agri-food producers and rural communities. in strategic terms, i believe that the conclusion of our fta sends a strong signal at the difficult moment of heightened geopolitical tensions. first and foremost, it shows a joint commitment to a rules-based trading system. the agreement delivers on an important part of the eu’s 2021 indo-pacific strategy. thanks to the tighter economic relations with such a trusted partner, we will be able to continue diversifying our trade relations. this agreement will make us stronger, more resilient and more connected to this region in the world. it builds on the agreements which we have in place in the broader region with japan, korea, singapore and vietnam. this is a very comprehensive trade agreement. i will reiterate that it is a really modern and state-of-the art deal in the following ways: the fta reflects our joint high ambitions to offer new market opportunities to business operators from both sides, while reinforcing our joint commitment to strong ambitions on sustainable development. it contains the most ambitious sustainability commitments ever included in a free trade agreement. let me give you a flavour of just some of its innovative features. for example, the fta reflects the outcome of the 2022 trade and sustainable development review, with sanctionable commitments to the paris agreement on climate, as well as core labour standards. it is important to ensure we tackle the climate emergency and safeguard workers’ rights. with this deal, the eu and new zealand are now leading the way internationally. the agreement also contains novel commitments on circular economy, deforestation, carbon pricing and protection of the marine environment, and liberalises environmental goods and services at entry into force. the trade and sustainable development chapter also includes dedicated trade and gender equality provisions aimed at advancing gender equality and the economic empowerment of women. furthermore, there is a chapter specifically addressing the maori, the indigenous people of new zealand. many of these items are the first of their kind for the eu. once the agreement enters into force, we estimate a potential to increase bilateral trade by up to 30%. let me elaborate on a few key ways in which we expect this to come about. the deal will cut up to eur 140 million a year in duties for eu companies from the first year of application. european farmers and the food sector will see new business opportunities in new zealand as a trade agreement removes all tariffs at entry into force on the eu agri-food exports. furthermore, the agreement protects 2 000 geographical indications for eu wines and spirits such as prosecco, polish vodka, rioja, champagne and tokaji. in addition, 163 iconic traditional eu food products such as feta cheese, lübecker marzipan or elea kalamata olives will be protected in new zealand. this agreement also contains important novel provisions on sustainable food systems and animal welfare. the fta will open the new zealand services market in key sectors such as financial services, telecommunications, maritime transport and delivery services. it will ensure non-discriminatory treatment to eu investors in new zealand and vice versa. according to some estimates, the agreement can bring about an increase of eu investment flows into new zealand of over 80%. it will improve access for eu companies to new zealand government procurement contracts for goods, services, works and works concessions. it puts in place predictable and transparent rules for digital trade, facilitating data flows with trust and securing an online environment for consumers. the agreement will prevent unjustified data localisation requirements whilst preserving the policy space to implement the eu legislative acquis and fully maintaining high standards on personal data protection. it will eliminate export restrictions of energy and raw material goods, bans export pricing and promotes trade and investment in sustainable energy goods, such as energy-efficient products. the vast majority of companies in both the eu and new zealand are smes. the agreement will help these businesses export more through dedicated provisions on small and medium enterprises. the fta will significantly reduce compliance requirements and procedures to allow for quicker flows of goods. furthermore, new zealand took significant commitments to protect and enforce intellectual property rights aligned with eu standards. so, honourable members, i would like to conclude by thanking the inta chairman bernd lange, inta rapporteur daniel caspary, inta shadow rapporteurs from different political groups and also agri rapporteur michaela šojdrová, and their teams. your continued support throughout the negotiations, as well as during the parliamentary process, has been crucial. at the risk of repeating myself, this has been an exemplary case of close and constructive interinstitutional cooperation. of course, i would also like to pay tribute to my counterpart throughout these negotiations, new zealand trade minister, damien o’connor. i want to acknowledge the excellent work done by dg trade and our chief negotiator, peter berz, and his counterpart on the new zealand side, vangelis vitalis. they showed great professionalism and diligence in steering the talks towards an agreement at political level. i look forward for today’s debate and the vote tomorrow, which i hope will see the parliament give its consent to this state-of-the-art free trade agreement, which puts sustainability at its core.
for the ppe group. i am not going to say anything about the commissioner. we have seen the eu's competitiveness decline in recent years. fifteen years ago, the economies of the eu and the us were roughly equal. if we look at the current situation, the us economy has grown by over 120%, while we in the eu have barely increased by 50%. at the same time, india and china are accelerating their growth figures. free trade agreements are crucial here. they are crucial to economic growth. they are crucial for job creation and they are crucial for european competitiveness. i therefore welcome this free trade agreement with new zealand. i am very pleased that we now have this agreement in place and i believe we will vote by a large majority in parliament tomorrow for this agreement. that will mean about a 30 percent increase in our trade. this will mean major reductions in customs duties, which will of course be reflected in lower prices for consumers. increased competition will also lead to higher quality products. so this is basically a very good deal! but as we now enter the final phase of this term, it is inevitable that we will note the fact that this is only the second agreement we have concluded during this term. we need to speed up the pace so we can get more deals. they're so important. they are valuable to our competitiveness and a strong call to the commission to put full gas behind mercosur and australia. i would like to congratulate the commission on the success of this agreement.
for the renew group. - mrs. speaker, please. commission, colleagues and the audience. i would like to begin by thanking former trade commissioner cecilia malmström, who was the one who started negotiations on this agreement in june 2018. i am very proud and happy to be part of this parliament. in a time of war and crisis, we need to get closer to our allies, and that is exactly what happens when we strengthen the bonds between europe and our friends in new zealand. as a free trade friend, a climate activist, a feminist, a democratic, it is my pleasure that hopefully tomorrow we will vote yes to the world's most modern free trade agreement. it shows that trade and sustainability go hand in hand. i remember former new zealand prime minister ardern. when she was visiting brussels, she said that this agreement is about values, not just volumes. it is, and this is a stronger bond for freedom and democracy in an otherwise dark world.
mr. speaker, what is this? we are many who regret that the united kingdom chose to leave the union at the beginning of this term. they claimed that the eu was on the verge of becoming a superstate with a sharply reduced national influence. they were wrong, but unfortunately, they may seem to be getting it right. at least if the european parliament's proposal for treaty amendments were to become reality. because in that case, sweden's ability to stop new eu taxes would be lost. the eu could control healthcare. sweden would lose all right to influence its own environmental policy and we would have an eu government. those who want to preserve eu cooperation must try to stop this kind of proposal to create a european superstate. otherwise, more countries than the uk will want to leave.
- madam speaker, please. the commission. finland's business is ours. that was said almost 100 years ago and the solidarity with our neighbour is still valid today. because in sweden, in europe and around us, forces are now mobilizing to tear apart the cohesion of our countries and undermine our support for ukraine. we see this in russia's energy war against europe. we see this in the way putin is mobilizing to challenge european unity. the message of the social democrats is clear. in a dangerous time, europe must stand for stability, security and cohesion. it is a protection against insecurity in a changing world order and it requires resilient external borders, a functioning joint response to migration and last but not least a willingness to support finland as it strengthens its border.
mr. speaker, what is this? i'm going to work with you. a small area in the middle east, completely cut off from the outside world. no place for civilians to seek shelter beyond bombs and tanks. women, children, infants and the elderly, including journalists and healthcare workers, are deprived of their lives. the place is named gaza in palestine, the world's largest outdoor prison. the cry for help should ring in the ears of everyone, including our troops inside our parliament. but the whole swedish right m, kd and l together with the sd and the whole european far right seem deaf because of their hostility towards the palestinians. yes, hamas and other terrorist organizations must be fought. at the same time, it must be ensured that innocent palestinians and israelis are rescued and that the people of gaza are not driven from their homes. yesterday's agreement between israel and hamas is critical to saving civilians. nevertheless, let us never forget that even war has laws that must be respected by all sides, always. the eu must contribute humanitarian aid, support the palestinian authority, end suffering and take global responsibility for a two-state solution, including by recognizing palestine. israelis and palestinians deserve peace and security. and finally, i want to thank hivp borrell and commissioner lenarčič for your important work. but i must also say that i am ashamed of commissioner várhelyi and his actions.
mr president, commissioners, i want to talk about hostages. i want to talk about the over 200 israeli women, children and men whom hamas kidnapped on 7 october. and i want to talk about the palestinians in gaza whom hamas has taken hostage too. and while i welcome the positive news about a possible deal, it is still vital to stress that hamas must release all hostages – all hostages. the vicious terror organisation hamas, set on annihilating the state of israel, has butchered israelis, raped women in front of their children, burned humans alive. but hamas is also tormenting palestinians in gaza, blocking their escape, using them as human shields, refusing basic rights, torturing people for being gay, silencing women. hamas leaves no hope for the future of gaza and for the people of gaza that they claim to represent. hamas must be defeated: from the river to the sea, all hostages must be free.
mr president, allow me to start by apologising to the children of gaza on our disappointing positions so far. we have let them down. we have let their lives be taken away from them and not defended their equal right to life. and let me thank also mr borrell for finally raising his voice in a just way, standing up for all humans’ human rights, because something that has been very clear and strongly shown is that we have applied double standards when it comes to implementing human rights for all. the people of gaza, the palestinians have been treated with double standards, and that is just a fact. yesterday i listened to the israeli former ambassador, élie barnavi, and he said that we have to show courage. that means that we have to now start to force both sides into the peace negotiations. we have to have a marshall plan for gaza, and we have to recognise the state of palestine and bring on the... (the president cut off the speaker)
- madam speaker, please. commissioner, what is this? in the late middle ages, no one would have guessed that europe's many warring and divided small states would dominate the world. the ming dynasty, the ottomans, and the great mughals had a larger population, better military forces, and were more economically and culturally superior. but it was europe that came to rule the world while the others were falling back. what's the reason? the requirement for equalization from the imperial central institutions. the absence of a central power and the rivalry between the various kingdoms stimulated a drive for innovation and progress. europe was on a spiral of economic growth that eventually gave us a head start over all the others. while others have adopted our recipe for success, we have abandoned it. eu deregulation and retail governance are currently the biggest obstacle to innovation and development. more than 9 300 new or updated acts during this term of office speak their language. today this house voted to ban the wood packaging that camembert is in, for example. member states, businesses and citizens do not need better regulation. they need significantly less regulation, less bureaucracy and much more freedom.
mr president, commissioner, europe’s biggest long-term threat remains the chinese communist regime, which seeks systemic global supremacy, and they have a plan to achieve it. tiananmen, tibet, xinjiang, hong kong. in 2019, hong kongers stood and sang for freedom. thousands, including children, were arrested and jailed. and in 2020 came the infamous national security law, which continues to strangle freedom, with new restrictions now threatening all remaining independence for civil society, business and the judiciary. we are seeing freedom of religion tested, with the regime’s red and gold flag now being paired alongside christian pulpits. this parliament has called for targeted sanctions against all those responsible for ongoing crackdowns, for the release of jimmy lai and all human rights defenders, and for the protection of hong kongers in europe. so my question to the commission is, how will human rights in hong kong be prioritised in the eu-china summit this december?
mr. speaker, what is this? commission, colleagues and the audience. from the crowd in the tear gas cloud, the sound of fear and slogans. the strong vocal cords of the protesters create sunken frames. it's the sound of dedication and a firm proof that hong kongers are willing to die for their freedom. so writes the swedish liberal and author simona mohamsson in her book hong kong rip. the battle for hong kong is bigger than the fate of a city. it's a deal about china's influence in the world. in 2019, the people of hong kong rose up and protested against what became a country, a system. despite promises that hong kong would be allowed to maintain its free, democratic society, china has shattered the dream with force and continues to do so. the european union must therefore speak plainly, with a united voice, that china is our greatest threat to the world's liberal democracy.
author. – madam president, commissioner, yet again, we address the dire human rights situation in iran. johan floderus, a swedish citizen and eu official, remains captive to the regime’s twisted hostage diplomacy. so too does swedish citizen ahmadreza djalali. yet again, we demand their immediate release and, yet again, we condemn the regime’s unabating brutality. in september last year, 22-year-old jina mahsa amini was murdered for the ‘crime’ of showing her hair. more than 500 were then killed in crackdowns. in july, i nominated jina mahsa amini and the women life freedom movement for the sakharov prize of 2023. two months ago, i called for a debate to echo that movement’s message of dignity and opportunity, fullness and fairness, and hope. now, yet again, i have called for this debate and put forward an urgency resolution because critically, the fight for women and freedom and even for life itself continues in iran. in october, 16-year-old armita geravand was beaten to death for resisting the regime’s diktat forcing hijabs. at a funeral, 2012 sakharov winner nasrin sotoudeh was beaten and jailed. women human rights defenders, opponents, are being locked up when peacefully exercising their fundamental rights, and this house demands their immediate release. no more discrimination against women, no more hostage diplomacy. designate the irgc as a terrorist organisation. no more shielding iran’s leaders from accountability. if the mullahs don’t stop, we will keep standing here. we will keep taking action and we will keep the pressure on again, and yet again.
author. – colleagues, it has been more than one year since i cut my hair here in this very plenary in protest, where the eu did not show the same courage as the iranian women who were shouting on the streets on the top of their lungs, ‘woman, life, freedom.’ (the speaker used a slogan in a non-eu language.) still to this very day, the regime of the mullahs in tehran are still arresting, arbitrarily detaining, executing everyone who stands against their oppression. the last known victim is 16-year-old armita, a young girl who took her last breath while in coma after being beaten by the morality police. at her funeral, the human rights advocate nasrin sotoudeh was arrested – alongside with her sister in the fight, nobel prize laureate narges mohammadi – and it has not stopped there at all. it also is holding eu citizens as hostages. the latest known victim that we know is the swedish citizen johan floderus. we, the european parliament demand to list the irgc on the eu terrorist list. we demand the unconditional release of all arbitrary detainees, women’s rights defenders and all eu citizens, like johan floderus, and we demand to stop all executions in iran.
- madam speaker, please. the united states of europe. that is what the majority of the european parliament voted for here today. but i must say that i welcome the sincerity of the proposal to amend the eu's constitution. once upon a time, the eu's centralists could escape by deflecting our warnings that the eu was turning into a superstate. not anymore. the parties of the moderates, the christian democrats, the social democrats, the environment party, the liberals and the centre party have voted today to pass a report to transfer power over taxes and finance, education, health, defence and much more from the member states to brussels. in such a europe, sweden has as little power as a german state. we'll be a tax province in the north with symbolic parliamentary elections. trust the swedish democrats will do everything we can to ensure that sweden protects our democracy and independence and stops the planned takeover of power by the centralists.
mr president, women’s and girls’ cries for help sound different, but yet they’re all the same. the responses of our 27 member states are, however, shameful. an estimated 81 100 women and girls were murdered intentionally in 2021. more than half of them were killed as a consequence of domestic violence. more than 60% of women have experienced some kind of violence on their phone or online. every third woman over 15 in the eu is a survivor of physical or sexual violence. but these are not only figures: behind every and each number there is a person, a woman, a girl, a mother, a daughter, a nurse, a doctor, even a lawmaker. no place is safe: homes, schools, workplaces, squares, streets or social media platforms. women and girls are continually being punchbags and shooting boards for men. together with my co-chief-negotiator frances fitzgerald i am continuing the struggle to ensure that our 27 member states understand that we must have a strong directive to combat this heinous violence. but the year is 2023, and still a majority of our member states refuse to include the most important legislation as a part of the package – consent-based rape legislation. since we introduced the legislation back in 2018 in sweden, thanks to the women’s organisations such as fatta and under the social-democratic-led government, the sentences have increased with over 75%. it is shameful that governments like those in france and germany still refuse to understand that only ‘yes’ means ‘yes’. to the two men that right now are responsible for the decisions there – in france, president emmanuel macron and in germany, minister of justice marco buschmann – i want to say this: how many more of us women must be killed before you stand on the right side of history and say only ‘yes’ means ‘yes’?
mr. speaker, what is this? we're reached by the headlines of sexual violence every day, of assaults and rapes. often, only she, the woman, is seen, the one who is suspected of being the victim. that there is always a man who has done the irrevocable is not given the same titles. his guilt, his deliberate abuse, is invisible in the news reporting as well as in eu legislation. more than half of the eu member states do not have rape legislation based on anything but a yes being a no. it's a betrayal of all women who don't dare go to the police for fear of being believed, and of all victims of abuse who learn that what they've been subjected to isn't a crime under the law. this has got to end. we have to put the blame where it belongs. we need consent legislation across the eu now.
- madam speaker, please. europe's energy needs are increasing. we need to cut carbon emissions. it's an equation that doesn't go together without nuclear power. europe's use of renewable energy is moving forward, but it must not lock us in a situation where gas is used as a backup when the sun is not shining or the wind is not blowing. europe also needs a stable nuclear energy production as renewable energy production increases. so i'm so happy that we're now determining that small modular reactors are needed to provide us with the affordable, efficient, programmable, carbon-free electricity we need. in addition, tailored to meet the needs of the place where they are located. as a liberal and technological optimist, i am pleased that we are pointing to the possibilities of nuclear power. if you say no to nuclear power, you also say no to a green transition that works in practice.
now, one minute of speeches have been used and heard.
the next meeting will be held tomorrow, tuesday 12 december 2023 at 9.00 a.m. the list of submissions has been published. it is available on the european parliament's website.
the minutes of this meeting will be sent to parliament for approval at the beginning of tomorrow afternoon.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the report by nicola beer on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for ensuring a safe and sustainable supply of critical raw materials and amending regulations (eu) no 168/2013, (eu) 2018/858, (eu) 2018/1724 and (eu) 2019/1020 (com(2023) 0160 c9-0061/2023 2023/0079(cod)) (a90260/2023).
the committee's opinion was delivered on the basis of a proposal from the commission. mr speaker, i want to speak to you. today we are voting to strengthen access to critical raw materials in the eu, that is, all the minerals and metals needed for the green and digital transformation and for the future economy. it's an important decision we're going to make. at present, extraction of these raw materials in europe is almost non-existent, and we depend on imports from third countries. the risks of such a situation are clear in the light of geopolitical tensions and the protectionist developments that we see around the world. but now we have the opportunity to change course with this legislation. for too long, politics has been knocking the miners out of business. we have also chosen to overlook the role of minerals in the transition and in the work in progress, where demand is increasing every day to meet our green transition. it's time we changed that. the mines were one of the mainstays of sweden's wealth and, with proper care, they will help europe on its journey to the future.
mr. speaker, what is this? in europe we consume about a quarter of the world's raw materials, but we produce only 3%. we are therefore largely dependent on imports, especially from china. trade creates wealth, but if we're naive, it can cost us. now we're re-opening for the climate, but electrification requires huge amounts of critical metals and minerals. there are great opportunities in sweden and in the rest of europe, but we are not taking advantage of them today as we should. replacing russia's gas cranes with china as the main supplier of raw materials is a really bad idea. the green transition must be sustainable sustainable all the way. it must not be at the expense of nature or the economy or traditions of the indigenous people. when we vote on a plan to increase the extraction and recycling of critical raw materials in the eu, we will show that sustainability requirements are high and unifiable.
mr. speaker, what is this? critical raw materials are a key ingredient in the green transition. without these we will fail to electrify, among other things, the industry and transport sectors. the choice we really have is whether to break these raw materials in china, africa and central asia or whether to increase our independence and increase mining in europe. the european parliament's position on the negotiations on the critical raw materials act included the proposal that the principle of free and informed prior consent (fpic) should also be inscribed in the text of the legislation itself something which we know in the eu context would risk the effect of granting the right of veto to indigenous peoples over mining. it would be devastating for sweden, where europe's only indigenous population, the sami, lives around several of the mineral and metal deposits that are central to the transition. i am therefore relieved to see today the final result of the legislation, where this veto has been withdrawn from the proposal. but at the same time, i regret to say that this benevolent legislation hardly compensates for the many steps taken and continue to be taken in the wrong direction, where the environmental policy of the region is putting the wheel of strategically important industries in europe.
the question ('blue card'). in sweden and finland, there are a lot of critical raw materials that we need for the green transition. i am a little surprised when a finnish member of the finnish environment party wants to veto sami settlements and also claims that the consequences are too serious for the environment. but how are we going to handle the green shift? would it be better for the environment if we were to grow these substances from china or africa?
mr. speaker, what is this? the eu and taiwan have a lot in common. we believe together in liberal democracy, the importance of free and rule-based trade and respect for human rights. likewise, taiwan is an important ally in the fight against russia and in support of ukraine. in a troubled world where more and more countries are turning their backs on democracy and liberal values, europe needs allies. we need friends to build strong cooperation for peace, freedom and prosperity. a trade, investment, secure supply chain agreement whatever you call such an agreement is needed between the eu and taiwan. this means not only economic benefits for both sides, but also a clear signal to the world and to beijing that the eu is not dictated by whom to trade or cooperate with. i would like to say that i call on the commission, mr dombrovskis, to say that it is time to let taiwan in and start negotiating a cooperation agreement.
- madam speaker, please. democracy must be maintained and strengthened by all generations and throughout all ages. however, we are in a time when it is no longer about sustaining or strengthening. we are in a time when we need to defend and protect the political battles that have already been won that have given us security, freedom and security. the eu was built on the idea of eliminating the dark forces that spread hatred and destruction, but those forces have found their way back. we live in a troubled time with the despot putin and his international law-abusive aggression against ukraine on one side of our continent and the risk that donald trump will come back as president on the other side of the atlantic next year, even more aggressively than last time. at the same time, their friends - the far-right and the anti-democrats - are growing stronger in our union. a democracy package is important and crucial for the people of europe and it is important that we put it in place. not a single euro of eu taxpayer money can go into the pockets of corrupt governments undermining democracy. we must support and protect civil society actors and free, independent media and journalists. but i also want to address my colleagues here, particularly those in the epp group, which includes, among others, swedish moderates and christian democrats: can you promise to stop your cooperation with anti-democratic and far-right forces?
mr. speaker, what is this? not another child. no more child will have to wake up to the sound of bombs falling. no more child should have to see and feel the horror of their parents' cramped arms. no more child will have to see their home leveled and then forced to flee for the fourth and fifth time on streets that only lead to walls and barbed wire. no more child will be orphaned and no more child will have to search and find their siblings torn apart and crushed by racial mass. not one more child will pay with their lives for hamas terrorism. we will continue to demand a permanent ceasefire now and that the hostages be released now. it's the beginning of the road to lasting peace.
mr president, high representative, i call again: from the river to the sea, all hostages must be free. three weeks ago, i proclaimed in this house the urgent need to free all hostages, israeli as well as palestinians brutalised by hamas, terrorists who oppress the people of gaza, terrorists who want to wipe jews from the land, who choose tyranny and war over peace. thankfully, some of the israeli hostages are now free, but so many are not. step one: hostages freed. step two: hamas crushed. the abraham accords have shown us that there is hope for a third step. but the hope of two states living in peace next to each other is impossible as long as hamas prevails. iran’s puppet, hamas, is not only keeping israeli and palestinian people hostage, they’re also keeping the hope for a prosperous middle east at peace hostage. there is a better way when hamas is defeated.
mr. speaker, what is this? there is no other description of the situation in gaza than hell on earth incarnated. violence against palestinians has also increased in the west bank and in east jerusalem. hamas's heinous terrorist attacks and barbaric acts against israeli civilians were rightly condemned and must continue to be condemned. we should be able to condemn israel's violations of international law at the same time. neither israel nor hamas are above international law. i am appalled and i must say i am ashamed of how international law has become cherry picking. in the name of peace, how can we have a deaf commissioner like the hungarian olivér várhelyi, who has made it his duty to turn to peace-makers in palestine and who is allowed to continue to prey on wild animals? although the latest eu audit showed that there is no evidence that money went to hamas or any other terrorist organisation. how can we have a hard-working member state like the swedish-democratic party and the moderate foreign minister who are doing the same thing in sweden? how can we have the institutions and actors in the eu who refuse to understand that we must ensure that a ceasefire is in place? a ceasefire must be in place to end the cold-blooded killing of people. for those who really believe in a two-state solution, it is not difficult to demand that hamas release all israeli hostages and stop its heinous terrorist attacks and that israel cease its brutal attacks on civilians in gaza, but also its violence against palestinians in the west bank and east jerusalem. the war criminals on both sides must be brought before the international criminal court. the european parliament has also called on the commission to take a decision on the implementation of the european community's policy on the protection of the environment.
mr president, mr commissioner, let’s not choose sides. let’s choose principles, always principles first and foremost. let us choose international law. let us choose the humanitarian law. let us choose democracy and democratic values and rule of law. when i look at binyamin netanyahu, i see how his government, his policies have been for years feeding the movement towards hamas. when i look at hamas, i see how they have been using civilians as shields. when i look at us as europeans in this house, when i look at the us, i see how we justify the killing of innocent civilians, children in the thousands in overcrowded refugee camps. talking about that, there is another people’s right, to defend themselves. let us not believe in that narrative that the israelis’ safety is built upon palestinian blood, because it is not. it is only together. it is absurd and shameful, and shameful that we are living in a time where the word ‘ceasefire’ has become dirty and controversial. let us stop fighting over the words. let us use all our tools to stop the fighting and start the peace negotiations. let us get personally invested in that and see to a two-state solution where both palestinians and israelis are safe living … (the president cut off the speaker.)
blue-card question. – i was just wondering, did you really mean that the civilians in gaza have anywhere safe to go when bombs are falling on them? is that what you are saying? and did you also mean that the palestinians are not worthy of our own state? is that what you are saying? because if that’s what you’re saying, you need to explain that really, really clear here in this chamber because that would not mean that you see all people’s lives equally.
blue-card question. – mr president, i do agree with the colleague that we need to do everything we can to fight antisemitism wherever it appears. it can never, ever be accepted wherever it shows its ugly face. however, the european union have the georg eckert institute report, which is clear that the palestinian textbooks adhere to unesco standards. would you be prepared also to ask for the same revision of the israeli textbooks? because it would be very good to have both the revision of israeli and the palestinian textbooks to ensure that we put the same requirements on both.
blue-card question. – i am deeply concerned about my irish colleague from the left group. antisemitism is on the rise throughout europe and an elected official continues to spread antisemitic messages. also, this is a war that started because of terrorism: a war between a democratic state and a terrorist group. but in your upside-down world, you are calling the democratic state the terrorists and not even mentioning the atrocities committed by hamas. this, my dear colleagues, is a clear example of the batshit-crazy left that does not belong in any elected chamber, let alone this one.
mr. speaker, what is this? russia's full-scale invasion of ukraine is not only a humanitarian disaster; putin is also responsible for a complete environmental disaster that will affect generations to come. russia shows total contempt for all living things. the kachov dam was blown up, groundwater and sewage systems are rotting, dangerous toxins are spreading, precious nature is being wiped out, ecosystems are collapsing. the zaporizhzhian nuclear power plant is close to collapse due to russian attacks. at the same time, the russian military is emitting huge amounts of climate emissions. it's a mockery of all of us who are trying to fight to cut emissions. russia must not only be held accountable for the damage and environmental crime, ecocide, which it commits, but the russian state must also bear and assume full economic responsibility for recovering its damage. russia and putin are a threat to europe's security, but also to our common environment. now is the time to tighten sanctions and reclaim all frozen assets to rebuild ukraine.
mr. speaker, what is this? the eu is not an isolated island. we need to strengthen our strategic autonomy and become independent of repressive regimes to take control of developments. but if we are to win the fight for international law and guide the way forward, we must also deepen our relations with like-minded people, like the united states. we face many challenges: conflicts, democratic decline, populists and extremists marching forward, gender equality under attack, climate change and the digital evolution of ai and other systems, which can be a huge asset only if regulated and shared. russia's international law aggression against ukraine is a clear example of the importance of eu-us joint action. i am certainly concerned about the white house administration's actions in other conflicts, most recently when the un security council blocked the ceasefire to end the suffering in gaza. it's totally unacceptable. i'll always criticize when i have to. however, the fact is that transatlantic developments are important for global development, and they are important for the eu. relations with the united states are therefore important. we know that extremists are at risk of taking an increasingly large part in our union and in the united states. but together we can counter and reverse the trend. it is important to work closely with the white house, but it is equally important to strengthen our relations between the parliaments of the member states and the european parliament, with the us senate and congress. cooperation is the key to progress.
mr. speaker, the united states and the european union represent an area of about 800 million people that links a long history of cooperation, freedom, democracy, human rights and the rule of law. the conflict in ukraine and the geopolitical challenges related to china, as well as the need for global climate change management, are just some of the challenges that require strong and united transatlantic cooperation. however, the relationship between the united states and the european union must not be taken lightly, and we must not speak here in particular in the context of the relationship to the united states as an inferior partner when we put it in the context of a country of the european union. this includes cooperation in areas such as trade, security, defence, technology and combating climate change. however, what remains essential to our defense is actually nato, the development of european defence capabilities, which is essential to maintaining peace and stability. the great political shift we are witnessing is a necessity for strong transatlantic cooperation, vital to maintaining peace and stability.
mr. speaker, what is this? commissioner joseph borell. the eu and the us have been together since day one to support ukraine. together we have stood united for every country and every democracy's right to peace and freedom. unfortunately, we're seeing the support failing in the united states. on the other side of the atlantic right now, the republicans are blocking a crucial $60 billion in support for ukraine. on our side of the atlantic, putin stands and thanks. this is for my colleagues in the u.s. congress: freedom does not come for free. you heard me right. freedom does not come for free, and right now ukraine is paying the ultimate price with its lives. you have a chance to continue to stand on the right side of history. so stop blocking support for ukraine and let's help ukraine win the war, together.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, high representative, as i said here in november, europe’s most serious long-term threat is the chinese communist regime, which seeks systemic global supremacy, and they have a plan to achieve it. they are a threat to democracy and human rights, to rule of law, and a level playing field, to free and fair trade, to the rules-based order. china is a global power with huge responsibility. but china’s leaders, including xi jinping, have too often contributed more to global problems than to global solutions by supporting russia’s brutal war against ukraine, by threatening taiwan, by wrongfully jailing europeans like gui minhai, by exporting the regime’s values of state control and oppression, forced assimilation in tibet and xinjiang, forced labour, crimes against humanity, and serious risk of genocide, as this parliament first recognised in june 2022 at my initiative. in hong kong, ‘one country, two systems’ has become a fading dream. jimmy lai turned 76 last week, in prison, for printing the truth. and he could soon receive a life sentence. the eu has global power too. we must use all the carrots and sticks we have, we must say loud and clear, as this report states: ‘no’ to overdependence on china; ‘yes’ to tougher trade enforcement; ‘yes’ to more sanctions on human rights abusers. free ilham tohti, free gui minhai, free jimmy lai, free all those wrongfully imprisoned.
- madam speaker, please. two weeks ago, i was in a safe house in ukraine with the bravest women i've ever met. they were ukrainian women's rights activists, lawyers, police officers, social scientists. despite airstrikes, home bombings and the deaths of relatives, ukrainian women continue to fight against male violence against women. they refuse to give up the goal of a free and equal ukraine. we've all seen the terrible violence on the front lines. but not everyone sees the invisible violence against ukrainian women, which has worsened with russia's invasion of ukraine. time and again, women are told that their struggle for equality and violence must wait until the war is over. but you can't wait. this fight for ukrainian women is more important than ever, and the eu must support ukrainian women, because it will be crucial for ukraine's future.
- madam speaker, please. i must begin by apologizing for my voice; as a father of four, you are allowed to receive both the one and the other from school and preschool. in fact, most of the eu budget finances ineffective regional and agricultural aid. one project was to create job opportunities for immigrant women from southern sweden in another part of sweden, but the project managers had not booked meetings with potential employers, so malmö residents were given an eu-funded guided tour of skellefteå instead of jobs. to support ukraine, we have to slaughter these kinds of projects. the commission calls for an additional aid to meet france's demand for increased protectionist aid financing. the swedes, who never wanted to take joint loans of billions to distribute grants to poor economies, are now forced to pay interest costs by another increase in eu taxes. it is worth noting that the social democrats in sweden have warned against even threatening to veto this. if we are to succeed in re-prioritizing and saving, a new swedish eu strategy is needed. otherwise, countries like mine will be completely overwhelmed in future negotiations.
- madam speaker, please. prime minister sanchez. we are hearing here how forces in europe are mobilizing to increase the division and cohesion of the eu. my sweden has become a warning example. we have a conservative prime minister who is now governed entirely by the nationalist party the swedish democrats. this is at a time when we need more cohesion. as a social democrat, i know that a divided europe can never lift ordinary people out of the cost crisis, can never face putin's aggression against our continent and can never fight organized crime. the eu must be a strong and secure force in a troubled world, and that requires cohesion. so, pedro sánchez, thank you very much for your work on equality and gender equality under this presidency.
- madam speaker, please. christmas is approaching, and it is a time of fellowship and joy. but it is also a time that for many means a lump in the stomach, parents wondering if the money will be enough for christmas food and christmas gifts for children and children and youths who feel their parents' anxiety and bring it with them for christmas. i hear this from colleagues all over europe and i see it at home in my country, sweden. our countries are getting poorer. it is the families of children who are being pressured hard by the cost crisis as food prices and interest rates rise, and it is the young who are to go out and face adulthood. more and more people are finding it difficult to pay their bills at the end of the month; young people who cannot afford to start their adult lives because moving from home is too expensive. yes, it is the common people who are most affected, and we can never accept that. unfortunately, we see all over europe how the right is betraying europe's citizens and young people. instead of supporting and helping the families who are now on their knees, they choose to divide and increase conflicts. at a time when we need leadership and political responsibility to lift ordinary people out of the cost crisis, the eu needs a strategy, and each member state needs a strategy to support both families with children and young people facing life. no family with children should have to celebrate christmas worrying that the money won't be enough.
mr. speaker, what is this? it is a historic day for equal rights for all and for the rights of lgbtq people in europe. finally, we now have a decisive decision that gives gay parents the legal right to recognition throughout europe. it is quite unreasonable that the free movement of rainbow families can be restricted when travelling or moving within the eu. parents are parents no matter what country you live in or who you love. discrimination against lgbtq people is completely unacceptable. it doesn't belong in today's europe. hungary and italy need to understand that they are indeed part of the eu, and that in our europe democratic freedoms and rights apply to all citizens - regardless of gender, background and sexual orientation. (the speaker agreed to answer a question ('blue card'))
it's a question of cards. - my lady, please. the european union is not a country. the european union consists of nation-states which temporarily exercise part of their sovereignty jointly. that means we have contracts. after we talk about a member state issue, why do they talk as if the european union is a country in general and the president of the european commission would not express his private opinion on this issue when the council and the national governments are going to decide, not this house and not the european commission?
blue-card answer. – well, i want to remind the member over there on the far right that we are actually one union. when we became one union, we accepted the democratic values of all of our citizens not to be discriminated against for who they are, whom they love, and for whom they want to create a family with. we are living in 2023, and right now freedom of movement is being restricted for many of our citizens. we are not fulfilling the rights of the eu that we are obliged to. that’s why this is important.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, commissioner, council representative, on 24 february 2022, russia started its full scale invasion of ukraine. since then, our union has been tested. the european union was built on the foundation of peace, and in order to yet again achieve peace in europe, we need to continue to show our united and unfaltering support to the ukrainian people and to welcome ukraine into our union. but we also need to ensure that the eu is better equipped to deal with threats to our common security. ‘if you want peace, prepare for war’. it is clear that we have failed in this regard. our member states’ armed forces have been underfunded for decades, and the european commission’s initiatives to strengthen eu cooperation within this field has so far been short-term and budgetarily-limited. the european defence industry reinforcement through common procurement act (edirpa) and the act in support of ammunition production (asap) are important steps, but clearly not enough to truly have a long-term impact to strengthen the defence industrial base in europe. in this respect, the foreseen european defence investment programme (edip) is vital, and expected to be the long-term instrument that provides the base for a stronger defence industry in europe. however, after being announced in may 2022, edip has been postponed again and again. this is not a problem of tomorrow. russian troops are on european soil today, invading a neighbouring country’s territory. what putin understands is strength, and it’s unfortunately a sign of weakness that we have failed to deliver edip in time and with a proper substance and budget. it is, of course, welcome news that the commission now plans to propose edip in february, but given the background i would not get my hopes up just yet.
madam president, colleagues, the truth poses the greatest danger to authoritarian regimes. when political opposition, human rights defenders and activists start disappearing, getting arrested and facing harassment indicates that the truth poses a threat to those in power. in 2020, mikalai statkevich from belarus was arrested and sentenced to 14 years in prison. since march 2023, there has been no information about his well-being. throughout the over hundreds of days of his unjust detention and shamed trial statkevich has been deprived of any legal representation of defence. moreover, the oppressive regime of alexander lukashenko has made sure he has had no contact with his family as part of their relentless efforts to suppress democratic forces in the country. close to 1500 belarusians are still unjustly and unlawfully imprisoned. statkevich, and all other truth tellers who are imprisoned in belarus, must be immediately and unconditionally released. and as my colleague already said, if we really want to go from words to actions, we need to ensure that belarus is also and lukashenko is included in the upcoming sanction packages.
mr. speaker, what is this? this year's cop28 is taking the first important step towards phasing out fossil fuels, and it's a big win. it's thanks to the eu and an alliance of like-minded people. the message was clear. we have to deal with the elephant in the room. if we're going to stop climate change, we need to stop fossil fuels. once again, the eu is the leader in global climate action, and this underscores the importance of climate policy coordination. in particular, since russia's war on ukraine, fossil dependence has also become a security policy issue. we watched at cop how we were challenged by powerful forces. it was a challenge to be in dubai, one of the world's largest oil producers, and i am so proud of the work of the entire eu delegation in the negotiations and would like to thank the commission and our colleagues for their good cooperation. now we're going to accelerate the transition and we're going to get rid of fossil fuels by 2030. the poorest countries, the most affected, cannot wait. the message is clear: emissions must be reduced now, not then. and that applies to all countries -- not least my swedish right-wing conservative government, which, contrary to science, the eu and the cop28 agreement right now, is increasing emissions by 2030, while households are getting poorer. all countries must do their part. now it's up to the evidence.
mr. speaker, what is this? since 1970, the year i was born, temperatures have risen faster than ever in the last 2,000 years. it's up to us humans. it's because of our use of fossil fuels -- coal, gas, oil -- and it's made us richer and it's given us the growth we have today. but cop28 was a huge success, where we finally reached an agreement to eliminate fossil fuels. the fossil age must be over. we also need to look at the details and that there are small gaps that fossil fuels could be a transitional solution. no, fossil fuels are never a solution or a transitional solution. today we should be proud of the eu's efforts at cop28. the eu has once again shown that it is the world's strongest, most powerful, most important and most ambitious environmental organisation.
