the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not often, 10 to 15 percent increase in yields or higher tonnage harvests are argued for some dangerous pesticides. but what is the cost of using pesticides here when we have dead soils, when we have a loss in biodiversity, when we have a bursting problem in the health system? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. there is no doubt that some pesticides, or many pesticides, carry unacceptable risks, cause damage to the environment, to the citizens, but also to the farmers who use these pesticides. in order to strengthen control and testing of pesticides in the authorization procedure with transparency and with control by the companies and in the future with greater consideration of health and environmental aspects, i ask you to support this report. mrs mcintyre, you say that this report reflects the opinion of a single group, an ideological opinion. i think you mean us green. what do you mean , " i 'm not a doctor " ? how can a compromise be reached with the european people's party, the social democrats, the gue and the liberals? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i do not think that is what the citizens expect of us.
rapporteur. – madam president, let me begin by thanking all the shadow rapporteurs, as well as the policy advisors and the assistants, for excellent cooperation on this report. gender mainstreaming, as we all know – or at least those of us who are in favour of it – is a globally accepted strategy for promoting gender equality. gender mainstreaming is not an end in itself, but it is a strategy, an approach and a means to achieve the goal of gender equality. gender mainstreaming involves ensuring that gender perspectives and attention to the goal of gender equality are central to all – and i would really would like to reiterate this – activities: policy development, research, dialogue, legislation, planning, implementation and monitoring of spending programmes and projects themselves. in 2019 i think it is unacceptable that, although the population of the european union consists half of women and half of men, the composition of this house of the european parliament does not mirror this balance, as only 36.1% of all meps are female. as the standing rapporteur for the gender mainstreaming report, i therefore encourage the european political parties and their party members to ensure a gender-balanced representation of candidates for the elections of this year’s european parliament election by means of a zipped list or other methods such as parity lists. the same goes for the secretariat of the european parliament. although women constitute 59% of the staff of this parliament, they are still under-represented in all ranks of management, and the number of women in senior management positions has even decreased since june 2017, while the number of women in middle management roles increased only slightly. i regret that female representation in parliament’s key decision—making positions at political and administrative levels still remains low and i urge parliament to work towards a gender-equal distribution of decision-making positions. i am very confident that the pool of very capable women eligible for such posts is in fact big enough to successfully fill the vacancies when they arise. we need to change the conceptual and behavioural attitudes towards a culture of equality. moreover, the european parliament must live up to its values and promote inclusiveness. this report calls for an active inclusion of the rights and the well—being of the lgbtqi community. the european parliament must pay attention to the rights of all gender identities. on the fight against sexual harassment, the report emphasises that sexual harassment is a serious crime, an extreme form of gender-based discrimination and one of the biggest obstacles to gender equality. i strongly regret the slow and inadequate progress in the implementation of the recommendations of parliament’s resolution from 2017, such as mandatory training for meps and staff on preventing sexual harassment and the setting-up of a task force of independent external experts to examine the situation of sexual harassment in the european parliament and the functioning of its two harassment committees. in this context, i would like to stress once again that gender equality is not just a women’s issue. in fact men may have a greater responsibility to work towards it as a group with collectively more power and influence in the european parliament than women. a strong continued commitment to gender mainstreaming is needed in order for the european parliament to support the promotion of gender equality at all levels. therefore, i really hope for your support and a positive vote tomorrow.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. ms wiśniewska, a quick question to you: are you aware that the title of the report is gender mainstreaming in the european parliament and does not concern work-life balance or any other whatever topic? it is common practice in this house that in a report we also talk about the subject itself and not about other very, very important subjects.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the objective of equality is already enshrined in the founding treaties of the european union, that is to say, it is part of the dna of the european union. it's always about the same thing: meeting on equal footing and it's about sharing power. there are obviously some people in the far right corner of this house who are having a very difficult time. the report is particularly important to me in its practical aspects. what can we do in the future? it is particularly important to me that the metoo campaign not only be a hashtag, but that we also put measures in this house - in the european parliament - that is, to use independent external experts, to whom, if possible, alleged victims can then turn without fear. this includes, of course, compulsory training. i also think money is important: when it comes to the eu budget, gender budgeting should be introduced half-and-half. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on all the work she has done and all those who have been involved.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much for a very interesting discussion which went beyond the scope of the report. i will use the opportunity to also go beyond it and to present the main principles which the commission and myself keep working on gender equality topic. the most important principle in my view is equality in opportunities – nobody says that men and women are the same. we speak about equality of opportunities, breaking the stereotypes which stop women from getting to managerial positions, and we all know that this is still an issue. so equality in opportunities. then we come to zero tolerance for discrimination and violence against women. we have alarming statistical figures which show that both open discrimination and violence are problems which need to be solved. and the third principle, we have to unleash the potential of women in both the political and economic sphere, because this will be to the benefit of the whole of society. again we have a lot of evidence which shows that it is a short-sighted position of society not to enable women to have managerial positions, to use their qualifications, because 62% of university leavers are women, young women who want to take over part of the responsibility of the development of our societies. and you mentioned many times that one of the issues which women face is insufficient conditions for working mothers to combine their work and family duties. that is why, keeping these principles, i want to continue until the end of my mandate and i very much count on the support of this parliament to finish some of the things which we have started. speaking about legislation, first of all, there is the work-life balance initiative, the combination of legislative and non-legislative measures which should create these better conditions for the working women and for working parents if you want to have this gender neutral, because we also here speak about the better possibility for men to share more duties at home and to give a wider spectrum of choices for families to use these better conditions, if they wish. we have to do everything we can to fight again discrimination, as i said, also by supporting civil society institutions. the equality bodies which we are proposing to strengthen their possibilities to represent the victims of discrimination in the courts for instance, to be concrete. we are doing a lot of things through the funding of various projects which should decrease violence against women. i am in permanent contact with the law enforcement authorities in all the member states, where we have common clear understanding that violence against women, especially domestic violence, is a crime which has to be punished. i think we are doing everything possible to achieve the accession of eu to the istanbul convention. we are doing our best in promoting women to managerial positions through diversity charters, and are still also negotiating the possibility of the adoption of the women on boards directive. so there is still a lot of work ahead of us. we are still not at the end of the mandate and it will be very important that in the next mandate, here in this house, will be a lot of women and men who will understand that gender equality is not a choice. it is an obligation and that we have to solve this problem not as a problem of women but as a problem of our society. so let’s hope the elections will bring a lot of enlightened people to this house, but also to the commission, who understand the core principles and the things which need to be done, either the continuation of what we are doing now or new ideas and new visions, and hopefully workable measures to be accomplished or to be used to solve the problem.
rapporteur. – madam president, the committee on women’s rights (femm) is a non-legislative committee. since it was mentioned that there are not many men, i would say that this is one of the reasons why there are not so many men present. i’m also sorry for this, but this is a fact. also, the gender mainstreaming report is a non-legislative report. however, this debate has shown once more how heated and how intense the discussion actually is here in this house when it comes to gender issues. i would like to thank all colleagues for their contributions – the supporting voices as well as the critical ones – since an open debate is the basis of every good functioning democracy. so is the vote, and i therefore kindly ask for broad support in favour of this gender mainstreaming report tomorrow in order to have a clear democratic decision and a strong commitment by the european parliament for gender mainstreaming and gender equality.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. there is hardly anywhere else in the world where the values of human dignity and freedom are lived as they are in europe, and that is not the least of the things that lead to prosperity in europe, and that is not the least of the things that make europe so attractive. these values also mean a responsibility for europe in the world, a responsibility to take responsibility for a strong europe with these values and also for people in need. but it also means that europe needs a system that can really take in the most vulnerable, the most needy, and not support criminal traffickers. if there is no longer a migration crisis - as the commissioner has said - it is because the criminal smuggling routes through the balkans and the mediterranean have been pushed back. the fact that there are now fewer deaths in the mediterranean is a consequence of this policy. we must protect the external borders and we must, above all now, ensure the integration into europe of those who can come, the most vulnerable and those who are also needed in europe for the labour markets.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. as an austrian, i would first of all like to welcome austrian chancellor sebastian kurz here, and i would also like to ask him to take with him the thanks and respect of the other members of the austrian federal government, at least on behalf of our delegation, because this austrian presidency of the council was extremely professional, it was effective and it was exemplary. for all those who are here today, who are also throwing dirt at this austrian presidency, may it be written in your diary, especially to the ladies and gentlemen of the social democrats: in your group there are also the romanian social democrats, and if you look at romania, where the leaders are currently being tried for electoral fraud and corruption and where there is a lot of complaining, you are not exactly predestined to come here with such negative judgments in other directions. i would also like to say something to the greens who are bringing the freedom party here close to a regime: it was the freedom party that in austria co-decided the biggest push for restitution that has ever been made in austria, and the austrian model of restitution is now considered a best practice model in israel, but also in the usa. i would ask you, however, in spite of the sensitivity of this subject, not to make such a blatant accusation against us. i would also like to briefly echo what the president of the european commission said, when he said that he could not understand why austria had not joined the un migration pact. the explanation is quite simple: because in austria there is a democratic majority in the government, in the parliament, because we want to continue to determine our migration policy ourselves and not through a declaration that is supposed to be non-binding, but in which it is inscribed more than 40 times that you commit to something. austria would thus also be relinquishing a large part of its sovereignty in this important matter, including decisions of the supreme court, which could also be incorporated into our legal system and which, in our view, would be the wrong way to go. i would also like to emphasize that the issue of subsidiarity was also of great importance during the austrian presidency. there was the big congress in bregenz. it is a perfectly correct way forward for the future of the european union, to shift back to national decisionmaking, which is better to be decided at national level than at supranational level. the austrian presidency has been an excellent one and may this type of presidency continue to be a model for all those who come after. i would like to thank the austrian federal government.
in writing. on 1 july 2018, austria assumed the six-month presidency of the council of the european union for the third time, after 1998 and 2006. however, the presidency of the council in the second half of 2018 took place under different conditions than the previous ones. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon in 2009, the position of the rotating presidency was changed by extending the powers of the european parliament. as the presidency, austria contributed substantially to the council's legislative and political work. the austrian presidency of the council adopted the motto 'a europe that protects'. the approach adopted by austria reinforces the principle of subsidiarity: the eu should focus on the big issues that need a common solution and back off on small issues where member states or regions have a better say. in this context, the presidency has emphasised the eu's effective protection function, in particular in three priority areas: security and the fight against illegal migration; safeguarding prosperity and competitiveness through digitalisation and stability in the neighbourhood; and bringing the western balkans/south-eastern europe closer to the eu.
in writing. the presidency of the council means taking responsibility for the whole of europe and building bridges. unfortunately, this did not happen during the austrian presidency. instead, the gaps between the european partners are wider than before. i want to measure the austrian federal government by its actions, but the result is mau. apart from the fact that he has put up a banner on the issues of migration and external border control, the austrian presidency has not made any progress in this area. and while there is much on the table, nothing has been achieved in consumer protection, in the area of tax justice, and certainly not in measures to reduce social disparities. from the kneissl-knicks to the non-signing of the un migration pact, which has triggered a domino effect: the political climate in europe has been poisoned for a long time. although the officials have done a very good job in 1 500 preparatory meetings, at the end of the council presidency there is nothing but a big show with bad aftertaste. a europe that protects needs more than fences and border guards. people must be able to rely on the eu to provide social protection. a pro-european presidency is different.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, madam prime minister, i would like to thank you for your kind words. two things have been remarkable to me in this debate so far. firstly, a socialist government which has put border control and illegal immigration on the agenda - congratulations on that - and secondly, a mr bullmann who, instead of dealing with the problems, is falling back on an old political pattern and launching a counterattack. so, this is something we know, but it's definitely part of the story. you will take over the austrian presidency. the austrian presidency has drawn up a considerable programme. i wish you all the best for yours, because there are difficult issues on the agenda, and you have chosen something that is certainly not easy. we've heard all about it. i like romania. i appreciate the country and the people, but i doubt whether your government is capable of running an orderly presidency of the council. that involves moderation processes, and i don't know if you're stable enough to do that. you are the third head of government in this parliament and you should not get lost in power struggles. we'll see about that. there is a law on the fight against corruption. all of this is worth investigating, and we will be the judge at the end of the day.
mr president, madam prime minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. the presidency of the council changes every six months. so it is a routine procedure, at least at european level. the romanian presidency is a departure from this pattern, firstly because the presidency is under particular time pressure due to the european parliament elections, and secondly because the presidency puts the presidency in the spotlight of the whole of europe. romania is still part of the cooperation and control mechanism to fight corruption. the commission has noted a standstill a few weeks ago, and our house expressed its concern about the development of the rule of law in a resolution adopted by a large majority last november. the situation in romania will therefore be closely monitored over the next six months. there is an opportunity in that. the country can demonstrate that it is capable of solving its internal problems in accordance with the commitments it has entered into upon accession. we are convinced that romania has a lot to offer at european level and we will be happy to support you in this.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i would like to thank all those who have been working since the beginning of this parliament to increase investment in the european union. getting investments is not a sprint, it's a marathon. we have succeeded in learning at every step and improving at every step. we launched the investment plan for europe with efsi 1 at the beginning of the legislature. we improved it with efsi 2 and extended it until 2020. we have extended the investment plan to third countries - especially africa - and we want to open another chapter with the new investeu initiative. we want to mobilise €700 billion in additional investment over seven years, reduce red tape and increase efficiency by concentrating funding instruments, better supporting smaller projects and businesses, increasing resourcefulness and, by expanding the direct award of the eu guarantee, safeguarding the political independence and transparency of investment decisions and ensuring the implementation of climate objectives. this is our aim and we hope that it will be a major step forward for more investment, growth and employment in europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the investeu programme will bring together a wide range of funding instruments under one roof in the next multiannual financial framework, making funding simpler, more efficient and more flexible. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the efsi and its impact on the union's financial markets. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the opportunity to present its opinion on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. and very positive the main contact and settlement partner is the european investment bank, which has already successfully settled the efsi. 75% of the volume is traded through this bank. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. it is also positive - and here parliament is again playing a role - that a steering committee is being set up and that there are decentralised advisory hubs, the so-called advisory hub partners - both, as i said, parliamentary positions. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the european investment fund (eif) and to increase its effectiveness. it's a great challenge. i thank the rapporteurs. let's get this thing started!
i have to say, madam president, i would also like to thank wilhelm molterer, who has shown that such a programme can be implemented very successfully. we see that europe needs investment. mr katainen has put it very well. the share of manufacturing in gdp in europe is still declining. we have set ourselves the target of 20%, but we are now at about 15%, and france and the united kingdom are already scratching the 10% mark. so, here you see that the european union really needs to act. my personal goal is to bring the share of manufacturing in europe back to 30% by 2030, so we also need to bring back manufacturing from the rest of the world that has been shifted to other countries in recent years with industry 4.0 and with the skills package, the education and training package that has been created here. i think the sme window is very useful for us, also in terms of risk sharing. the small and mediumsized enterprises in particular need to take on risk. on the other hand, they pay the taxes, and if they pay the taxes, they have a right to participate in the risk-taking accordingly. the 22 million smes, which generate 50% or more of gdp and create 80% of new jobs, are well-invested. the risk sharing between the eib at 75% and the national banks at 25% will also be felt here and a good blending will make a good and secure future possible for this europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the implementation of the sustainability chapter in the agreement with peru and colombia is not working satisfactorily. there are repeated violations of human rights and trade union rights. since the beginning of 2019, six murder victims have already been recorded. there is an urgent need for action. after trade agreements are concluded, it is our task to monitor implementation, especially in the area of sustainability chapters. we cannot conclude contracts, take pride in the inclusion of a roadmap for human rights, and then not care about follow-up. it is therefore important that we should speak today about the implementation of the agreements and that we should also mention the problems. in conclusion, i would like to stress once again that existing rules cannot be enforced without sanctions for violations of human rights, social or environmental standards. therefore, it is essential to have sanctioning possibilities in the sustainability chapters.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on international trade. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. unfortunately, the european union's trade agreements still lack enforceable mechanisms to protect labour and environmental standards. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the european globalisation adjustment fund aims to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation, trade liberalisation or technological change. the reality is that there are always winners and losers, and that the benefits of trade are not distributed equally between member states, regions or even within society. despite its relatively small budget and complex procedures, the fund has brought tangible results to over 140 000 workers from across the european union since its inception. since the fund is not fully used, we would like to simplify the application procedures. member states should be assisted in applying and the scope should be extended and made more flexible.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the european globalisation adjustment fund is being renamed the european transition fund. we greens are very much in favour of this. we would have liked a further change to 'fair transition' to show even better that it is about sustainable, good, sustainable and high-quality jobs. we consider the future european transition fund to be a very important instrument for social and labour market policy management, because it benefits workers directly, and we do not have many such instruments in the european union. it is therefore an essential building block for social europe as a whole. i am very pleased that we have been able to achieve many improvements in working together, which will be reflected in the fund's future; on the one hand, it is becoming much more future-oriented, because the digitalisation, but also the transformation of the economy to a low-carbon economy, is seen as an opportunity and not a problem, that there is retraining for job seekers for future-oriented sectors, especially for green jobs, that neets, that is, young people who are not in education, work or training, can also be included. we also welcome the increased co-financing rates and the lower intervention criteria for the number of workers made redundant, and we hope that there will be a majority in favour of this. but unfortunately we will not be able to support the rapporteur's amendment because we think it is important - as i have already said - that the egf funds benefit workers directly and not institutions, such as those supported by the social fund, but overall, of course, broad support for the greens.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. we need more money to fight youth unemployment. we need this money to give young minds in europe prospects, to guarantee all children in europe a heated nursery. of course, every child has a right to a school roll. that means we need a fully funded child guarantee to ensure that every child in the european union has access to free health care, good housing and adequate food. this means that the esf+ should be increased not reduced. we need this money so that we can not only talk about what needs to be done in sunday speeches, but actually do it here in the european union.
in writing. we see that growing social inequality is one of the greatest threats facing the european union today. the european social fund plus is an instrument which directly combats this inequality in the regions. with concrete projects, such as initiatives to tackle energy poverty and housing projects for socially disadvantaged people, the esf+ supports where it is most needed. as greens, we are particularly concerned about the greater involvement of civil society in the planning, implementation and evaluation of projects. this partnership principle will be strengthened. in future, more social projects in the european union will also benefit from increased financial support. we are taking another step towards social union. the european parliament is demonstrating with this proposal that it is prepared to actively combat inequalities.
mr president, this is a historic moment. as we know, history always comes as a surprise. when we started our mandate in 2014 nobody could have predicted such a debate today. not even in 2016, when we discussed the unexpected outcome of the brexit referendum. it took more than 900 days for the british parliament to come to a meaningful decision. months of uncertainty are behind us, and the result is clear, very clear. the future development is still not foreseeable at all. only one thing is certain: we are running out of time. seventy days to go – this great nation is sleepwalking towards the edge of the cliff. yesterday’s vote should be seen as a wake-up call. we could start discussing accountability, bad governance or how a small self-centred elite was hijacking the country’s future for short-sighted reasons. it is evident that british conservativism has dramatically failed. but this is not the moment for insisting on being right, much less for revenge or retaliation. now is the moment for responsible action in the interests of the many and not the few. the ordinary people of britain would be the losers in a hard brexit. we, the remaining 27 member states, who stayed united over the negotiations, have to be flexible in breaking the deadlock and to provide pragmatic solutions to minimise the damage. you can count on the socialists & democrats. and we should not forget that over the last 40 years the uk has made a huge contribution to our common project. we will miss the expertise of our british colleagues, but life goes on and we have to deliver: therefore we need certainty on what the uk wants. we need a clear signal and a people’s vote undoubtedly could deliver this. the british people should take back control and this time nobody could argue that the people did not know what they were voting for. we do not want to intervene in your domestic politics, but any decision you made to remain would be warmly welcomed. 140 colleagues joined me in an open letter to british citizens this week to make it clear to everyone that we want you to stay and we will welcome you back with open arms. (applause) (the speaker declined to take a blue-card question from bill etheridge)
mr president, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you very much for this inspiring speech for a europe for people. a speech that gives hope and courage. my question is directed to you in relation to the women's question. we have put on the table a ready-made report, voted on in parliament a long time ago, which states that women and men should have the same opportunities to advance in supervisory boards. what can we expect? how can we get you as an ally here? they are absolutely in favour. i now turn this question to president tajani: when allocating speaking time, are you also looking at whether there are really enough women? there is a total imbalance here. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the annual report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union is always a highlight for the libe committee. the charter of fundamental rights is a compass for our work and it is important to know whether fundamental rights are being respected, what the situation is in individual member states and how this is all developing over time. the rapporteur, josep-maria terricabras, has set out to record these requirements in a more systematic way than has been the case so far. he certainly succeeded. i'm very happy for you. he is also right to point out the role of the fundamental rights agency. the commission's expertise should be used much more intensively, not only in the preparation of the annual report on fundamental rights, but also as an expert body and in the preparation of legislative projects. this is a suggestion which our group will gladly take up. it is desirable that the agency can also act on its own initiative in this context. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to ask mrs grapini whether it would not be possible to make the delay in payment by the european union transparent. we have a lot of european union programmes and i notice that many small and mediumsized businesses here have to wait a very long time for liquidity to be restored. could we not map this in the european institutions to ensure that we as the european union also comply with this late payment directive?
the rapporteur. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we are discussing today the annual report on the financial activities of the european investment bank. i would like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs, the authors of the opinions of the advisory committees, my team and their teams for the fact that we were able to produce a comprehensive report on the bank's activities in 2017 in a few months and in a pragmatic way. the overall operational plan of the eib for the period 2017-2019 is based on the europe 2020 strategy objectives for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the fields of energy, transport and mobility, health, rural infrastructure development and agricultural business development, smes and midcaps, environment and innovation. the eib's 60th anniversary last year also fell within this period of reflection, and i would like to congratulate you, mr president hoyer, and the member states, and finally all of us. the eib is now the world's largest multilateral borrower and lender. over 60 years, a total of €1.1 trillion has been invested in 11 900 projects in more than 160 countries - a fact of which we can be very proud. the eib group's bonds are of the highest credit quality. the bank itself has a aaa rating and, thanks to its conservative risk management, a non-performing loan ratio of only 0,3% also a best practice. high creditworthiness, a solid and high-quality asset portfolio and viable investment projects are the core values of the eib's business model and also a best practice. and despite all the internationality, given the volume of investment in more than 160 countries, over 90% of the loans were granted within the eu. in 2017 alone, 901 projects were approved and €78 billion was allocated to innovation, environment, infrastructure and smes. over the past decade, over eur 200 billion has been invested in the economic and social development of the regions, and some 700 000 smes have gained better access to finance. as regards the financing side, mr president, i would like to make one comment: in 2017, around one third of eib bonds were issued in dollars. we celebrated 20 years of the euro yesterday in this house, which has now become the second largest currency in the world. perhaps, mr president, you could in future issue more euro bonds and gradually withdraw the dollar. the eib also looks to europe's competitiveness. in 2017, loans worth eur 13,9 billion were granted for, among other things, 7.4 million digital high-speed connections and the installation of 36.8 million smart meters. eur 16.6 billion went to projects in the fields of environment and sustainability, the development of renewable energy sources, energy efficiency, biodiversity, clean water and air, waste management, sustainable transport, etc. the eib is the world's largest green bond issuer. a quarter of the loan amount will be allocated to climate-related projects. the bank therefore plays a special role in financing the paris agreement. in 2017, the eib supported small and medium-sized enterprises with investments amounting to eur 29,6 billion. the eib has provided access to finance to 287 000 enterprises employing 3.9 million people. given the enormous importance of smes and start-ups for the european economy, the eib's sme strategy and the accompanying cooperation in overcoming the credit shortage are particularly noteworthy. the eib also played an important role in overcoming the investment gap in europe caused by the crisis. the efsi is particularly important in this respect. the fund, managed by the eib, has so far mobilised eur 371 billion in additional investment. i would like to thank in particular mr molterer, the managing director of the efsi, and the eib will also have the lead responsibility for the implementation of investeu until 2021.
i have to say, madam president, as an austrian farmer, i cannot agree with the praise of my fpö colleague mrs kappel and of mr president hoyer. the eib has been generous in lending to agro-industrial enterprises, such as ukraine's nibulon, one of the world's largest grain producers and exporters, with a turnover of eur 7.2 billion, a profit of eur 560 million, and a loan of eur 71 million in 2016. in 2017, agrofusion will have 21 million tonnes of tomatoes and 7.5 million tonnes of tomatoes. then 2018: kernel sunflowers mainly also in ukraine, 15 000 employees, 1.1 billion turnover, serviced with 250 million, and in particular mhp, in total serviced with 85 million euro from the eib. and this group produces 1.11 million chickens a year and is now doubling its capacity with our loans. and because they want to sell these chickens on the european market, they have established branches in slovakia and the netherlands. we cannot keep up with european farmers with this kind of market dumping. explain to us how a family business can survive when the ukrainian agricultural industry is flooding the european market with cage chickens. you're gonna have to turn around!
the rapporteur. the commission is not in a position to do so. i would like to thank all the gentlemen for their speeches. i would like to say to my spanish s&d colleague that, as president hoyer has already said, an increase in loans to third countries would certainly be desirable, but there is currently no mandate, but i have pointed out that the resilience initiative for the southern neighbourhood and also for the western balkans has been increased by 6 billion by 2021 and that i am sure that in the next period there will also be an external lending mandate for a specific african strategy. i would like to say to my colleagues from the greens and the gue that you are certainly aware that a total of 25% of the bank's lending volume is being used for climate-related projects and that it will be even more in the future. i hope we can agree that this is a positive thing. if you want to change the bank's behavior, you'll have to get a new mandate. president hoyer, you have said something quite right: the bank represents added value for the eu member states. member states paid in eur 14 billion for the bank shares and another eur 3.4 billion for the reserves. in return, over the past 60 years, the eib has provided eur 1 100 billion in loans and eur 3 000 billion in investment. i'd like to write to all the critical colleagues here to consider whether this might be a real deal. i would like to say to mr coburn that the eib will not lose its clout even after a possible brexit - perhaps it will not happen, as mr langen said - but it will be a very important step in the right direction. the remaining 27 member states have committed themselves to replacing the paid-in capital of the united kingdom with their own reserves and to increasing the amount of capital they can call up. some member states have even offered to increase the share capital. that's very positive. i therefore ask my colleagues to support this report in the vote tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i am a little surprised at the direction this debate is taking. one thing is clear: eu aid is not a gift, it is an investment. if the fight against fraud with eu funds is not working in some countries, then something must be done about it. for example, 80% of the eu budget and that was €125.6 billion in 2017 is spent by the countries. that is why they must ensure that when fraud is committed, action is taken. for example, countries such as poland received €10.6 billion, romania €7.3 billion, slovakia €2 billion, hungary €4.5 billion and the czech republic €4.6 billion in 2016. these countries have a massive catch-up here. the proposal gives the eu - the commission - the power to freeze, reduce or stop funding until the problems in the member state are resolved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the grants are conditional. and again, eu grants are not a gift, they are investments. if the behaviour of the recipients does not change, the eu must take action. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european taxpayer is able to pay his taxes in the same way as he pays his taxes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the common budget is the backbone of the union and is based on the principle of solidarity. this means that strong member states are willing to take on a particular responsibility, and the resources available are known to be scarce. it is therefore clear that the use of funds must be subject to specific criteria. if we do not follow common rules, we cannot simultaneously receive billions in aid and make the principle of solidarity absurd. the rule of law is the foundation of the eu, and all member states are obliged to respect the principles of legality and to guarantee legal certainty through the control of independent and impartial courts. if a member state systematically violates these principles, we must be able to react. we therefore support this new mechanism and thank the commission for this initiative. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very good one.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the european parliament has taken a historic decision by initiating article 7 proceedings against hungary. we didn't make it easy for ourselves at the time, but we were criticized for taking so long. this was necessary because we had carefully and thoroughly examined the information available and weighed all the pros and cons responsibly. the report was adopted by parliament in september by a qualified and very large majority. in fact, one might have expected an appropriate response from the council and from hungary. not at all. the hungarian government, which had previously not missed an opportunity to get involved in the process, has since preferred to turn a cold shoulder to parliament. the absence of the commissioner from the debate today is a clear indication of this. it refuses to debate, it has chosen to ignore not only all the concerns and objections of our european friends - yes, we are friends - but also the protests of large sections of the hungarian population. hungary is becoming more and more a democracy in disguise, with a homogenous press, a short-sighted judiciary and an existence-threatening ngo. academic freedom is in jeopardy, and conspiracy theories are replacing political analysis. in view of this, it is more than surprising that the council has still not taken any serious steps to get closer to parliament's decision. it is not unimportant that a member state should increasingly abandon common values. to accept developments in silence is to abandon the european project the common european project . i hope the presidency will not put this matter on the back burner.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. as rapporteur for the competition report, i can also say that parliament has worked together very constructively, very consistently. it is a pleasure to work on competition policy in this parliament, in this period, because the commission takes very clear decisions which are very easy to understand, very well documented and which are adopted and approved in parliament across the political groups, even if the details are being discussed. the interesting thing about this competition report was that we discussed four areas more intensively: general enforcement of competition law, digital developments, environmental developments and the financial and banking sectors. it turns out that although competition law is a sharp and effective weapon, a sharp and effective tool, we will have to think further in the future, especially in the digital sphere. there was also a great deal of agreement among the shadow reporters that you have to evolve here. digital companies that barely charge their end-customers for their sales, that offer services for free and then sell advertising, that try to build market power over years without making a profit, cannot be judged by conventional competition law, not by sales, not by profits, not by purely financial figures. we need to look at the market power of these companies in a completely different way and to think about it in a different way. this is where we need to evolve. in the digital sphere, we must also consider whether we are either developing competition law further or developing something similar in addition to it in the area of protecting democracy. if we have a well-functioning instrument to protect the market from too much corporate power, then that should be worth democracy to us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we should at least consider whether we are going to develop these instruments further. as i said, we are dealing in this report with the work of the commission and not yet with the task of developing it, but i have heard from all the groups here a clear willingness to continue to work actively on this subject and to develop it further in the future. commissioner vestager has been very active. i'm sorry she can't be here today because she's sick. it is also necessary to mention explicitly that cooperation between the commission and parliament is working very well. i ask for the discussion.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. unlike previous reports, this report on competition policy has a very specific focus on two areas, namely digitalisation and harmful tax practices, and for good reason in my view. digital and internet companies in particular are presenting competition policy with entirely new challenges. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. the report mentions these: the amount of data as an indicator of the existence of market power and the proposal not to set thresholds for triggering eu merger control on turnover. i think both are very sensible proposals. the report calls for greater harmonisation of corporate taxation, including a common consolidated corporate tax base. more transparency and simple rules are good, but fiscal policy should be kept separate from competition policy. competition policy is not a suitable instrument for harmonizing fiscal policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commissioner also took the view that the proposed merger of the train divisions of siemens and alstom to form the second largest train manufacturer in the world was in line with the rapporteur's critical stance. a decision is to be taken by 18 february. i hope there is still some form of opinion being formed with the commissioner. i think that would be a very sensible step to take to remain globally competitive.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. as you have seen, a thoroughly constructive debate. i can only thank the shadow reporters for their constructive work. the fact that we are not all 100% happy with the end result is the nature of the matter. i feel the same way. but it was very constructive and consensus-driven, and on the whole, i think, everyone is moving in the same direction. this will also be important - i would like to point this out again, commissioner - in the european elections in may. the european union, we here in brussels, are often accused of being populist, of being all about lobbying, of negotiating everything with the big companies, of doing shady business and of being firmly in the hands of the big companies. in the field of competition law in particular, this commission, and this european parliament too, have shown time and again in recent years that it is a matter of taking clear decisions, that decisions are being taken, that we are not in the hands of some dark forces, but that the european union is a functioning, valuable and worth defending political project. we should use this in may, the competition policy that this union should not be ashamed of but can be proud of, and we should tell the stories we have seen and made here in the last five years.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we need skilled, smart and capable women and men at the top of companies, on boards of directors as well as on the board of directors. the commission put forward a proposal to this effect seven years ago. the european parliament acted very quickly. we have found that we need objective criteria for selection and we also want to be practical. we look at what it looks like in each country: what country has already introduced legislation in this area? what progress has been made in this respect at the voluntary level? that is to say, we voted in the european parliament very practically that objective criteria are needed and that we cannot go far with voluntary action. we need commitment and we need a sanction mechanism to get things done. equality, equal opportunities - this is something that is in the dna of the european union. it is only through the european union that we have made so much progress in so many countries, country by country. i mean, it's something wonderful for business, it's something wonderful for the economy, it's something wonderful for men, and it's something wonderful for women. so, what happened now? many countries hide behind the legal base. what do you mean, "i'm not a cop"? the legal basis is absolutely clear, because only those countries which are not making progress in their own countries are hiding. i therefore ask the romanian presidency, whose initiative i very much welcome, to finally turn the spotlight here on the subject of bringing to light those member states which are hiding. which member states are they? these are countries like hungary. we have now looked at what progress looks like: there is even a step backwards in the companies. i would therefore ask the council presidency to bring these countries to the fore and tell them what they have actually done, and if possible to have it voted on in the council. the european parliament has a very strong position on this and i am very glad that you have now brought this proposal back to the table.
in writing. we need a women's political offensive in europe. both the eu member states and the commission have relegated women's policy to the darkroom. there are many easy-to-implement measures on the table to achieve more equality quickly. it is a pity that the governments of the eu countries have still not given their consent to this! the european parliament has already done its homework. it is unbelievable that the share of women in listed companies in austria has decreased from 6% to 4.8% in 2018. of the 186 board members, only nine are women. now the member states are finally getting serious about gender mainstreaming. it is obvious that where measures have been taken, there has also been a change. however, there must also be serious penalties for companies that do not meet the quota.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the fact that we need an eu anti-fraud programme is, per se, very regrettable, because we should be assuming that all member states are careful with the money of eu taxpayers. unfortunately, this is not always the case. it is important to stress that eu funding is not a gift but an investment. if the fight against fraud does not work, then, as i said, that is very regrettable, and unfortunately it is the case in some member states. it is really time for member states to better exchange, to learn from each other and to also take advantage of the new technological and digital opportunities that we have now. 80 % of the eu budget this was in 2017 125.6 billion euro is spent by the countries. that is why we must ensure that fraud is dealt with. for example, poland received around eur 10 billion in funding in 2017. the public sector just reported one fraud case, private sector 18. i am very pleased and very excited that we have finally put in place such a programme and we must implement it, and for that we need the support of the member states very urgently. tax money must be handled with care. we cannot afford to be negligent in any way. so i thank the rapporteur and i thank you for the programme.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. – mr president, the principle of gender equality is a core value of the european union and it is enshrined in our treaties. the goal of achieving gender equality is crucial to ensuring that the eu policies reflect the perspectives and interests of both women and men. however, there is still a long way to go to reach gender equality within the european union and it is regrettable that gender mainstreaming is not consistently implemented in all eu activities, which prevents the effective implementation of measures to combat gender discrimination and promote gender equality. the union should ensure strategic measures are put in place to enable the member states to respond to women’s rights violations and to ensure member states’ active promotion of the eu charter of fundamental rights. in this context, i call on the member states who have not yet ratified the istanbul convention to finally do so. i indeed believe that the istanbul convention – the first legally binding international instrument on preventing and combating violence against women – can bring change and have a real impact on the lives of women and girls in europe.
in writing. self-learning machines can help us dramatically reduce road traffic fatalities, manage resources more efficiently, reduce our energy consumption, and can be used in many other areas. however, alongside the opportunities, the use of ai systems also involves risks. the use of disinformation campaigns or military applications are two areas where we must be particularly vigilant. false information created and disseminated by ai can have a negative impact on our society. autonomous weapons systems and their use present us with major challenges, linked to ethical issues. we must ensure that moral decisions and the responsibility they imply remain in the hands of the individual and that ethical standards are always the priority! furthermore, artificial intelligence and its applications must remain understandable to us humans, because we must not let artificial intelligence slip away from us. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
in writing. in july 2017, the chinese government announced its plan to become the world's leading artificial intelligence (ai) market. beijing wants to create a $150 billion industry in this area by 2030. the americans are also very active here: this week, us president trump signed an executive order that aims to further stimulate investment in the american ai market and trigger a proliferation of ai. in 2018, the us accounted for more than half of the world's investment in ai. $19.2 billion was invested in ai startups last year alone. the united states, with a market share of 33%, is still far ahead of china, which is at 17%, but is catching up. the european union is also catching up, which is why the commission has increased its annual investment in ai by 70% under the horizon 2020 research and innovation programme. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of the union in the work of the joint undertaking. brussels wants to invest 20 billion euros in ai by 2030. europe needs this investment, as well as a coherent and coordinated approach to retain ai talent and patents in european universities and businesses.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the current winter in my home country of austria has shown that the volunteer fire brigades, the rescue services and other emergency services are excellently prepared for disaster situations, both at local and regional level. we are the european union and we must have the strength not to depend on outside help when major disasters occur, which are unpredictable and which require a supraregional response. i therefore think it is right that the european commission has set up a new eu disaster prevention mechanism. i agree with what several colleagues have already said, namely that we have considerably improved this proposal here in parliament: it is less centralised and less bureaucratic. i am glad that the austrian presidency of the council has finally succeeded in making this happen and that we can now vote on the final result in parliament. the commission's original proposal, which provided for command and control, i.e. command and control at union level, has now been replaced by a package of measures providing for cooperation and promotion. the commission has also proposed that the community should provide financial support for the development of the social economy. the red, white and red model from austria has already played a part in this, and of course the ability to operate without being dependent on outside help.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the debate today once again shows very clearly that we must look at this problem of disaster prevention in a multisectoral way. it is about climate protection, it is about spatial planning, but it is also about education and training in advance - that is, prevention in all areas. we need to be prepared for these kinds of disasters, we need good monitoring. i believe that this union's disaster prevention procedure, which we have discussed today and which we hope will be adopted, will make a very important contribution to the fact that in future we will be able to say to europeans: in the event of disaster, europe will come together. this does not mean that the individual regions, the individual bodies, the member states are relieved of their responsibilities here, but it only means that, if necessary, a europe is ready with financial resources, with technical resources, with know-how, to alleviate the suffering of those affected by natural disasters or by man-made disasters, as far as possible, as efficiently and as quickly as possible.
the commission has already done so. this is not about agriculture. the point is simply that we recognise that plant protection is necessary for the european production of food, food and feed. the question is how this protection is to be achieved. and i think this report shows very clearly that it is not the only way to protect plants by using pesticides in excess. there are options: there are alternative farming methods, there are physical methods, there are less dangerous pesticides; there are so many alternatives today - and we have seen this - that are not being used enough in the member states, that are not being monitored, that are not being controlled. and even if they are controlled and monitored, if in fact violations do not entail sanctions - that's what's at stake today. we are concerned that member states do not create extensive derogations, that pesticides, neonicotinoids, which are already banned, continue to be used with some emergency exceptions. we want to produce for europe, we want food that is safe, that is healthy, that does not harm the environment. we need to do something about the extinction of species. i think this report shows a lot of possibilities. we are talking about a new european agriculture, and that of course also means that we need a new community agricultural policy. we can't discuss this separately.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. commissioner hahn, welcome to the plenary. i'm grateful you're here, and i'd like to address you specifically. as we speak, syria may be in the midst of the last battles with the islamic state, the last domestic battles of kurdish forces and their allies, and the last areas of the country that could be captured in the next few hours. this is an achievement, a great achievement, and europe should be grateful for it. instead, we are once again abandoning the kurds and their allies. the autonomous region in north-eastern syria is democratic, it is diverse, it is not only kurdish, but there are christians living there, there are yazidis living there, there are many arabs living there, secular arabs. these people are trying to build an autonomous region democratically and they are very far along in this. they have schools, they have hospitals, they invest in them with little support from europe. and now they are threatened by a turkish invasion, by erdoğan, who intends to cross the border and go in. and europe is doing nothing to protect them from it. i would ask you, as the neighbourhood commissioner, to put as much pressure on turkey as possible. if that happens, if this project in north-east syria, in kurdistan, is destroyed, europe will also have a problem. 900 european isis fighters are in the prisons there - european citizens, guarded by the kurds. the kurds say: we will not kill them, we will release them if erdogan invades. and these 900 people, 900 fighters, 900 terrorists will be heading for europe. we have a vested interest in ensuring that there is no invasion down there, that there is peace. and we should, as the european union, show our gratitude to our kurdish allies and their allies.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank my colleague mr freund for raising this really central question, namely the security of the syrian people. i myself was in the refugee camp in gaziantep because we organized the refugee aid there from the budget committee. most of the refugees wanted to return to their homeland. they're standing there with their cars, waiting for the starting gun to go back to their villages. do you think that the un security council has a legitimate chance here to create a demilitarized zone in the future, possibly with un blue helmets to make it possible to return here?
the commission has already done so. maybe big question mark hopefully big exclamation mark we are now seeing something like the last tree growing in syria. we too have experienced the effects of war firsthand. of course, what is our so-called refugee drama compared to what the syrians have been through? the misery of leaving everything lying around, of finding a place to stay in the surrounding neighbouring countries, if they had not died in the gunfight or the bombing anyway. let me take this opportunity to appeal once again: we must not allow a conflict to erupt in the region in the future. our chance, the eu's chance, lies in a strong common foreign policy, which intervenes diplomatically in a timely manner, with confidence, by mediating. we can only do that if we depart from the principle of unanimity. it is too late for syria, but i fear that syria will not be the last country to be left behind. and we have to be prepared for that. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i think we're way ahead of our time. i can't imagine we're in a position to judge that now. however, it would be gratifying, of course, if we actually get to a situation where there is something like a safe zone for the syrians. but i can't judge that from waiting here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations for the accession of bosnia and herzegovina to the european union. there have been many, and far too many, appeals and well-meaning assurances, because they were never followed by action. that's why there's still this ethnic tension. a sense of hopelessness has spread, and external influences are felt everywhere. the country has become a playground for geopolitical interests. there is only one way out of this dilemma: a european perspective. but this requires much more than an annual debate in the european parliament. it needs a new dynamic, which must come from us. the people, especially the young, as the recent protests have shown, are waiting for it. let me quote a young woman, a student, from jajce: for our generation, it's not about who's what nationality and what faith, but having a good time together.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission's so often-propagated 'trade for all' is still a long way off. this trade agreement is another continuation of a radical market policy which benefits only the big corporations. sustainability, workers' rights and environmental standards play a minor or even no role in comparison. singapore has not ratified and implemented the eight core labour standards. that is why we need the possibility of sanctions for infringements. but even this is sought in vain in this text. the ics is an improvement on the investment protection agreement, but nothing has changed in the basic problem itself. foreign investors still enjoy special rights of appeal against national decisions. that's not what value-based trading looks like to me. i therefore, as i did in the trade committee, will vote against both the trade agreement and the investment protection agreement with singapore.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, europe is confronted with increased populist and extremist trends which also manifest themselves in sexist and racist hate speech and in backward trends regarding women’s and girls’ rights. the commission, with the support of high representative mogherini, has put gender equality at the centre of the eu’s internal and external action. the strategic engagement for gender equality for the years 2016-2019 has been our framework for the promotion of gender equality and gender mainstreaming in the eu and beyond. in 2019 we are taking stock of progress, identifying gaps and preparing the setting of priorities for the future. in this context, the views of the european parliament are very welcome. i also warmly welcome the agreement reached on the work—life balance proposal. this will offer more choices for parents and carers in terms of reconciling family and professional life. in november 2017, the commission adopted an action plan to tackle the gender pay gap, which comprises a broad and coherent set of more than 20 concrete actions. the majority of these have been implemented and the remaining measures should be concluded this year. reliable data are essential in order to monitor trends in gender equality in the eu. that is why eurostat is currently developing an eu survey on gender-based violence, with the aim of having updated statistics, following on from the eu—wide survey by the fundamental rights agency in 2014. eradicating gender—based violence has been a key priority for the commission. we have just finished a second year of targeted action and awareness raising. we are continuing to push ahead on eu accession to the istanbul convention on gender—based violence. with regard to ratification by the member states, as of today 20 member states have ratified this council of europe convention but, as you know, ratification is being seriously challenged in other countries. the political and public debate around the istanbul convention is a good illustration of the impact of the current backlash against gender equality and women’s rights in europe. misleading arguments about the convention and its measures are being used in public debate. we must confront these and explain that the sole purpose of the convention is to prevent and combat violence against women and domestic violence against children, women and men, without any hidden purposes or effects. this situation is paralysing some member states in the process towards ratification of the convention and the eu’s accession to it. time is running out if we are to conclude that process before the end of this parliament’s term. gender equality is not only a core value of the eu but it is also central to the union’s external action. i am glad that this parliament has welcomed the good progress made on implementing international cooperation and development under the eu gender action plan. this plan focuses on the enhancement of women’s integrity, economic and social rights and on participation and the elimination of gender—based violence. the council has welcomed a new and ambitious eu strategic approach to ‘women, peace and security’, which explicitly combines internal and external policies and requires analysis of, and response to, the gender-related root causes of inequalities, violence and conflict. lastly, we need to continue our sustained efforts. this is one of the reasons why, in september 2017, the eu and the united nations jointly launched the spotlight initiative with the objective of eliminating all forms of violence against women and girls worldwide. backed by an initial contribution of eur 500 million, our ambition is to see this initiative being transformational for the lives of women and girls worldwide, in particular for young people and those living in the most marginalised and vulnerable situations. the commission will continue its engagement in the field. i count on parliament’s and the council’s continued commitment to make this happen.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, let me start by thanking the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs for a really fruitful cooperation on this resolution. women throughout the european union continue to face discrimination, harassment, are denied equal access to participation in public and political life, and suffer sexual and gender-based violence and abuse in public places and at home. we are now seeing a backlash against women’s rights, a backlash that hurts us all. we need to be alert. the advances of the last few decades are fragile and should by no means be taken for granted. ultra-conservative, anti-feminist and religious groups systematically call gender equality into question and use religion, tradition or culture to legitimise violations of women’s rights. this includes organised lobbying against abortion, reproductive health rights and sexual education reforms. these attacks provide a powerful illustration of the extent and the nature of the backlash against women’s rights and gender equality in europe. in this resolution we call on the european union to put words into action. i call on the union and the member states to commit to the realisation of women’s human rights, accelerate the implementation of all women’s rights instruments, keep women’s rights on the highest level of the political agenda at all times and, finally, invest in women’s and girls’ rights and in women’s organisations. we also need to ensure that national and regional budgets include increased dedicated investment to secure women’s rights. equally, women’s organisations and experts should be included in all regional and global discussions on all issues and in national delegations to the intergovernmental meetings. finally, i salute the frequently under-funded but absolutely vital work of women’s human rights defenders. these activists are often targeted because of their efforts to promote gender equality.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i hope that you will be the future president, because i am sure that in the future you will be representing scenario 1 in the commission and that we have the best starting point. but we can't make it too easy. this parliament is an equal partner. we must show - not just now in the election campaign, but also in the constant debate - who are the forces, who are the individual members of this house who are currently working to ensure that this sustainable policy in europe - whether in climate issues, whether in agricultural issues, whether in social issues - is not implemented. because we heard it again today: it is the colleagues in this house who are spreading fake news, who are making unfounded, unscientific claims that climate policy is putting jobs at risk, that sustainable agriculture without pesticides is putting our agriculture at risk. this is the fake news that we have to fight against now in the campaign and in the debate every day. i think the commission has put forward something good. it will be up to us to implement it.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation. this umbrella regulation is certainly one of the most important dossiers of the period that is coming to an end and sets the course for regional policy from 2021 to 2027. i think the result is really a success for the strength and quality of cohesion policy. we are also very concerned about the fact that the council has not yet taken a decision on the budget. we greens also see cohesion policy as a visible sign of european solidarity. in some regions, the funds used for this purpose are also the only public investment. they're being used to fight climate change, to fight poverty, and they're creating jobs. they are important for investment in research and development and for cross-border projects. the greens were very concerned in the negotiations that all regions should continue to benefit from cohesion policy and that the partnership principle and the involvement of local and regional stakeholders, the social partners and, in particular, civil society should be strengthened. we have paid particular attention to the maintenance and also the development of the horizontal principles. this means equality, non-discrimination, sustainable development and respect for human rights. climate protection is also being strengthened, which was of course a particular concern for us greens; climate proofing and the 30% target are certainly important milestones in the further development of regional policy.from a green perspective, we are very critical of the transfer possibilities to other eu funds. i am therefore pleased that we have found a compromise which limits them very much. and we too, of course, reject the macroeconomic conditionality of regional policy. we think it is wrong to cut funds to regions because the budgetary and deficit criteria are not to be met at national level.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i would like to ask mr kölmel whether he thinks it is right that we should continue to make research expenditure and scientific expenditure available for research infrastructure through the structural funds, so that scientific and research infrastructure is also available to the population and to those involved in rural areas. do you think that would be wise?
the commission has already done so. i think that today's discussion has made it quite clear that the cohesion funds and the regional development funds are actually putting into practice a core part of the european idea. here, ideas become strategies, ideas become tangible projects for the benefit of all. i think it's a bit like education policy, and that's why i'm glad that all regions are going to benefit from this. it is important to encourage talent, as in school, and to reduce deficits where they exist. it makes no sense to limit ourselves to one or the other. individuals - i.e. regions, project promoters - but also individual member states and the european union as a whole can benefit. but another principle of education is that it doesn't make sense to punish children when parents do something wrong, for example, when parents cheat on taxes, or deny children access to school: this is actually macro-economic conditionality being transferred to education. i think that's something we don't need.
in writing. a heartfelt thank you to the rapporteurs for their work. the priorities in the eu budget must finally change. we need to move away from stubborn investment in cows, to sustainable investment in the future. the commission's proposals, together with the european parliament's report, are important steps in that direction. simplification and de-bureaucratization are essential in the award of regional aid. european cohesion policy is a unique investment instrument for regions at eu level, for all regions! it is important to me that this principle should continue to apply! the aim of cohesion policy is to promote economic, social and territorial cohesion. cohesion policy is thus a strong, visible sign of the european union's solidarity. there are still serious disparities in development between european regions, and by regions with low growth and low income i mean the regions with low growth and low income. we can reduce these differences with effective cohesion policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. i ask for referral back to the committee responsible so that interinstitutional negotiations can begin.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we all know the numbers: a trillion euros of potential tax revenue is lost every year. this is about eur 2 000 per eu citizen. the commission has not yet received any information on the alleged infringement. that's unfair, and that's not fair. it also shows that on average, small and medium-sized companies pay 26%, and large corporations like google or amazon about 1%. we have to stop this state. but it must also be said very clearly here: the proposals have been put forward by the commission and the european parliament. the common tax base for companies, country-by-country reporting for companies, the digital tax, the financial transaction tax - all of this we have agreed and decided on here. we are always failing because of the same facts: the disunity of the member states, the lack of european cooperation, the disunity and selfishness of many and the need for unanimity in the council. we have too many tax havens and too little room for manoeuvre because of too little europe. for more justice, we need unanimity, not majority. european tax policy is the prerequisite for removing inequalities and developing solutions for citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in tax justice, it's not five minutes before noon, it's five minutes after noon. the commission commissioner moscovici, you have done your job, we in the european parliament have done our job. now it is up to the esteemed finance ministers all over europe to act. please do that! take this with you on the way. the unimaginable 825 billion euros we lose every year through tax fraud, tax evasion. what we could do with that money! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for austria, what does this mean for my home country? almost 13 billion euros! what can we do about it? that's almost half of the health care budget. so unimaginable things that people in europe also need. and that is why unanimity must be removed. ministers of finance, please act! it's really high time!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the authorisation of medicinal products and medical devices must be based on uniform and comprehensible scientific criteria throughout europe. the fact that there are different national medical assessment systems means that some products are authorized earlier in one member state than in others. the new cooperation mechanism could help to speed up access to the latest and best medicines and treatments for europeans and ensure that they are assessed according to the same criteria throughout the european union. this includes medicines, medical devices and products such as prosthetic limbs and artificial joints. joint european action in the areas of clinical trials, scientific consultation and evaluation of new technologies on the market not only makes processes more efficient and faster, but also allows for much more thorough testing procedures before a product is authorised on the internal market. we call on the council to stop preventing this from happening.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. it is becoming painfully clear to all of us that we are moving closer and closer to a world free of nuclear weapons. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and if we do not manage to come together as the european union now, then we will become the playing field between america and russia and a new nuclear battleground for the world. i therefore call on the council to take initiatives and to reach a common position. we cannot allow our response to be a buildup of arms in europe. our response must be to call for a new disarmament conference, to save and develop the existing treaties and to counterbalance the cancellation of international treaties with transparency and openness.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is quite sensible in itself to unify these systems in europe-wide transport, i.e. to create a single system for lorries so that they do not have to carry different systems in the car. on the other hand, it also means that the national vignette is to be replaced. after seeing what happened in october in the bonnefoy report, what a mess this house has become because you did not know what was going to be taken in now with this mileage-dependent toll and what was not, you can imagine where the journey is going. i think that the journey here is also very clear in that they say that they want to introduce a mileage-based toll for passenger cars at the end of the day. again, for trucks this system makes perfect sense. we simply reject it for light vehicles, because that would mean the de facto replacement of the vignette in austria, which we reject. once again, in the context of the bonnefoy report, in the context of the ecj ruling last week, this is a clear sign that a mileage-based toll is to be introduced throughout europe, and that will not happen with us. the second aspect is local public transport. we have recently decided to introduce electric buses, which is another additional cost which will of course be borne by consumers at the end of the day. all in all, if you look at all these packages together, it means that mobility is going to become a luxury, both private and public transport will become a luxury for people. we can't have this.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. after the debate this afternoon on tax justice and fairness, where we are constantly blocked by unanimity in the council in implementing our proposals, we have an example of the european union's ability to act with the new transfer regulation. it could be said that just as we have abolished roaming charges for international calls, we are now abolishing roaming charges for money transfers to and from member states which are not yet part of the euro area. all euro payments outside the euro area but within the eu must now be charged the same fee as for domestic payments. that's good. this strengthens the internal market, creates cheaper transfers, leads to more transparency, creates more competitiveness for all payment service providers in the european union and can be implemented by 150 million citizens and six million businesses in the eu, who will benefit from it. we have shown that we are constantly developing the internal market. the abolition of roaming charges for telephone calls is followed by the abolition of roaming charges for money transfers within europe, but outside the euro zone. the rapporteur, mrs eva maydell, would like to thank you very much.
i have to say, madam president, i just want to remind you that we should also consider the sustainable development goals. this is particularly true of goal 6, which is clean water, and goal 7, renewable energy. i think it would be important to focus on the sustainable development goals, especially in inland navigation, and to ensure that we have the highest quality water - the best drinking water possible - and mobility that is sustainable on our inland waters.
i have to say, madam president, i think protectionism is the wrong answer. there's an international competition. and backdoors exist in software, in hardware, and they're offered in many places on all continents. i think it is therefore important to focus on confidence building measures and, in particular, to redesign the tendering process so that one company or institution designs the architecture of the system, a second company installs the hardware and software and a third company ensures maintenance and operation. then you have three different companies or institutions that need to know in detail how the system works. then you have security. and then if one of these companies is still headquartered in europe, then we have two international providers that we can trust, that are certified and where you can reliably see how it works. we have the cyber security act, and we have the cyber security competence centres that we're going to set up. europe has already made a great deal of progress in this area with the basic regulation on data protection and, finally, with the copyright directive, where agreement was reached today. we have enisa, we have the nis directive so there is already a lot going on here, and we need to continue to work in this area.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the commission has already done so. we are talking in the european parliament about animals, about sentient beings. and when we look at the transport of animals within the european union and especially those that have destinations outside the european union, then the suspicion must be strengthened that animals are not considered as sentient beings. we must not forget that the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and that it is the european parliament which has always been a party to the treaty of rome. we have framework conditions which, however, as mr dohrmann has already said, are not respected in many member states, which are not controlled and, if they are controlled, are punished by penalties which can usually be paid more or less by the freight forwarder. i would like to say that the commission is very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of health inspections in the community. because we know from the evidence that when animals are under great stress before slaughter, for example, that also negatively affects the quality of the meat and therefore also negatively affects the consumption by humans. i am asking you to make improvements as quickly as possible.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not contrary to what commissioner andriukaitis says with alarming regularity, there is not all that is right with the transport of animals on europe's roads. and i would say that this report conclusively proves that the transport of animals does not comply with european laws, especially when it comes to exporting animals to third countries - to russia, turkey or lebanon. the european court of justice has clearly ruled that european laws apply up to the point of destination and that transport which does not comply with these rules must be prohibited. if mrs ribeiro here were to suggest to the conservatives that it is radical policy to demand that european laws be respected, then i would be happy to make radical policy. i also do not think it is radical to advocate a reduction in transport times for animals, to prevent suffering where possible. i would also ask members of the european people's party, at least those who still have a heart for animals, to vote in favour of our report today.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. there's a saying that the degree of civilization in a culture is determined by how it treats animals. if we look at europe, and in particular at the way livestock are treated here, i can only say that there is a lot wrong here. the fact that animals are transported from one country to many other countries, often for many hours, for days, often in extreme heat, is one of the examples where the european community is called upon to implement a set of rules to prevent this from happening. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the suffering that is being produced here is such that i say it is urgent that we put a stop sign. we had the discussion many years ago that eight hours is enough in terms of transportation time. i shall also be asking for this because i hope that at least within this generous time limit the european people's party can also agree. if i had my way, four hours of transport max would be enough. what i am also seeking, and what is particularly important to me, is that we finally implement an export ban in third countries so that these very images of animals being transported under unspeakable suffering to turkey, russia, the middle east, north africa, will finally be a thing of the past. i can only hope that you have the heart to give your consent here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the human rights situation in saudi arabia has not been a concern for us for the first time. we should deal with this more often, and it needs clear signals to riyadh. the saudis' constant assertions that they are willing to submit to modern standards are worthless if they cannot withstand a reality check. many things do not correspond to the official glossary, not only the murder of jamal khashoggi, which is a mockery of all civilized norms, or the regular publicly celebrated executions, or the use of physical force as a means of punishment, or the still unfinished imprisonment of our sakharov prize winner raif badawi. the systematic disregard for women's human rights is the fertile ground on which such thinking can develop in the first place. if we want to make a lasting difference, we have to start here. as long as women are treated as second-class citizens, placed under male guardianship and subjected to physical violence, there will be no awareness of human rights. the many women in saudi arabia who are rising up against this state of affairs deserve our full support.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. madam president, in accordance with rule 59 (3) of the rules of procedure, i ask you to put the amendments which we have tabled and which have been forwarded to you and the roll-call vote to a separate vote.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by thanking the rapporteur, mr daniel dalton, and the respective council presidencies for the work done on the proposals for a regulation and directive on the system for the improved exchange of criminal records of third—country nationals, ecris—tcn. in particular, let me thank both co—legislators’ unceasing efforts to find a solution that is acceptable for all parties. the commission proposed the ecris—tcn system following the terrorist attacks in paris in november 2015. the aim was to close loopholes in the existing system for the exchange of criminal records, which is ecris, by ensuring better access for member states’ competent authorities to criminal records of third—country nationals. the proposals were included in the list of 2017 interinstitutional priorities for delivery before the european parliament elections. with tomorrow’s vote, the european parliament is delivering on this objective. as a result, we will achieve an improved system for the exchange of criminal records that contributes to the european area of freedom, security and justice. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadows in particular for their efforts to solve two main issues: first, the conditions under which fingerprints can be included in the ecris—tcn system; second, the inclusion of dual nationals, notably eu citizens who also hold the nationality of a third country. i am satisfied that we have found a balanced solution that is acceptable to all sides and that will ensure that the ecris—tcn system fulfils its purpose. the new system will allow the closing of loopholes in information exchange on previous convictions and this will be done on the basis of reliable identity information and with due regard to the rights of the individual. the commission therefore fully supports the compromise found by the co—legislators and looks forward to tomorrow’s vote confirming it.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, let me start by thanking our rapporteur, mr dalton, and my fellow shadow rapporteurs for all their work on this rather technical and very sensitive proposal. it has been a long walk that has brought us here today, and i am very sad to tell you that i cannot support the outcome of the trilogue negotiations on the regulation. i am deeply disappointed at the decision to include dual nationals in the ecris-tcn system. from the beginning, this was clearly a red line for me as the shadow rapporteur for the alde group in parliament. it is alarming that the council has not been able to prove the necessity or the proportionality of such a far-reaching measure. this only proves that their arguments about dual nationals trying to hide their eu nationality are completely unfounded. the significant difference in treatment between eu nationals, non-eu nationals and dual nationals introduced by the proposal is clearly discriminatory. it has been described as differentiated treatment: with all due respect, that is a description for alternative facts. ecris-tcn, as proposed now, fails to respect fundamental rights and non-discrimination and it also violates primary union law. if the proposal is adopted as it stands it will result, for the first time, in a large category of union citizens being treated under union law no longer as union citizens but as nationals of third countries. de facto, this proposal will introduce the idea of first-class and second-class union citizens. i will vote against this and i would ask and urge the other political groups to do the same.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would also like to thank angelika niebler for this discussion, because it's simply about creating trust systems. we want to be able to trust the internet in our devices again, and we don't want protectionism, because of course there is a number one issue worldwide: the safety of our citizens when using their devices. we do not want to see the military or civilian levels of the community getting into similar trouble. that is why mr niedermayer has made it clear that it is not just china, but that it should be our common concern worldwide to establish this cyber security; this is a very crucial area. i thank mrs reda for the cyber security centres, because of course 28 member states can achieve much more by coordinating together. and i also thank mrs reda for putting forward the proposal for the trilogue tomorrow, because it is very important for us that this should be done quickly for our citizens before the elections. we know that the nis directive and the data protection directive must be implemented accordingly, and we want to establish these centres accordingly, close to training centres, at technical colleges, at universities, and above all to enable our small and mediumsized enterprises to access security in the first place. in this respect, i believe that the digital fund, the defence fund and the connecting europe facility and horizon europe will be of great help.
madam president, we are debating today a fundamental step in defining a european cybersecurity strategy that will aim at setting up state of the art capabilities in europe. the new framework proposed by the commission is a true answer to the need to coordinate member states’ efforts in cooperation with the industrial sector to grant our citizens and customers an adequate supply of safe products and services without depending upon imported solutions from non-eu countries. thanks to intense negotiations in committee, and the good cooperation achieved with the rapporteur, julia reda, and the shadows, we now have a solid and balanced text which ensures that the european competence centre will work as a coordinator to set priorities and avoid the duplication of initiatives in member states in a good connection with enisa’s new mandate under the cybersecurity act. secondly, the centre will award funding from the digital europe programme and horizon europe, giving concrete support to research and innovation initiatives to help them to reach the market stage. thirdly, it would be possible to respect member states’ existing approaches to cybersecurity by allowing synergies between civilian and military applications, thus allowing the pooling of financial resources and avoiding overlaps of precious expertise. last but not least, as a rapporteur for the digital europe programme, i am very happy about the coherent and clear approach given to the governance structure of the centre and its relationship, together with the national coordination centres, with the network of digital innovation hubs provided for under digital europe.
in writing. this regulation is an important part and instrument of the new european union cybersecurity strategy, which aims to give europe a long-term perspective on cybersecurity and to ensure trust in digital technologies. the eu has already created a european network and information security agency (enisa) and adopted a directive on network and information security (nis directive), which is currently being implemented by the member states. the cybersecurity act consists of two parts: the first part sets out the role and mandate of enisa in order to strengthen the agency. the second part introduces a european cybersecurity certification scheme in the form of a voluntary framework to enhance the security of connected devices and digital products and services. enisa needs to play a key role in the definition of european cybersecurity systems together with member states and relevant stakeholders. the scope of the proposal should be clarified with regard to certification, according to itre. on the one hand, this regulation should cover not only products and services but the whole life cycle. therefore, processes must also be included in the scope of the regulation. on the other hand, certain areas of member states' competence should be clearly excluded, namely public security, national defence and the area of criminal law.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my, our, european model of governance is the ecosocial market economy. that includes regulating the market. this means that we must first of all regulate the market in one direction so that weaker players are not disadvantaged by the crushing dominance of the big players. that is what we are doing with the directive on unfair trading practices in the food chain. we are ending the existing fouls of large retail chains at the expense of farmers and other economically dependent suppliers. and we're putting an end to the scourges of late payments and short-term cancellations of deliveries, because they could threaten the economic existence of farmers. ladies and gentlemen, we also end the unfair and unfair business relationships by preventing the refusal to put contracts in writing. and i am therefore also pleased that we are extending this scheme to third countries, that we are creating anonymous complaint possibilities for farmers and an alternative dispute resolution procedure. i thank the austrian presidency for its contribution to finally putting an end to unfair trade practices.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not mr president, it was very inspiring to hear you talk about your vision for the future of europe and the role slovakia can play. your country is located in the heart of europe, on the dividing line between east and west - separated for decades by the iron curtain and at the same time connected by the danube, one of europe's vital arteries. since the reunification of our continent, slovakia has undergone an astonishing development, which some would not have imagined. the separation from the czech republic was peaceful and slovakia was able to develop economically very positively, contrary to some forecasts. slovakia was the first member state in the region to meet the convergence criteria for adopting the euro. this has contributed to the remarkable economic recovery. these developments are extremely positive and your country is well on its way to becoming an important factor in europe. you proved that, not least with your presidency of the eu two years ago. but where there's a lot of light, there's a lot of shadow. unfortunately, the success has also magically attracted the moths, and for years there has been speculation about the influence of the mafia and corrupt mechanisms, including those linked to european funds. investigative journalist ján kuciak wanted to shed light on the dark and paid for it with his life. this brutal murder of him and his partner has shocked the european public, mobilized slovak civil society and led to political consequences in your country. the european parliament has set up a rule of law working group within the libe committee to deal in principle with these processes, which are not confined to your country. we shall vote on this at the next part-session. the balance sheet for your country is positive in many respects. significant progress has been made in solving the murders, although the perpetrators are still not really known. and it is good to highlight cooperation with europol, a real european added value. however, doubts remain as to whether you have really made any lasting progress in terms of both the independence of the judiciary and the freedom of the press. we urge you not to give up on this and to support parliament in its efforts to create a rule of law mechanism which will allow for continuous evaluation irrespective of such tragic events. mr. prime minister, this is not interference in the internal affairs of your country. the rule of law is primarily a matter of people's need for security. nobody wants to lecture your country. it is a question of common rules and a common understanding of the law. it's the only way east and west can grow together. president juncker spoke today of the two lungs of europe. and that is why it is necessary to examine critically the role of the western countries. there are also some problems to be assessed here. all too often the east is seen as an extension of the factory, where short-term profits can be made thanks to low wages and poor working conditions. this is not sustainable, neither for the east nor for the west. nor is there any brain drain caused by the increasing migration of labour. the creation of a european labour authority could help to redress these imbalances. we support you in these efforts, and if we do not seize this opportunity and others such as the creation of a european unemployment insurance scheme now, we risk the disintegration of this union. it is about sustainability and not just about short-term projects motivated by domestic politics. the protection of our environment and the achievement of climate targets must not be put on the back burner. climate change does not stop at national borders. the project concerns us all, east and west. but we will only be able to win people for sustainable change if this is accompanied by more fairness and social justice. this is no longer a matter of national competence. european action is needed decisive and forward-looking. east and west will only grow together if common solutions are sought: basic social security, minimum wages and equal pay at work, fair conditions in the digital sector, etc. the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in its efforts to achieve a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. you've already done a lot for this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thanked kati piri personally and i won't repeat it here. as a long-time journalist, i am particularly appalled by the situation of press freedom in turkey, and there is no improvement in sight. because journalists are still in prison in turkey for doing their job. i also find it unacceptable that foreign media representatives are being deprived of their accreditation, as was the case with the correspondents of zdf and tagesspiegel. we austrians are particularly concerned about the case of max zirngast. the journalist spent four months in prison without charge and is still not allowed to leave the country. nevertheless, we must not shut the door in front of the almost 50% of turks who reject the government's course. the suspension of the accession negotiations is not directed against the turkish people but is a reaction to the current government under president erdoğan. we must make it clear to the people that we are not giving up on the democratic and pro-european forces in turkey.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not in just over two months, europe will go to the polls again, and as with brexit, the us presidential election and the french presidency, we are facing a particular challenge, which is that we are bombarded on the internet and especially on social media with disinformation, with fake news and with propaganda articles. and they're often worded in a way that many users will have a hard time distinguishing fact from fiction, information from propaganda, or truth from lies. i therefore fully welcome the fact that a separate section of the european external action service is dealing with the defence of these anti-democratic outbreaks. i believe, however, that these can only be first steps. the problem i see is that technological progress has long since overtaken countermeasures, and it is constantly doing so. on the whole, we are still fighting yesterday's disinformation with yesterday's means. when we look at the field of artificial intelligence, we shudder at what's coming or what's already on the market. it literally puts words into the mouths of people who have never made them, and the fake video is indistinguishable from the real one. how can a politician prove that he never said that when it was just as heard and seen, albeit fictitious? in conclusion, let me thank all those who have contributed to the preparation of this report. it was my last stint as a shadow reporter. i will not be a member of the next parliament. it has been a particular pleasure for me, as a representative of austria, to have helped shape the european union. i hope that this process will not be held back by nationalist or populist currents, because only a common, united and strong europe can face the great challenges of the future.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. we must take an example from the younger generation's sense of responsibility, because their future is at stake. if the climate were a bank, it would have been saved by now. there can be no more "this way". in 2017, carbon emissions were at an all-time high. we need radical measures in all areas, from transport to industry to energy supply, and at european level. because climate change does not stop at the border. the eu must become a climate superpower. the eu-wide, socially balanced carbon tax must be introduced quickly, plastic waste must be substantially reduced and glyphosate must finally be banned completely. you can also take a look at austria. 70% of our electricity comes from renewable energy, not nuclear power.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am shocked by this because there is a clear mandate from a majority of the british people, a majority in favour of leaving the european union accordingly. and it's completely irrelevant whether you feel it's good or bad, it's also irrelevant whether i feel it's good or bad. it is a question of respect for democracy and for the majority decisions of a population which has set a clear course. and i can only appeal to you to stop playing tricks, to go around the corner and back door and set up a second referendum. decisions are to be respected. and even if we had a second referendum, let's say it's now about staying in the uk, how does the game go? will the situation change again in a few months? do we have a third referendum? i'm not sure. if we are to take ourselves seriously and reform this european union too, we must respect the rules of the game and must take a clear, clean and fair path.
i have to say, madam president, it is tragic what is happening in the united kingdom at the moment. a nation which can look back with justified pride on its history and which owes so much to europe is in the process of destroying itself and becoming a laughing stock. without direction and political guidance, britannia is in danger of sinking. this is an emotional moment for many of us, one that leaves us stunned, sad, even angry. a whole generation will suffer the consequences of these events. at this moment in history, we cannot afford to make any more mistakes. we should be guided by a quality which is rightly attributed to the british: pragmatism. we must therefore give our british friends one last chance, otherwise it would be ignorant self-righteousness. this signal must be coming from london. the united kingdom's continued presence is still the most sensible option. i think that this needs to be legitimized by a referendum, which, unlike the previous one, must be binding. and above all, we must do everything we can to finally bring clarity to the three million citizens of the union in the united kingdom and the one and a half million britons on the continent. there's still a lot of uncertainty here. there's not enough going on here. these people deserve a lot more respect. they have made their life choices on a different basis and must not be allowed to become a pawn.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to all of us that if there is no change in the attitude of the united kingdom, there will be a chaotic, hard brexit on 29 march. and we must also be clear: those who are not prepared to talk to each other across party lines cannot solve any problem of the present or the future. the economic, environmental, social, technological and democratic challenges can only be met by europe acting together across party lines and through a united europe in the world. that is the point of the european parliament elections. that is the composition of the next commission. and this reality is in stark contrast to the political failure of the political leaders in the united kingdom, but also in other political parties and countries within the european union. let's look at the murders of journalists in malta and slovakia, the blocked rule of law process against hungary and poland, the eu bashing of populists and nationalists in hungary, italy, the czech republic and romania. the european idea is being threatened from within. we must reject the threat from within in the elections to the european parliament. we are not solving any problem in europe with blame, lies, anti-semitism, nationalism and isolation, not even brexit, but only with a new form of basic consensus with each other.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would first like to thank my esteemed colleague marian harkin of the social affairs committee and also of the working party on nurses for her important report, but also the commission, because the commission does an annual job here by providing an excellent tool for the reform needs of the eu member states. however, the fact is that many member states are not living up to their responsibilities and are making little or no effort to address the clearly identified problem areas and most urgent challenges with concrete reform measures, especially when it comes to ensuring the sustainability of the financiability of social systems. i think that in future the commission should have a stronger instrument to warn, to remind and also to impose much tougher sanctions, especially where voter gifts, failure to reform structures and even mismanagement are disrupting budgets, affecting the stability of countries, not just smaller, weaker countries but also large states in southern and western europe. now is the time for reform!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european parliament has been calling for years for the european bailout fund, the esm, to be developed into the european monetary fund. we have already done so in our report on the causes and effects of the greatest economic, financial and social crisis. we did so in our own-initiative report on the review and control of the troika, and we do so again today, in the full conviction that we are drawing further lessons from the financial and sovereign debt crisis, creating a stronger economic and monetary union and contributing to financial stability in the european union. we want this european monetary fund, of course, to be based on community law, under the control of the european parliament and not merely as an intergovernmental, intergovernmental instrument. we want to use this monetary fund to help member states in need of stability aid, but only under strict conditions and reforms. we want this fund to have at least 500 billion euros and possibly be part of the european budget and to also provide the ultimate joint guarantee for the banking union's resolution fund as ultima ratio. this fund is necessary to make europe more independent, to make europe more stable, to strengthen the euro and to be able to intervene in europe without foreign aid in case of emergency and to support the commission in its work on recovery and aid programmes. we support this development and ask the member states to do everything possible to create the conditions for this.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not president tajani made some very irritating remarks yesterday about the role of mussolini. many people in europe saw them as trivializing and relativizing this dark period in italian and european history. and unfortunately, this is not the first time our president has made a public appearance through arbitrary interpretations of history. all this is not in line with our basic understanding and is contrary to the understanding of the impartiality of this office. mr bullmann criticised tajani's statements yesterday and expressed our concern. on behalf of our group, we call on the president to comment immediately and in detail on his statements and we reserve the right to take further steps. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i am proud of our work in the european parliament. we are the engine of closing tax loopholes. i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their report. if the member states implement what is now on the table, it would be tantamount to a revolution in european tax policy. we are missing 825 billion euros because of tax fraud. what could we do with this crazy sum? all young people could have a chance of employment. but what is it failing at? to the member states the unanimity on taxation must be abolished! for almost two years, the finance ministers have been blocking the way to tax transparency. give me the public corporate tax returns. we want to know where big corporations pay their taxes and where they don't. and finally, the minimum tax rates across europe! i would ask you all to support this demand in the chamber tomorrow when we vote on the report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. with these 410 recommendations against tax evasion, money laundering and tax avoidance, for more tax justice and fairness, we are putting on the table the largest package of demands ever. this shows that we know what is necessary and that we have a large majority in the european parliament for what is necessary. we have the support of the commission. we have a problem: we lack the political will in the member states to really take up the fight. and we have the unanimity principle that allows for blockages here. i therefore call on the member states to end the blockade. eliminate the unanimity requirement, and we will have the digital tax, and we will have a common tax base for corporate taxes, and we will have country-specific tax reporting, and we will have the financial transaction tax, and the principle of ... (the president withdraws the speaker.)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the rule of law and democracy are essential if people are to feel secure. trust is only possible when rules are respected, corruption and political arbitrariness are prevented and freedom of expression is respected. this is true not only at national level but also at intergovernmental level. the concern for development in individual member states is therefore not an interference in internal affairs but rather a european responsibility. in many member states there is cause for concern as to whether this basic concept is actually being respected. in the case of poland and hungary, the corresponding article 7 procedures are already under way. in malta and slovakia, the murder of daphne galizia and ján kuciak, who were investigating the criminal dimensions of corruption in their countries, has alarmed the european public. our working group has been working intensively on the process of solving these crimes and the structures in the judicial system of the countries concerned. the question of whether this constituted a systematic breach of the rule of law was also relevant. there are indeed structural problems in both countries. in the case of malta, the venice commission has been consulted on this matter and its proposals are being taken up. the european added value of europol's activities is also a positive aspect. unfortunately, there are also legitimate doubts about whether any real lasting consequences are being drawn, both in terms of the independence of the judiciary and the freedom of the press. we can't let up right now. we need a european awareness of the rule of law. and that is why the establishment of a rule of law mechanism of our own, which the european parliament has long been calling for, is a top priority for us. the commission's lack of clarity on this matter and its readiness to make a sort of half-hearted withdrawal is more than regrettable.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, dear commissioner, i would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs for reaching another milestone in the completion of the clean energy package, which will provide our citizens with a greener market-based system that better answers the interconnected reality of our european electricity market. as shadow rapporteur for the regulation of risk preparedness in the electricity sector, i strongly welcomed the commission’s proposal, which is very much needed, as was sadly shown by the uncoordinated cross-border response to the cold spell that affected southern europe in january 2017. in line with the emergency and restoration network code, we worked on structured multilevel frameworks that oblige member states to define and coordinate their strategies ex-ante. timely assistance will be enhanced by programming solidarity interventions in a clear and predictable manner, in particular by fixing compensation schemes in advance. i believe the agreement negotiated by our rapporteurs has secured three key elements. it delivers a truly union approach thanks to a unique risk assessment methodology approved but acer and the strong involvement of the regional coordination centres in all phases of the planning procedure. it provides for greater transparency and incentives for data sharing, with safeguards for confidentiality, and it minimises collective costs arising from supply disruption and market distortion by allowing non-market-based solutions only as a last resort. the future implementation of this regulation will successfully lower the risk of black-outs and it will also lower the electricity bills for consumers while decreasing our member states’ dependence on third countries’ energy supply. at the end, i would like to conclude by thanking all the rapporteurs and the negotiating teams for the fruitful and efficient cooperation.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i just wanted to ask mr. blanco lópez if it is true that all non-commercial users are exempt from liability in the future when they upload and download?
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i wanted to ask mr blanco lópez if it is true that all non-commercial users are thus exempt from liability and that therefore the litigation industry can no longer sue ordinary citizens for copyright infringement, but that in future this will be the sole responsibility of the corresponding platforms.
i have to say, madam president, the debate here shows that we live in a lively, passionate parliamentarism. we disagree on a lot of things. but in any case, i don't think anyone in this room got bored today. copyright is out of date, we agree. internet giants make money, and a lot of artists don't see it. and it's those people who don't make a lot of money, who don't produce a lot of hits, who don't write any best-sellers, who need us to find solutions, because they're living in increasingly precarious conditions. so we can't destroy the internet, but we have to adapt copyright to the internet. i am against private internet companies enforcing the rights of creatives, artists and artists at the expense of the freedom of information and expression of all. and that's why: the concept of comprehensive platform liability leads to upload filters and these inevitably lead to censorship on the internet. my concern in this whole process has been, and always has been, to protect the creatives in particular. they should have a corresponding right to receive a fair and adequate remuneration. i am therefore absolutely disappointed with the result compared with what we voted in the legal affairs committee.
the rules of procedure, mr president, are as follows: i refer to article 115, which requires us to work with the greatest possible transparency. we have new rules on the transparency of rapporteurs since 11 february. i have heard that since we opened the sitting last night, there have been lobby meetings by industry on this bill which we have now voted on. i would ask you as president to clarify and publish this, if it has happened, that lobby meetings with members of parliament were held in the evening during a session and journalists were not allowed in. in particular, i would also ask you to promote the following: women protesters have been called "paid protesters" because they come from civil society and visit us here in the european parliament to talk to us. we cannot allow people who come to us to be called 'paid protesters' in the european parliament. i would ask you as president to condemn this publicly.
on behalf of a number of members sufficient to reach the low threshold. – mr president, i speak on behalf of the 38+ members. first of all, a big thank you to everybody who has worked so hard on protecting artists and creatives. unfortunately, the directive requires further adjustments. last week, the rapporteur’s own national party publicly announced that the directive, as it stands, is unclear on upload filters. they said that they would avoid upload filters in germany’s implementation. two hundred thousand people went on the streets and five million signed the petition. let me recall that the title of the directive is: ‘copyright in the digital single market’. it’s our duty to fix issues of great concern at european level and not in the national legislation. for this reason, i ask for your support to open the directive to the amendments and request a vote on these amendments that so many of us have signed. (applause)
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the european parliament spent €1.9 billion in 2017, with a welcome error rate of 0.5, which is as low as one could hope for for other expenditure items. but at least we're talking about an administrative budget, so the error rate of 0.5 is still too high, because 0 would be great, of course. i have made the effort in the last few months to look personally at all the areas of the european parliament as far as possible. the colleagues were very courteous, they were open and honest about their concerns and their things, i could ask anything i wanted to know, and i felt that i got honest answers too. of course, all that glitters is not gold. it is true that the areas where most of my colleagues' complaints come from - that is, as always in such matters as food and here also the transport service and the buildings, i have looked at them more closely - certainly still have a great deal to be done. but speaking of chauffeur service, the very fact that we have integrated the chauffeurs into parliament is certainly a great step forward. i've been looking at the areas, as i said. one of my hobbies is the liaison offices. i think i'm pretty much alone in the hallway, because everyone seems to like it except me. but i think the fixed costs of buildings, salaries and travel are not in good proportion to what the liaison offices are bringing in. i would like to see the citizens of the liaison offices, the liaison offices and their staff, being reached out to much more. and i also expect that there will be a lot more communication through social media, because we are simply in the age of social media, and it is not enough to simply respond to campaigns, but the information must be given in a way that fake news does not find a place at all. before i go into the major areas of concern, i should like to thank all my colleagues very much. the new compromise proposals show that cooperation was very good and very constructive, even if we did not always agree. the three main areas of concern are, as almost every year, the pension funds. we really need to think of something here. it was created when members of parliament did not yet have national pension rights. times have changed. we have to find solutions now. the solution must certainly also safeguard the rights of the members who have paid and protect the european taxpayer. the european parliament has a right to be consulted on the draft budget. there is no understanding, especially among our french colleagues, that we are talking about the single seat. this has been a huge problem, as always. but i can only point out the cost: over 21 million euros a year, which is what it all costs, and i don't like to talk about the co2 savings if you don't have to go back and forth anymore. the third is the general flat-rate. a flat rate is a flat rate is a flat rate. i think that even if you disagree with me, you have to accept that. and it cannot be that, just to make political change out of it, there is an endless discussion here. all in all, a good job, a very interesting job. i hope we can relieve parliament of its responsibilities later.
the rapporteur. the commission is not i would like to conclude by saying that i would like to see the role of the committee on budgetary control taken more seriously by all my colleagues and also by the institutions than i have felt so far, and that the proposals and comments of the committee on budgetary control are taken seriously and implemented. i would like to see the members not using important issues raised in the budget of this parliament to make themselves important or to debate them, but to really take the jobs seriously and try to do what is best for all of us and for the members in the various sectors.
in writing. the report urges the council and the member states to push ahead with the integration of the european development fund (edf) into the union budget. this is because budgeting the edf would ensure a more coherent framework, better supervision and coordination, as well as synergies between programmes, regions and countries. the existing dual sets of procedures would be suppressed and bureaucratic burdens reduced, despite considerable efforts to approximate (e.g. administrative, legal provisions or decision-making procedures). at the same time, the edf contains important elements of flexibility. for example, the edf has substantial reserves that can be mobilised when needed, including the financing of humanitarian operations in crises, and it has a multiannual framework for its use. in addition, the edf also finances actions outside the limits of the treaties, including operations for military or defence purposes, through the african peace facility. the edf is still seen as a fundamental instrument of development cooperation, as it plays a symbolic role in the privileged acp-eu relations established since the first lomé convention. this positive legacy could be lost in budgetary terms. the budget could change the nature of cooperation between the eu and the acp states.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. my question goes in the direction that in e-mobility, a battery weighs about 700 kg, while a diesel load weighs 70 kg. now, of course, we have the problem that you can drive a total of 700 kilometers with diesel, but only 350 kilometers with e-mobility. so there's a big question of efficiency here. how do you see it?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. 44 billion investment of vw was discussed here. this will also show that cars and private transport will become significantly more expensive. so buying cars becomes a social issue here. traffic congestion in cities will be difficult to reduce because many people can no longer afford cars and mobility. the second thing i see as a problem is that it's measured at the exhaust. we all know that production, operation and recycling are of course important. here we see that diesel has 219 grams of co2 per 100,000 miles, e-mobility has 277, and gasoline has the highest emissions with 300 grams of co2 per mile. i am in favour of introducing life-cycle costs because that is the future, and of focusing on synthetic fuels like hydrogen because they can be produced from renewable energy. we reject nuclear power because it is expensive and harmful to the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to invite everyone to take a look at the big picture. three percent of the annual and global co2 emissions are caused by humans. the eu's share is 9.1%. of this, just under 30 percent is transportation, 72 percent is road transportation, and 60 percent is cars, which are affected by this bill. the possible, but not so likely, savings would be a maximum of 0.013%. so what do we do? we are making expensive electric cars compulsory, making individual mobility more expensive and damaging the value added of our core industry. this is a disproportionate saving, especially if, as is the case here, we only measure the exhaust and consider electric cars to be co2-neutral, even if the electricity is generated from lignite. unfortunately, this is an ideological package that our party has shown time and again. but thanks to a left-wing majority in the house, our amendments were irresponsibly rejected. it would have been better for our citizens, for our businesses and, above all, for the environment.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. we greens were very sceptical about an instrument which would bring together so many funding systems under one roof. we have tried to be as constructive as possible in the negotiations, we have taken this very seriously, as mr preda said, 200 amendments from us alone, 300 from the four rapporteurs. we tried to bring in as many as we could, and we found some success. the rapporteurs have indeed approached us. i think it was a very constructive negotiation for the most part. but you also have to say, because we were addressed there: it has gone much further in terms of quantity. we haven't always been so sure of the quality. there has been a lot of progress in the area of climate change, a lot of progress in the area of women's equality. but the most important points are still in the comments, in the recitals, and not in the actual text. we therefore abstained once in committee and wanted to continue negotiations afterwards. we are still prepared to use the last night to take some decisive steps and to go further and to give this instrument the final touch which, in our view, could make it possible to vote. but then again, there must be crucial commitments. as it stands, it could be good politics. but i see no obligation to do so. nothing is really fixed. in the area of migration, the money could also be used for measures which we certainly do not support. we have to take one last negotiating step.
i have to say, madam president, there has been a great deal of talk about algeria itself. let me say a few words about the european union. i have been saying for years that syria will not be the last country where we have failed as the european union. algeria is coming our way. because there's an old head of state with his trembling hand on the lid of the pressure cooker, and one day the cooker is going to explode. now that day is here, what do we do? we're watching you. syria has a population of almost 20 million, algeria 40 million. you don't want to imagine what would happen if a civil war broke out there. if we had had a strong, common, confident foreign policy eight years ago and had engaged diplomatically, we could have saved ourselves and the people of syria a lot. that is why i appeal to berlin, paris, rome, stockholm and, yes, also to vienna and to all the other heads of state and government: we need a strong europe! the only way to do that is to end the unanimity principle in foreign policy. the people of algeria and here in europe will thank us.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. please be honest with the people out there. we have no time to waste on lip service. be honest and say: mobility package i will not be decided during this period. that is sad! this is sad for a great many motorists throughout europe. because where are we? in principle, there has been little change from where the package stood a year ago. what are we gonna do with it? we are achieving the exact opposite of what we wanted to achieve, namely improvements in the working conditions of motorists. the austrian presidency has put forward something, it has put forward a general approach. what happened to it? i didn't say anything. and there are reasons why it didn't work out. firstly, the diametrically opposed extreme situations of the socialists and the epp in this house, which do not allow for any movement. and secondly, it is a chaotic green presidency which has not brought any leadership in from the start and which has even held unofficial coordinator meetings, which are undemocratic, without inviting other coordinators. that's why. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. mrs. delli, you're gonna have to take this one. you know very well that you have held informal coordinators' meetings without inviting part of the group coordinators. don't tell me who i think i am. who do you think you are, running around voters and holding meetings like this? this is a brazen and undemocratic move.
i have to say, madam president, we must improve the disastrous working conditions of truck drivers, that is the point. i too, mr koch, speak to truck drivers in the car parks on the austrian border, and i hear the same thing, more or less the same thing: they drive for days on end, 15 hours at a time, living in a car park and sleeping and working in a cabin often smaller than a dog kennel. and let them keep the cargo in the night, all for the wages of the famine. i ask these drivers, "what do you want?" they say, "a decent wage, decent hours, regular family visits". we must not allow this to continue. let us finally vote together for fair working conditions on europe's roads, for strictly controlled working hours, breaks and rest periods. it's a sign of respect for the hard-working truck drivers.
the commission has already done so. we are witnessing here, in this extremely important dossier, how quickly a parliament can become incapable of taking a decision if we retreat to the respective national positions. we should be more than the least common denominator of our constituencies at home. we should work together to find the best solutions and then decide on them. we have not succeeded in doing so across the political groups, and we have failed miserably both in the committee and here in the house. the rules of procedure were stretched beyond recognition and each side was prepared to go to the extreme. you see how it's ended and how toxic it is when only particular interests are defended, when some people retreat to the idea that their own perspective is all that matters and other opinions are just a hindrance. this hypocrisy, from the worried left to the new protectionists in my own group, will do more harm to the idea of europe than anything else. and there was no compromise in the tran committee, only in the cabotage.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to start by thanking our rapporteur, tanja fajon, and all the shadow rapporteurs, for all the efforts made on this file. the file has been a work in progress in the european parliament since 2016, when already at that time, the commission proposed lifting the visa requirements for the people of kosovo by transferring kosovo to the visa—free list of short stays in the schengen area. as mentioned before by commissioner avramopoulos, the commission announced last july that the two most important requirements for the visa waiver had been fulfilled. firstly, kosovo had ratified the border demarcation agreement with montenegro and, secondly, kosovo has strengthened its track record in the fight against organised crime and corruption. in september, parliament voted in favour of entering into interinstitutional negotiations, and tomorrow we will vote to keep the position positive, so the visa waiver can be finalised during the next legislature. kosovo has been isolated on the balkans visa liberalisation map for far too long. visa liberalisation would be a fair and natural next step for this country. the benefits of a liberalised visa regime are considerable. this decision will further facilitate people—to—people contacts, improve professional and educational exchange, boost economic partnerships and strengthen social and cultural ties between the eu and kosovo. this agreement would also help the eu to promote reforms in third countries in relation to strengthening respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law. the visa waiver can even help to discourage people smugglers whose services would no longer be required. i call on the member states and on the council to adopt a position as soon as possible so that negotiations can finally begin. there is no room for prejudice preventing the people of kosovo from travelling freely into the schengen area.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i think it is important to see if the visa criteria are met. and i think that's the case right now. what does that mean in relation to the residence permit? i think that a clear separation is necessary here, and that is why the visa is an important instrument for bringing people closer to the european union.
mr president, when i speak in favour of visa liberalisation for kosovo, i speak on behalf of the majority in this parliament, since we have already voted in favour of visa liberalisation. now it’s up to the council to fulfil the promise of the european union, which came along with the criteria that kosovo had to fulfil; and kosovo fulfilled the criteria. we all know that there are six different states in south-eastern europe. there are 18 million inhabitants, and only 10% of them, 1.8 million inhabitants, don’t have the opportunity to travel freely. the people of kosovo should have this opportunity too. by the way, we all have to fight against corruption and for the rule of law in these countries; we have to help the citizens of these countries to fight and to have opportunities for jobs and education at home. it’s not about going to work somewhere else in europe or settling somewhere else in europe. it is only about travelling without fees for families, without waiting times, which are annoying for families. it is about visa liberalisation, and i guess that the majority in this european parliament stands behind the people of kosovo, who deserve visa liberalisation.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i am very pleased that we are having the debate today on the budget of the european parliament. we have a lot of uncertainties because brexit is not settled yet. we don't know what's gonna happen in the next 48 hours. but we do assume that our budget should be prepared in any case for a hard brexit, a chaotic brexit or, of course, for the british to remain in the european parliament, which would of course be our first priority. we have therefore negotiated with the bureau of the european parliament. we insisted on cutting costs, cutting 18 million in total. we have reached an agreement with the secretary general. and that's why it's important that we fight fake news and fake news first and foremost in the upcoming election campaign. i believe that the european parliament has found a new group which can be active here through the european science media hub. we want facts, we want good reasons. and i believe that peer review of what the european parliament decides should be the basis for honest and transparent reporting. we also have the point that the statute of members should be respected. we have the voluntary pension fund. i believe that we have the right here to see that what has been promised by the legislation and by the three institutions is respected. i personally cannot accept the decision of the bureau to take such steps here. but ultimately, it is also about continuing to consider office space as space. i think it is important for members not to be suffocated by paperwork. there's too much red tape in the house anyway. we see that there is a lot of staff tied up here, and the purpose of the flat-rate is to relieve us of the problems of bureaucracy. the decision on what expenditure is to be made is ultimately the responsibility of the member (s) concerned. that is why i also believe that if a hard brexit is indeed coming - that is, after all, 6.1% of the mps - then we will have to implement the corresponding changes in the autumn. one of my big problems is also the gender pay gap we have, because it is about the fact that the assistants, the parliamentary group staff and the civil servants are paid on a different basis. everyone works hard and well. i think they have a right to equal pay for equal work. the european parliament should also be a model in this respect. i also believe that the medical service should take a leading role in the future in the area of harassment and that the interns need to be adequately remunerated in the future, which should of course be reflected in the secretarial allowance. the last point is that the delegations on official missions are sometimes very lavishly equipped. i think that this is where members should decide who they want to take with them: a member of the political group, an assistant or a translator. we could save a lot of money. i believe that the european parliament is quite capable of making a lot of cost savings.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i think the question of the seat of the european parliament is, of course, a legitimate question, and we all know that the treaty of lisbon and the treaties of rome have always provided for unanimity on the question of the seat. and our seat is strasbourg. i do not understand the criticism that the strasbourg seat is being called into question here: we sit here, we decide here, and i think that makes perfect sense. but with brexit, we have no idea what's going to happen. will this lead to a hard brexit, to chaos, in a few hours? the commission has not yet taken a decision on this matter and we shall be very interested to see how this affects our costs.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mrs boylan because it is of course important that water is provided free of charge. water is a public good, that's obvious. we must also pursue this approach with all our vigour. but it's about the infrastructure that provides water, and of course the infrastructure has to be paid for. do you think it's a good idea to put this infrastructure out to tender in the future, so that consumers can get the infrastructure at the lowest price?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is a fact that two million citizens of our european union do not have clean water in their homes. there are children involved, there are elderly people involved. i share the aim of ensuring that all people in europe have access to clean water. europe would thus have a special position in the world, becoming the first continent where everyone has clean water. but what the commission has proposed is that, despite all the improvements we have been able to make here in parliament - in committee and in plenary - there is extra regulation and unnecessary red tape where the water is already clean. this is not achieving the objective, but it is increasing the cost - the cost to households, the cost to water users. that is why i shall vote against this report again. the objective remains correct. the issue must be taken up again in the next period in the european parliament to ensure that those who do not have clean water get clean water. but absurd parameters, not even suggested by the world health organization, which would lead to the construction of new treatment plants for clean water sources and the like, we do not need. we're going to fight it. that is why i am voting against the report, but i will continue to work - as i have done so far - to achieve a real objective, so that those who need clean water and do not have it yet can have it in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to thank our rapporteur, mr dantin, very warmly. because we see that water is a very important element in our global survival strategy - only a very small part of water is drinking water, fresh water - i am pleased that we can present the un water report at the european parliament in brussels on april 3 next week at 4:30 p.m. i think this is another historic benchmark because for us - and i am speaking on behalf of the committee on development - the sdgs are of particular importance. we all know that without water there is no sustainable food: food, feed, needs water. and without goal 7, renewable energy, we will not have enough water and we will not have enough food. the second, sixth and seventh sdgs are therefore very important in development policy, in order to create new opportunities for small and mediumsized enterprises, especially in rural areas, because rural areas need this infrastructure. when you see that today 50 percent of people who are admitted to hospitals are admitted because of bad water, then we have a special responsibility here. i believe it is absolutely crucial for us to take the policies we are pursuing here in europe and to extend them to the less developed countries of the world. millions of people do not have access to clean drinking water, and i am calling on the commission to develop a concept to meet sustainable development goal 6, clean water, sanitation and hygiene, with new business plans so that we can invest here globally so that people can benefit from this international supply.
in writing. erasmus+ is one of the eu's most successful programmes, and it is important to finance it properly. in the last few years, we've been able to give four million people unlimited learning and mobility. we must continue to expand this, and to this end we social democrats are calling for a tripling of the funds. erasmus+ must not be an elite programme. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's external relations. the information available should also be extended, particularly for apprentices.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe that this dossier is particularly important for the next few years, especially if we take into account that the sustainable development goals have a global dimension. it is therefore essential that we focus on objectives 2, 6 and 7, namely sustainable food, sanitation, water, waste water and renewable energy, and that we ensure that this sustainable investment culture provides incentives for smes in particular to invest accordingly, and that we also create new jobs in these areas, particularly for smes, and that we bring jobs back to europe. for well-paid, new activities, it makes sense to support this approach. and i'm glad that this is going to be possible.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not it is in fact an indexation of family allowances, as has now been discussed in austria and has obviously led to a letter of formal notice from the commission. it is right, in essence, to respect or to take account of the principle of equal treatment. but the commission is clearly ignoring the principle that different things cannot be treated equally. and that happens, and i want to capture that with an example: for example, if a romanian worker is paid the same amount for a child who is at home and living in romania and who therefore has a much lower cost of living than a child living in austria with a much higher cost of living. the very different levels, the price levels, the cost of living justify an indexation adapted to the country of residence. this indexation is therefore not about savings, cuts or withdrawals, but about adjustment to the cost of living. i can give examples. in the last 15 years alone, these claims for children living abroad have risen from 1500 to 130 000, so that the total number of persons concerned has increased by a factor of 100. i would also like to give you an example of romania-austria: romania: one white bread, half a kilo 50 cents austria 1.83 euro; local cheese 0,47 cents compared to 1,08 euro in austria; beef and veal 6.11 euro against approximately 19.96 euro. this goes so far that it can be noted that the average child benefit in austria, paid out at 135 euros, is a quarter of the average income in romania. so this different situation is to be respected. the commission has already made a number of proposals. if in 2019 mr tusk promised mr cameron an emergency brake on the short-term suspension of the union's social benefits, which would have included child benefit and many other benefits, then i wonder why, if the commission itself had offered this to mr cameron to prevent brexit, the same obviously does not apply to austria. that's not fair. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am very glad that this so-called question is a statement, because then i can answer it accordingly. what you obviously don't know is that in our country, employers also contribute to a pot called the family burden compensation fund and pay into it. and this is the pot that's also paying for this child support. so it's not a social security benefit like in other countries, but just a family benefit fed from a different pot. and you have to know that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are concerned about the disproportionate measures against laura kövesi. we regret that the concerns expressed by our house in its resolution on romania, adopted by a large majority on 13 november, have been ignored. we support the vice-president of the commission, mr frans timmermans, who has spoken very clearly today about what is going on and has announced immediate steps. we call on romania to resume a constructive dialogue with the commission and to immediately cease all activities that are contrary to the mutually agreed objectives.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. when i listened to the swedish prime minister and then to mr weber and then to mr bullmann, there was one commonality that struck me immediately: it was mrs greta thunberg, who as a climate activist, as she calls herself, is walking across the european news here. and just so there are no misunderstandings here: i am for climate protection, i am for nature protection, i myself, when i was young, helped to protect the au in austria, but you cannot be excused by this almost sacred statement by mrs thunberg: we have since today been informed of an investigation by global 2000 that a new reactor is to be put into operation in mochovce. and here i need a european voice, a european cooperation, to say to slovakia: no, we do not want a junk reactor to be set up in the heart of europe and a very short-term and very acute threat to take place. and as a second point, mr weber, i would also like to say something directly to you, now that you have listened to my words: you know, mr weber, you come from bavaria, you are a representative of the csu, you have your own opinion - which is good, which i respect - and you are also a friend of the austrian chancellor sebastian kurz. i am one of sebastian kurz's allies and i represent the liberal party in one of the groups here, and i would like to put this in your register: i respect every viewpoint that is legitimized here by democratic elections. but if you are seriously saying that you want to cut off all funding to those political groups that do not share your views, that have a reformist, different approach to european cooperation, and that you want to make it impossible for us to hire staff, for us to engage in political communication, then you are not living up to the european values of democracy, the rule of law, fairness, and the quality of discourse that you have invoked here today. i have no objection to the greens and the communists speaking their minds when they are in this house. the voters legitimized it. i ask you to respect and show democratic maturity, that everyone who is represented here is representing voters by virtue of free elections, and that we should not play off each other and say: 'this one has a different opinion, so this one should get less, this one should get nothing, and this one should get more.' that is not the european spirit i have in mind. austria - i mentioned this - has had a new government for 15 months, and part of the party family you demonize - these evil populists - is a very important factor in shaping this. and look at austria, how many things are being reformed for the better, how much the country is progressing step by step. perhaps you will also come to realise that the path followed by the majority here is not the right one, but that perhaps a different path, one in which european cooperation can find a good future by cooperating less, but where cooperation is better and deeper, is perhaps a good one. you are not the one who defines that path, and neither am i. do you know who it is? it is the voter, and he will speak on 26 may, where the journey will go.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. – mr president, let me start by thanking the rapporteur, mr gérard deprez, my colleague, for taking into consideration the opinion provided by the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. biometric data must be collected in a manner that respects human dignity. national authorities responsible for issuing id cards must undertake fingerprints and facial images, as far as possible, in a gender—sensitive manner. fingerprinting persons in a vulnerable situation, including those who have experienced gender-based violence, requires particular attention. there is a difference between sex and gender. the disparity between the sex on someone’s official document and the gender presented in person can lead to discrimination and harassment. therefore, i am pleased that, in the future, the id card format of national identity cards will include the category of gender with the options of female, male or gender neutral, described as x.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. more than 25 000 people die on europe's roads every year. our aim is that by 2050 there should not be a single death on europe's roads. the revision of this directive will improve safety on europe's roads and reduce the number of road deaths. we are particularly concerned about those who are on foot, by bicycle or by motorcycle. they are the most vulnerable road users and accidents are particularly deadly or seriously injurious to them. we have also been able to extend the scope of the directive. this means that the high standards now apply where major accidents happen most often, namely on state and federal roads and not just on motorways. we also need to be prepared for the challenges of digitalisation and automation. self-driving cars must be able to recognise and read road signs and ground markings across europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. the right infrastructure and transport planning are key to ensuring the safety of citizens on the roads. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank all the colleagues who have worked hard to adopt the new eu infrastructure guidelines. the directive is certainly contributing to greater road safety on europe's roads. this can save lives.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already done so. i am one of many in this parliament who have fought for the pepp and i thank the commission for the initiative on this product. there is good news for europe's younger generations, because with the pepp there is a supplementary pension for a better quality of life in old age. in other parts of europe, social welfare systems are not as well developed as in my own country, for example. i believe that the pepp has a very good chance of fulfilling this function. at the same time, it has an added value in developed social systems to ensure living standards. the private supplementary pension insurance pepp, the pan-european pension product, will come in several variants. i am very pleased that it has even been possible to offer a kind of european capital guarantee in a basic version standardized throughout the eu, which provides a high level of security for many people where there are no sophisticated pension systems. the pepp is a transparent and attractive complement to the first and second pillars. i would like to emphasize what mrs veld - my colleague as rapporteur - said: that it is not in competition with the first and second pillars, but is a complementary product and as such makes a very valuable contribution to pension provision. i support the introduction of the pepp on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs. we also have to provide our customers with standardised documentation, including information on certification. we are also extremely sympathetic to the role played by eiopa in this respect. i think we can offer the younger generation an excellent retirement product.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to rule 116a (3) of the rules of procedure. it's a joint meeting of the environmental committee and the petitions committee, based on a citizens' petition about the proven funding of climate denial reports and climate denial research by exxon and exxonmobil. the secretariat invited exxonmobil to attend this meeting. exxonmobil has six so-called lobby badges for this house. exxonmobil did not comply with this invitation but apologised in a legal action against it which is ongoing. i think there's always a lawsuit against exxonmobil somewhere in the world. article 116a states that if an organisation that has lobby badges does not comply with a summons from the committee, the organisation's lobby badges are to be withdrawn. two dozen members have written to you about this. my question is: will you reply to this letter or will you withdraw the lobbying badges during this election period, or do you think that this is no longer the task of this parliament or this bureau?
i have to say, madam president, power needs control! the whistleblower policy makes a valuable contribution to this. protecting brave explorers who act in the public interest, that's what it's all about. i would like to remind you of antoine deltour and raphaël halet. these two are real heroes, and they paid a very high price for it: remember, luxleaks was the catalyst for the discovery of the big tax scandals. all the progress we've made in bringing transparency to the world of tax cheating is because of courageous whistleblowers, and as such, they deserve to be protected. so i thank virginia, i thank mrs jourová as commissioner, but i also thank all the members who have worked here, because we have shown that we need a parliament that is confident, that works together and in this way de facto takes the initiative.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would point out that the president is chairing the meeting here and not mr preda. unlike my predecessor, i believe that the romanian presidency has achieved a great deal in the time available, despite all fears and appeals to disregard. the more surprising it is, ...{interruption by mr preda}{mr weidenholzer's reply: you can listen to me, mr preda. i think we need a little discipline.)... that we have to have this urgent debate today. we've been discussing these issues for a long time. in november, our parliament adopted a resolution in which it made it clear that the revision of the judicial and criminal law in romania must not affect the independence of the judiciary, because only in this way can corruption be combated in a lasting way. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the basis of the opinion of the european parliament. unfortunately, our demands have not received the necessary attention. that is very unfortunate. it is not against romania; it is about our common understanding of the law. a functioning rule of law is the essential pillar of the common europe, and this was clearly stated in the copenhagen criteria. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, this cannot be one-sided and one-teacher. but we must consolidate the common principles of the rule of law through dialogue. this is our message to bucharest. it's the only way east and west will grow together.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank peter simon and gunnar hökmark, all the shadow rapporteurs, the commission and all our staff. we have taken an important step towards completing the banking union with the new banking regulation. this is the biggest reduction in risk, red tape and costs in european banking regulation. we have achieved this with six key pillars: firstly, by tightening the own funds requirements, which take account of the structural specificities of the european banking sector. secondly, for the first time, there is a proportionality definition of small and non-complex institutions, including qualitative criteria. thirdly, we are creating a significant administrative relief and 20% less regulatory costs for small banks. fourthly, there is an even stronger support for the real economy through the expansion of the so-called sme factor from eur 1.5 million to eur 2.5 million. fifthly, by encouraging investment in software, the scheme also responds to digitalisation. and sixthly, the establishment of a single european register of declarations will put an end to the duplication of declarations. we have therefore helped to stabilise the financial markets on the one hand and protected smaller banks on the other. we have thus strengthened europe as an economic centre and achieved a great success for the european parliament. thank you for your excellent cooperation.
in writing. in addition to the aspects covered by the previous regulations on capital requirements, the directive contains a number of new elements. in order to prevent banks from encouraging their employees to take excessive risks, the regulation provides for a maximum ratio between fixed and variable remuneration for all employees concerned. the bonus shall not exceed the fixed annual remuneration of the identified employee, unless the shareholders decide, under certain conditions, to allow bonuses of up to twice the fixed remuneration. the new rules also include requirements for bonuses that encourage long-term risk-taking. the regulation also introduces rules to ensure effective supervision by the banks' governing bodies and to improve risk management. the composition of the management board requires diversity to contribute to effective supervision. the regulation also reduces the dependence of credit institutions on external ratings. the commission has also concluded that the measures in question constitute state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty. i agree with the new capital requirements. in particular, i welcome the fact that the agreement includes both increased requirements for large financial institutions and simplified requirements for small and non-complex institutions, in particular with regard to reporting.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it 's funny . ten years ago, i made two major reports on the causes and effects of the greatest financial and social crisis with a french woman, pervenche berès. i finished the last parliamentary term by presenting a report on the review of the troika in the programme countries with a frenchman, mr liêm hoang-ngoc. and today we are presenting three reports together again, again with a french woman, pervenche berès, and they are your last reports. at the same time, notre dame is going to fall. we could all be happy about the reports today. but we are all sad. because when notre dame collapses and not only burns, a part of us collapses, because we are europe. we are part of the european union. we have both always tried to overcome ideological barriers and to put the common at the centre. we've always tried to put the facts above the contrasts. that's why we were successful. and i want to thank you for that, perv, for your work on a day of sadness. one is sinking, the other is rising. but i hope that the combined strength of europe can also rebuild notre dame. maybe not the way she used to be. but we must never give up. and the three reports we are doing together today are already a milestone. i thank you and all the shadow reporters for that. we are creating new supervisory competences through a combination of new supervisory and control powers against money laundering and terrorist financing, direct european supervision of certain cross-border financial transactions, less red tape and better consideration of different sizes, risk profiles and complexities, more supervisory convergence through better instruments and new no-action letters and coordination groups, more consumer protection and the consideration of sustainable risk factors, more supervisory input into decisions on third country rules and stronger democratic accountability to the european parliament. we are strengthening governance through more efficiency and faster decisions and the avoidance of conflicts of interest, more tasks and powers for the presidency and a stronger role for the european parliament. we note that, with a view to the new eu budget, sufficient resources and staff are finally available and we hope that member states will heed our call. and we're improving macro surveillance to better detect systemic risks of all kinds in the future. the reports are open for review. the only reason they're such a qualitative advance is because we all worked together. i hope that this cooperation, which transcends ideological boundaries, will survive the election campaign and shape the policies of the next parliament.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to say to our european citizens who may be watching us that in this last week of the european parliament's session alone we are dealing today with 13 different reports from the economic and monetary committee which we will put to the vote tomorrow. we started eight years ago to respond to the global financial crises with a european supervisory system, and tomorrow we will adopt a comprehensive reform with the three reports to make this system fit for the future. we are thus reaching another milestone on the road to completing the capital markets union and deepening economic and monetary union. this is good news for european citizens, the real economy, investment, jobs and growth in europe. this shows that we are capable of action, that we are capable of solutions when we stick together. i would also like to say at this point that i would like to thank my predecessor for the report i have taken over, mr burkhard balz, for the preparatory work and thank you all for your good cooperation.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the urgency of this issue is well known to all of us. while the average effective corporate tax rate in traditional industries, especially smes, is 23%, in the digital sector it is around 9,5%. tax rulings allow the big digital giants, internet companies, to pay as little as 1% tax in some cases. it is unfair, it is unfair, it distorts competition within the single market and it weakens small and mediumsized enterprises. as a christian democrat and a supporter of the eco-social market economy, i cannot and will not accept this. all the proposals to remedy this injustice and unfairness are on the table from this parliament in general and from the commission and parliament in particular, because we have already decided on a european digital tax on online earnings, because we have already decided on the establishment of a digital office. what are we failing at? we are failing because of the lack of political will in the member states, we are failing because of tax havens within the european union, and we are failing because of the unanimity of the council with regard to the right of veto. i therefore call on the member states: end your blockade! the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states, and has also set up a number of working groups to examine the question of the use of the internet in the context of the internal market.
in writing. the eu labour authority is coming. and this is a huge success for the workers of europe. the eu labour authority is intended to monitor the posting of workers directive throughout europe. this is how we can really ensure that equal pay for equal work is paid in the same place. the best laws against wage and social dumping are useless unless they are properly controlled across borders. the eu labour authority is coming because we have not let the social democrats and trade unionists in the european parliament off the hook. we have persisted in this despite the wishes of the conservatives and many member states, and above all the austrian government, to keep the authority as small as possible. i am still in favour of austria as the seat of the eu labour authority - because we know all too well the problems of the european wage gap.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think in sudan, it's important that we focus on the sustainable development goals, especially goal 2 - safe and sustainable food - and goal 6 - clean water and sanitation. we could fight many diseases by developing strategies here and applying investeu here as soon as possible and, of course, objective 7, renewable energy. if we link this in rural areas together with small and mediumsized enterprises, we would have achieved a great deal, and i believe that this could be a future that could also allow sudan to have stability like in europe.
mr president, let me say at the outset this should not be a partisan issue. we should actually all be united in the fight against fake news, disinformation and propaganda. but i’m afraid – and this is also what mr telička said – that the member states are not aware of this issue and they do not pay enough attention to the dangers that arise from that. i will continue in german, unfortunately, mr king. das digitale medienumfeld, das in den letzten jahren entstanden ist, bringt viele positive veränderungen mit sich. umgekehrt munitioniert es aber auch zunehmend gegner der demokratie und der pressefreiheit. die wahl donald trumps und das brexitreferendum haben es gezeigt: manipulation der öffentlichen meinung über das internet und die sozialen media-plattformen nehmen zu. das ausmaß ist mittlerweile so groß, dass es demokratische wahlen beeinflussen kann. diese entwicklungen werden auch für die kommende wahl zum europäischen parlament eine rolle spielen und ein problem darstellen. wenn nämlich eine falschmeldung erst einmal im raum steht, dann dauert es seine zeit, bis diese widerlegt ist. hinzu kommt der technische fortschritt. auch hier dürfen wir hinter den aktuellen entwicklungen nicht hinterherhinken. so spielt neben klassischen social-media-kanälen wie facebook, instagram und twitter natürlich auch whatsapp eine, sagen wir mal, fragwürdige rolle. darüber hinaus wird künstliche intelligenz es möglich machen, falschmeldungen oder propaganda in bisher noch ungeahnter weise zu verbreiten. will die europäische union die legitimität der europawahl und anderer wahlen schützen, dann muss sie diese entwicklungen so früh wie möglich erkennen und entsprechende gegenmaßnahmen setzen. europa benötigt eine schlagkräftige, ganzheitliche strategie, um auf die verbreitung von lügen, unwahrheiten und die manipulation von meinungen zu reagieren. (der redner ist damit einverstanden, eine frage nach dem verfahren der „blauen karte” gemäß artikel 162 absatz 8 der geschäftsordnung zu beantworten.)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr freund in particular for his good reporting on the problem. we know that we're going to pass the cyber security centre act in first reading this week. it is important that we make the necessary arrangements in all 28 member states. stoa, the scientific technology options assessment panel of the european parliament, has four studies on cybersecurity, and we've created a science media hub to test analytics. do you think that these measures are sufficient for the european union, or should more be done in this area?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i think that, mr rübig, we can never do enough to take decisive action here. i am afraid that in the context of the problem and the problematic we are talking about - the european elections - it is too late, that we will have to pay special attention to this problem here, because otherwise we will end up in a situation like we have already experienced with brexit and trump.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the first attempt to reform the market surveillance system failed in 2013. today and now we're going to give a new go-ahead for the new market surveillance system. this was urgently needed, also in the interests of consumers. we know that toys, pyrotechnics and machinery are the products where we have identified the greatest problems. we believe that those who bring dangerous products onto the internal market must also take responsibility for them. and we must therefore monitor so that we know who is putting dangerous products on the market and who is responsible for them. we also want a level playing field for all. all non-european companies must play by the same rules as domestic companies if they wish to operate on our market. we had the reality that logistics providers, big online retailers, could get away with it so far. that's over now! if you think it is justified to deal in dangerous or non-compliant products, you can also pay the bill for the recall actions of such products and you must take responsibility for it. i thank the rapporteur for the excellent cooperation and i ask for the broad support we have had between the shadow rapporteurs and the rapporteur tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank krišjānis kariņš very much for mentioning something very substantial in his speech, namely the digital single market. i am not saying that we should not be able to do this, but i am saying that we should not be able to do this, because we are not going to be able to do it. we need the possibility of buying a sim card in all 28 member states. we need a strong development in this area, because this will determine the competition of the future. i would like to thank all those who have worked together to create a single market which will ensure the future of our young people.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. it 's time . after several years, we are voting today on the new eu visa code, and as the negotiator of the european people's party i would like to express my thanks to the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs of the other groups in this house. the result can be seen. i would also like to express my gratitude to the commission, whose new proposals have paved the way for today's visa code, and to the romanian presidency for a constructive dialogue. we have achieved that the european union will in future significantly promote and facilitate the development of relations with third countries. we will see this with new growth in business, tourism, culture, sport, etc. we have been able to realize one of the epp's key objectives, which our friends on the left and the greens have finally abandoned: it is to link the issue of visas to the readmission of irregular migrants by third countries. third countries that do not cooperate will be granted fewer or no visas and/or be charged higher visa fees. in future, visa benefits will be granted only in exchange for withdrawal. unfortunately, this principle has not been implemented in the renewal of the european external border controls, which is also being voted on today. while i expressly welcome the reinforcement of frontex with personnel and resources for effective coastal border protection, i regret that frontex cannot help non-eu countries with returns to their countries of origin. it is also extremely regrettable that frontex still needs the permission of the member state. i thank you for a fascinating time in this house and for the great cooperation with all of you!
madam president, i need one minute. you will not regret it and i say it’s a challenge for the interpreters. i looked it up, i could not find, the paragraph you have in mind, for one last speech here in this room, before the shovel and the broom, clears out the work we left behind, it sometimes almost made us blind. but what i actually want to say, is thank you, thank you if i may; not only to the many friends, they can be women, can be gents, but also to those working here, behind the bar, serving us beer; distributing the voting list, assisting us to find the gist; down in the basement, the garage, providing cars, driving farage, or brok, valero, regner, danti, who always said, ‘go fast, avanti’; the cleaning women, those who check the badges, and they never lack the courtesy that we so cherish, it will remain, will never perish. and then at last, those who translate the speeches that we love or hate, they struggle now with all my rhymes, but i will end and then the times will change, you will agree, so danke, thank you and merci. (sustained applause)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr torvalds very warmly, because co2 is of course a challenge and therefore the life cycle cost of heavy trucks always plays a major role; so the whole production and use of trucks is a big part of this. do you think that, for example, continuous driving in cities and smart parking could also make a significant contribution to co2 reduction?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the digitisation of eu company law will allow companies to be set up online, to submit documents online and to complete all procedural steps online. the conditions and requirements for this remain national. the approval of my group was not guaranteed from the outset. why would you do that? it is particularly important for us social democrats to ensure that the highest possible safeguards are in place against abuse and fraud when companies are set up in other eu countries by the click of a mouse. we do not want to create eu post office boxes à la carte or promote business models of member states that want to declare themselves the delaware of europe. i would also like to express my gratitude to mr tadeusz zwiefka as rapporteur, to the commissioner, and congratulate the negotiating team and the shadow rapporteur, mrs jytte guteland, on whose behalf i have the honour of speaking today. the result provides for the mandatory verification of the identity and legal capacity of persons wishing to set up the company, and in particular, despite full digitisation, member states may require a personal interview with the competent body for reasons of public interest. this is so important to us, so that the online registration does not become a mailbox registration tool. new high transparency requirements and more information will be provided in the company books in the future, thus further enlivening and making bris function. it is also important and new that in future rules should be introduced in all eu member states to exclude members and boards of companies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic data interchange systems. the high level of safeguards and identity checks require member states to ensure that company law is not abused. so, in that respect, congratulations on the sprint that has been made on this subject just now at the end of the legislative period.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what we have achieved here is a milestone, comparable in scope and complexity to the data protection regulation or the services directive. in just five and a half weeks, we were able to combine the mandates of the two institutions and draw up a common text of guidelines in an estimated 110 net hours of negotiation. i would like to thank all those involved for this: the commission, the commissioner, the shadow rapporteurs, the team, but also the council. we are facing a new eu-wide law which for the first time will comprehensively regulate the mobility of companies and introduce a uniform procedure for cross-border conversions, mergers and divisions of companies. yes, all enterprises have the right to move to another member state and establish themselves there. yes, i am a trade unionist and this directive allows companies to cross the border. businesses have the right to move within the eu and have done so since the founding of the european union. but this right was never given a framework and was never further regulated. this is why the self-regulation of ecj case law took place over decades always in the absence of rules which confirmed the crossing of the national border and made possible the emergence of letterbox companies. i have always therefore sought a balance: companies can exercise their rights, but all stakeholders, especially workers, must enjoy a high level of protection. we have now found the best common denominator. the main demands of the european parliament are reflected in the new text of the directive: better protection of workers when entrepreneurs move to another member state is guaranteed and a mandatory anti-abuse clause is introduced to avoid circumvention situations such as the creation of letterbox companies. i am very concerned about the workforce in the companies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. a new article on information and consultation of employees will ensure that the rights of employees to information and consultation are respected. express reminders ensure timely information and consultation at all stages of the procedure. in addition, five new rights for workers will be introduced when a company moves to another eu country. no more hearing about the company's move on the news! the new system will provide employees with a detailed report on the future of their employment, they will be asked about the relocation plan and the report, they will be able to comment and comment on it in good time and for the first time they will also be entitled to a reasoned reply from management. it also clarifies that, in addition to the national works councils, the european works councils and the se works councils are also involved in the consultation and that sufficient resources are made available to the works councils to exercise their rights. the protection of worker participation was improved in the commission's proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the second major area in which i have been involved is my work on the committees of this house on the tax scandals - luxleaks, panama papers & co - but also in the field of employment. if we think about the posting of workers - particularly in the transport and construction sectors - we often find abuse through letterbox companies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the acquis communautaire. i am therefore particularly proud that a mandatory anti-abuse clause is now being introduced. if the competent authority or court to which a transfer is to be applied for in the future has serious doubts and fears of abuse, it will have to examine whether the crossing of the border is used to circumvent national or eu laws, such as workers' rights or the payment of taxes or social security contributions, or whether fraudulent or criminal purposes are pursued in all three cross-border transfer procedures. in such cases, they shall not issue a permit for the cross-border movement. this means that if a company wants to abuse its right to move to avoid employment or tax laws or to cover up criminal acts by letterbox companies, it is forbidden to move. this anti-abuse clause, which applies to conversions, mergers and divisions, is also strengthened by the ex post controls after restructuring. if abusive or fraudulent corporate structures are only discovered after restructuring, the authorities may impose effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. so you see, a comprehensive package, and therefore a very special thank you to all the shadow rapporteurs - luis de grandes pascual - and to all the others - pascal durand - who have worked so hard to make a comprehensive package finally decision-able.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the european company law profession requires a marathon runner with sprinter qualities. why would you do that? we have been studying european company law for so many years, with the aim of finally setting up good standards for the whole of europe. and the sprinter qualities because we really fought day and night until the end, until the last plenary session, as we see, in this election period to get this package through. i would like to thank the commissioner, the negotiator for the romanian presidency, gabriela fierbinteanu, the shadow rapporteurs who have been so constructive here, and the staff, especially emilie apell and sabrina winter. i would like to take this last minute to make the following appeal: yes, we have achieved something really big, but the next step should be this framework directive. we need a horizontal instrument for workers, for information and consultation at european level, and the famous escalator, so that we can also adapt flexibly to changing company situations and find the appropriate rules.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i should also like to thank udo bullmann, who was with me in the 'investment campaign' from the start. mobilizing investment is not a sprint, it's a never-ending marathon. we started with the juncker plan at the beginning of this parliamentary term, improved it with efsi 2 and extended it to 2020, then moved into the neighbourhood, especially africa, and now at the end of the parliamentary term we are opening another chapter until 2027 with investeu. it has helped to stimulate eur 1 200 billion in new investment and to support 945 000 small and medium-sized enterprises; some eur 400 billion has been mobilised so far and 1.4 million new jobs have been created. investeu will increase efficiency and reduce red tape by bringing together 14 different financial instruments under one roof, and we will strengthen the implementation of climate and environmental objectives by requiring at least 55% of infrastructure investment to contribute to them in future. we are improving advice and support, especially for small projects, we are increasing resourcefulness by extending the direct award of the eu guarantee to local funding institutions, and we are ensuring the political independence and transparency of investment decisions. investeu is not the end, but the fourth stage of strengthening public and private institutions in the interests of europe, of growth and employment in the right direction. we hope that this path can be continued in the new electoral period.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank very much president karas of the sme intergroup for his support of this sme policy for many years now. small and mediumsized enterprises are a strategic, important choice for the population because they create wealth. i have been following the scene for almost 25 years now and i can still remember how the multiannual programme for smes was created from 2001 to 2005. we had 450 million left. in the cip programme from 2007 to 2013, which i was able to negotiate in a leading role, we funded the entrepreneurship and innovation programme with over two billion, and ultimately cosme was close to three billion and efsi at around 500 billion and now over 1 billion. it is clear that sme policy is being taken seriously at european level. and if we see that 55% of this amount is now earmarked for climate investment and 35% in horizon europe, then we see that europe is making a very progressive policy and that this, of course, means that we must have a leading position internationally. i also thank commissioner bieńkowska because i know that it is not easy to stand up for small and mediumsized enterprises. but we've proven that it's possible. thank you very much and good luck!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to thank you very much on behalf of the house. your presidency has been exemplary. i wish you the best.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. how china develops and how we shape our relations with this emerging region will be a major determinant of europe's future - not just economically, but socially. the developments in this country, which has become the most important player at multilateral level, are worrying. although international conventions are formally recognised, serious violations of freedom of expression are becoming more frequent, and the limits of what is possible are being pushed back, as was the case recently with the conviction of benny tai. the systematic violation of religious freedom is of particular concern. it affects all muslims, christians, buddhists. what is happening to the muslim uighurs in xinjiang would have been unimaginable just a few years ago. the use of modern surveillance technologies and repressive methods is frightening. the only way to stop this from happening is to stop the school from doing it.
president. - mrs von der leyen, i congratulate you on your work. you did an excellent job here today. a lot of us were very critical, and so was i at first. but what i heard was a passionate woman with a vision for europe, who wants to renew europe, who wants to work with parliament, who wants to give us the right of initiative. of course, mrs von der leyen, it is important that you are a woman, that you are pushing gender equality for the new commission, that you really want to fight against sexual violence and that we should stop seeing only three men in tailor-made suits here. but above all, you have convinced me with your vision of a real approach to a european asylum and migration policy, with the speeding up of the work of the border and coast guard, with a european defence union. i would have preferred to have heard the term european army, i admit, but that step may come later. mrs. von der leyen, you are an amazon. i hope that you will keep the reins tight, that you will lead europe over the obstacles and that you will make us great and strong. good luck, you can count on our vote.
mr president, much was said. i will focus on three things. firstly, ms von der leyen, i would like to congratulate you for striking the right balance on climate change, on energy policy and on protecting the environment. we have to do more in this area. we have to improve our energy efficiency. we have to reduce co2 emissions, and we have to do it in a responsible way: by measuring the economic, the social, the environmental impact of the measures that we take; by standing by the side of the people and of the regions that are affected and by strengthening the economy, by strengthening the competitiveness of our economy. you are proposing an ambitious and a realistic approach. i think it is the correct one and i support it. secondly, you are proposing a convergence instrument for the euro area. this is needed, but my kind request to you would be to open this instrument also to countries which are not yet in the euro area but which are preparing to join, to allow countries that are preparing to join the euro area to contribute to this instrument, to benefit from it and to be part of the decision making. this would enable their accession to the euro area. it would strengthen the european economy, and it would also improve unity throughout the european union. thirdly, as a romanian member of the european parliament, i would like to say one word, and this is ‘schengen’. bulgaria and romania have been fulfilling the conditions for joining the schengen area since 2011 and we, the european parliament, have demanded this several times. i would kindly request that you stand by the side of parliament and that, together with us, you use the tools that you have at your disposal to enable bulgaria and romania’s accession to the schengen area. this is the one topic that the citizens of bulgaria and romania are expecting most from the european union. it will improve the security of the schengen area, it will not dilute it. to conclude, i would just like to say: we are a diverse parliament. we are different. we are not the same. but from what i saw today from the president-designate in her guidelines and in her speech, i think she took all of our positions into account, and this is why i say she deserves the support of parliament today.
madam president, mrs von der leyen, the european parliament represents the people directly. as a portuguese socialist, i represent voters who want a progressive agenda for the future of the union. in the discussion we had in my group i had some doubts about your level of commitment to what i and the portuguese delegation have committed ourselves to our voters. however, your written replies and your speech today were much more convincing. we are therefore in a position to move to a new stage, to move towards implementation, and i would like to ask you three questions about implementation: what support can we expect from you to defend an ambitious multiannual financial framework which promotes convergence and cohesion, with responses to the integrated development of the territory? how will you encourage the deepening of the euro area and the creation of a robust european budget capable of protecting the union from systemic crises? how will you translate the positive commitments you have made into concrete policies that will reconnect european citizens with this wonderful project? mrs von der leyen, it is time to take action.
mr president, i am fully convinced of madam von der leyen’s qualities, but the question is, madam von der leyen, not just are you the right person, but are you the right person for this job? there i am not yet fully convinced. firstly, your proposal for a rule of law mechanism in my view is insufficient. it is weak and too narrow in scope and i also happen to know that it’s actually a proposal from mr timmermans that’s supposed to be proposed this week as i had a ‘sneak peek’ at the leaked version. secondly, i would like to hear you say something about how you are going to fight racism and xenophobia, which is a big problem in the european union of today. thirdly, i’m not so concerned about the right policies – because i endorse the proposals that you’ve made – but the enforcement of those policies, because in the european union we’re very good at making rules but extremely bad at enforcing them. i’m talking about dieselgate, data protection scandals at facebook, money laundering – i mean do i need to spell it out? – rule of law and fundamental rights violations in hungary and poland and elsewhere. now previous commissions have been very timid. for me the key question is: you are very much the candidate of the member states, simply because of the procedure that was followed. now, are you going to be – like previous commissions – the lapdog of those member states or are you going to be the pitbull that i would like you to be? that’s what i need to hear.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we are living through a historic moment today, because we must set the course for the next five years in terms of personnel. these are turbulent times, and the turnout alone has shown us that citizens are once again showing greater interest in the european union. but they also expect us to provide solutions. they expect us to guarantee prosperity, freedom and security - in the end, a europe that protects, as the austrian presidency of the council has also been saying. the european people's party is the strongest force, and we claim to want to shape it. the process of nomination can rightly be criticised and has already been accompanied by a loss of public confidence. but to separate from that is the person of the nominee. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have to look forward. we need a european union that can act, and we also need to eliminate deficits. i will take your word if you want to advocate the legal anchoring of the top candidate system in the future. we must take the citizens with us. we must show them above all that the decisions are taken here in a transparent manner at european level. we need visions for europe. but above all we need personalities who are willing to take on this responsibility, who are willing to take an active role in shaping and implementing it. we have a very powerful person at the head of the commission. you didn't convince me of that until today. but i think that many other colleagues have also been convinced of this today. that's why you have our full support. and i can also tell you that i think you're focusing on the right issues, that you're also focusing on issues that haven't been focused on before, like violence against women. we will support you fully in the thematically challenging issues of the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. although i was very, very critical of your nomination, i have to say that you gave a very good speech today, which also contained a lot of important content. but i'll tell you what. europe has heard a lot of good speeches, and it is more about the concrete projects. the point is that we need tax justice in europe at last, that this tax evasion, whether illegal or legal, is stopped. it is about real action on climate change. it is about the social pillar finally becoming a reality in europe and being implemented. and that is precisely the problem with the implementation in europe. it fails very often - almost always - in the member states, and many of them are conservative governed member states under european people's party member parties. that's why i care. but it is precisely this implementation that europe needs most, and last but not least, as regards fundamental rights and the rule of law, it is particularly important to me that we not only talk about it, but also make sure that you, when you are president of the commission, make sure that europe will not kneel before orbán and salvini in the future.
mr president, mrs von der leyen, when i see the challenges we face, i am saddened. when i see the potential of the european union, i take comfort in that. since barack obama is no longer in office, the free world is without leadership, multilateralism is under attack. there's a seat to be filled. who will fill the vacant seat? europe, of course. all the responsible forces in the european union will have to be brought together, first of all to overcome the north-south and east-west divisions. in addition, faced with existential and global threats, starting with climate, we will have to unite the major players such as china, india and the middle east, otherwise the low-carbon economy remains illusory on a global scale. so you have to be brave. if you are elected and you succeed, which i wish you, no one, at the end of your term, will thank you. but if you should fall into misery, which i do not wish you to, you will be sent, and not only you, but we will be sent to the devil. our responsibility is overwhelming, let's take it.
mr president, i would like to say to the commission president—designate that we need to make sure that europe reaches each and every european. europe is not simply or just brussels or strasbourg. europe is each and every one of us. europe must not be more for some and less for others. we need to make sure that europe reaches every village, town, boy, girl, student, professional, every citizen through a well thought out multiannual financial framework (mff) and initiatives. no european should leave their region for an economic reason. rules should apply to all. when countries such as bulgaria fulfil the schengen criteria, they should indeed be part of it. so, madam president-designate, will you engage with member states in the council that find it difficult to recognise that these criteria have been fulfilled? on the euro area, in order not to be seen as a club for some, if countries fulfil the criteria do you foresee the enlargement of the euro area in the next five years? also every business, every entrepreneur and every sme has problems employing prepared and skilled professionals. shouldn’t we be a little bit more ambitious and take decisive action in upskilling our people? after today, it will be very important that we implement the talk, and i’m ready to walk alongside you in delivering a stable energy market and a forward—looking and modernising industry, one that embraces technology and innovation in order to make sure that our continent is even more competitive.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i thank you for your speech, mrs von der leyen. thank you for listening to the social democrats' demands for greater ambition in climate policy. 55 percent reduction in co2 by 2030. it's all right. but if we are to achieve this in the eu, some countries must also be able to take the lead. the nordic countries, with three social democratic governments, are ready to take the lead. in denmark, the new government has set a target of a 70 percent reduction in co2 emissions by 2030. as president of the european commission, will you ensure that those countries which want to take the lead are given the opportunity to do so? for example, by banning diesel and petrol cars if the need arises? we need that. we need an effective and ambitious green transition if we are to save our planet. the eu started as a coal and steel union. i hope you will take the lead in making the eu a climate union. and if you do, you have my support.
mr president, i really hope that ms von der leyen will succeed. i’m not convinced today, but i wish to be convinced by the end of her mandate. if we want to tackle climate change, if we want to define the digital age by european standards, we need to stop disappointing people by always just enforcing the lowest common denominator. we need to surprise them with our ambition and we need to surprise them by supporting the biggest common goal, the biggest common vision that we all have. i agree with many of the points that you raised today, ms von der leyen, but we all know that the main hurdle to tackle them does not lie here or in the commission, but most likely in the council, and the council does seem to be the one institution that comes out of this entire ordeal strengthened and i do worry about that. i do worry that we are not willing to talk about the topics and to go there, to really reform the european union and to go where it hurts. i do think that we need to change this, and this was the vote that the people cast in may – to really reform and renew the european union so that it works better – and i do think that it needs to work better for its citizens. we need to reform and renew the european union because otherwise all the important visions that you laid out today will not come about and i do not think that we have the time for that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the recent events show that this debate is necessary, but we must finally have it honestly. as a former criminal justice and human rights lawyer, i say to you: of course we must save people from certain death in the mediterranean, but we must do much more than that, we must finally eliminate the incentives to flee. we have to stop people from getting on the boats. the opposite is happening now, with actions that get a lot of media attention. hopes are raised, people are lured to board the boats. only to find out shortly after arrival that there was no basis for asylum. the rescue, often just a few kilometres off the african coast, cannot be a ticket to europe. we must finally take this matter into our own hands as europeans and discuss it here, really ruthlessly, find solutions and initiate a lasting reform of the asylum procedure here. if we are concerned about the stability and survival of europe, then it is our duty to start working on solutions now.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to return to the heart of the debate and ask all of you: would you flee your home just because you might be rescued if you were in distress at sea? i certainly did not! this far-reaching decision is made when you are under political or personal pressure at home, because you are losing everything you love - your family, your friends, your familiarity, your language, your culture. so the pull argument doesn't hold up, and it's actually quite simple: can it be a crime to save human lives? i'm not sure. the deaths of thousands of people in the mediterranean have nothing to do with reason or reality. the debate on this subject alone shows the devastating human image that has now taken hold in europe. it's a shame. and if all that isn 't enough , of course, rescue at sea is also a multifaceted, multifaceted legal obligation. this parliament has been calling for years for a dublin reform towards a common, solidarity-based and humane asylum system. but the blockade of individual member states in the council has prevented such a solution for years. instead, they are making political capital out of it, and that is what is dangerous. it divides europe and it encourages the rejection of the eu for its inability to offer solutions. this house has a clear decision-making position. let us all work together to increase the pressure on the council. we have effective proposals on the table, let us put them into practice!
mr president, the objectives of combating climate change are global, but the key measures to achieve them are local. urban mobility is a great tool to turn citizens' concern about the climate emergency into effective emission reductions, into concrete, balanced, sustainable and realistic actions. changing mobility habits starts with you, but it requires conditions. cities and regions need to have all the community support, economic and technical, to be able to plan sustainable urban mobility, such as the excellent commission guide to planning sustainable mobility. that is the way to approach long-term, integrated, measurable and participatory policies. we need laboratories like the one that is being set up in the basque capital these months and networks for the exchange of experience, and we welcome the clear signals sent by europe, which is responsible for setting maximum permitted emissions, to those who, as has just happened with madrid central, are making electoralism out of such a serious matter. we must all work together to have global solutions from the local level.
mr president, as has been said, we are facing a very serious public health problem, with about half a million deaths in the european union. and the fight for air quality is not someone's heritage; it is, in any case, the heritage of european laws which must be respected. and, commissioner, we have a problem with the enforcement of these laws that goes back to the 1980s: 13 infringement proceedings for excessive nitrogen dioxide emissions in some member states; 16 for fine particulate matter emissions. we have a real problem, and cities have been alone in fighting this problem. up to 231 low emission zones have been developed in the european union, while in many member states - as for example in spain, where madrid and barcelona have been at the forefront of this fight - we had bad diesel taxation, the state did not invest in public transport, we did not have proper labelling by the traffic authorities... cities have been alone in doing that. what do i ask of the european commission? i basically ask you to support the local authorities when they are brave in this fight. you cannot be blind when some try to close down madrid central, when it has been successful, by reducing by 17 percent the nitrogen dioxide emissions in the city. be brave and defend central madrid against the right-wing attacks.
mr president, one of the perverse effects of globalisation has been rampant urbanisation and worrying pollution. today, the formidable challenge of green cities is faced with the stark reality of ever-increasing pollution and a multiplication of flows and human and economic interactions. stopping this process is vital. cities should be cleared of congestion, efforts to innovate and capture pollutants should be stepped up, virtuous circuits should be created, in short, european cities should be re-rooted so that they can finally breathe. but these emergency measures must be complemented by a complete reversal of the vicious spiral by halting urbanisation and reinvesting less urbanised land to make it habitable. the fight against desertification, both human and vegetative, must be given priority. bossuet said, "god laughs at men who mourn the effects of their cherished causes". i wish to express here the wish for a radical awareness-raising so that we can find the phenomenon of metropolisation at the source of the pollution of our cities and the serious damage to our health.
mr president, 400 000 people a year die prematurely in europe because of air pollution, 40 000 in the uk. so let’s be clear at the start of this mandate that protecting public health and removing environmental risks to health should be one of our first and foremost priorities and it’s why we must demand more ambition on climate change and sustainability from ms von der leyen. and it is why i speak today to remind us that brexit won’t just be an economic disaster for my country, it will be an environmental disaster as well. it is also why i stand today to support my spanish colleagues on this side of the house in their concern and anger about what is happening in madrid. ‘madrid central’ is europe’s most successful clean air zone. we should be building on that progress and learning from that progress. i also applaud the work happening in cities like leicester and nottingham in my constituency: big efforts to reduce vehicle emissions and promote sustainable transport. finally, when positive environmental progress is attacked and undermined we must defend that progress together. the new right-wing populism we see today is a real and present danger to progressive environmentalism, so if we are serious about that better carbon neutral future with clean air for our kids to breathe, then we must speak out when that progress is threatened. we must defend that progress we are making, and we must win the argument against those who want to trash the future and who want to turn back the clock on the progress we are making.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is good that we have made environmental policy a very relevant issue for the majority in this house. but we must also talk about air quality, because a recurrent and persistent exceeding of the limit values throughout the union is really a danger to the health of the population in general. but we also have a responsibility to do what is sustainable, which is perhaps a little more complex to do, but above all, it is effective. i have already noticed that in the debate here, everything is simplified. i think that we should not really discuss what comes from the far right, because of 'no, no, no, and it is globalisation's fault, but it would be important to talk about what is effective and important and useful in the long term for the people of europe as a whole. and that's because we're expanding public transport everywhere, because when it's available, people will get around. it would be even more important that we have a union-wide charging infrastructure for alternative drives as well. this is also something that would really make a difference across borders, and that we finally address the wood tab, because often fine dust and nitrogen oxides come from the cozy fireplace. and it would also be important that we talk about the limits, because the fact that you have to put in place no-go zones for legal vehicles actually tells us that we have to change the standards.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am very pleased to be giving my first speech here in the european parliament on such an important subject for my generation. we, the young, are the ones who suffer from the failures of the last few years, and it is also worth mentioning that many climate romantics here unfortunately want to solve the problem by banning diesel vehicles or by creating car-free zones in cities. however, such measures are not always welcome, and this is often a major problem, especially for rural populations, as a car is the only means of getting to cities. instead of a prohibitory culture or a hypocritical control mania in the eu, we really need incentives for climate-friendly technologies. the promotion of alternative energy sources, as was also mentioned yesterday by mrs ursula von der leyen, must be a priority throughout europe. electric mobility or the enormous potential of hydrogen must be better promoted and must also be made affordable for everyone. successful models such as e-scooters, which are already very popular in many large cities, also need to be further developed, and this also requires the necessary legal certainty. of course, public transport is also important, and it provides the basis for further good measures. we must stop talking about permanent bans and sanctions and look to the future, to how we can make a significant contribution to urban air quality by using future technologies.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that is what has been heard in the last few hours, and we all agree: we do not want to pollute the air, and this approach is also good and right. but serious european action cannot be micromanagement or patronage. we have to take care of the big questions. how can we reduce emissions across the board? what alternative fuels can we use? and, more importantly, how can we promote joint research, for example in the hydrogen sector? it's too easy for me to think of the classic car as just an enemy. my mother couldn't have done without her car. two kids, one job, little use for public transportation. so yes, we should continue to expand public transport, but we should also be mindful of the living conditions of the people. and ladies and gentlemen, please, let's not patronize the people. we must not dictate to them how to live, but we must take advantage of new technologies, invest in research and development. we must take people along this path and we must offer them practical and intelligent solutions. my home region of tyrol is one of the regions which is particularly affected by transport problems. we need common solutions here, and tyrol needs its european neighbours here too. the brenner base tunnel is the largest infrastructure project in europe that we are currently building. a tunnel alone is not enough. let us do our homework at european level, let us change the access routes and make the railways more attractive. this would be a real step in the right direction, towards a better air quality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. thank you very much for the nice introduction. yes, i'm from austria. 48% of the land is forest, so almost 50% of our land is forest. so perhaps you can understand why the forest is so important to me. but before we talk about the state of europe's forests, i want to make it clear why forests are so important. in the fight against climate change, there is no greater supporter than our sustainable but managed forests. co2 is stored in wood and also in wood products. the forest is to be protected, but it is also to be used wisely. the forestry sector is a key sector in the eu's energy policy. it is therefore very important to me that we approach the subject objectively. the climate is changing. the pressure from pests and extreme weather events is taking place. in view of this, the european commission must respond and support our forest owners and the forestry sector as a whole. we therefore need a new, very strong eu forestry strategy that will continue to provide clarity in the future. we cannot accept cuts in the second pillar of the agricultural budget, which also supports our forestry owners. we need public money to be able to deal with the climate change impacts in our forests. i think that the extension of the european solidarity fund is a very good way of helping the forest owners concerned. you can be our partners in the future.
i have to say, madam president, tomatoes are not machines and broccoli are not technical processes. there can be no patents on life, on food, on the means of life. i have been surprised to see the european patent office's interpretation of patent law. there is a great danger, a real danger, that breeders and therefore farmers will no longer have access to existing varieties. a monopoly of a few seed producers, who have no other goal than to maximize profits, can and must be prevented and is not acceptable at all. it is also clear to me that the european patent office is not expressing the general good and political will, but its own financial interests. i was also very interested to hear that the commissioner-designate for agriculture, mr wojciechowski, as an mep in 2015, spoke out clearly against plant patenting. i hereby call on him to take an active part in enforcing the will of parliament and to take action against the european patent office in this respect.
i have to say, madam president, the record of ecb policy under president draghi is a terrible one: bankrupt governments and speculators have been supplied with cheap money, and real estate prices are at record highs. the small savers, whose savings are worthless, who no longer receive interest and who even fear being penalized with negative interest for their refusal to consume, have paid for all this. and what happens now, after the dirty deal between lame duck merkel and master of the national debt macron: give me the commission, then i get the ecb, then you get the ecb. after this dirty deal we are prepared to spend another eight years at the expense of the european citizens. whoever saves loses; whoever sustains is the fool. the fact that mrs lagarde did not rule out the possibility of abolishing cash and direct negative interest for savers in the committee is a dangerous threat. if there is no more cash to hide, then there will probably be a 10% expropriation of all assets, as mrs lagarde has called for during her time as head of the imf. i'm scared already.
the commission has already done so. the attempt to influence decisions and elections in the european union is no longer a phenomenon that we could attribute purely to science fiction novels. after electoral manipulation in the usa and also in france, this phenomenon has now also arrived in austria. just a few weeks ago, the headquarters of the austrian people's party was hacked. an unimaginable amount of data, 1.3 gigabytes, was stolen and at least partly shared, just weeks before the national council elections. the essential thing, of course, is a complete and rapid information. political opponents have indeed questioned the authenticity of this attack. but the highly specialized police investigators now know that this was a large-scale and professional hacker attack. first trace leads to foreign servers. it is clear to me that tactical calculation is required when it comes to such a serious intervention. the fact is that this is not just an attack on the austrian people's party, but on democracy as a whole. disinformation prevents free will and thus jeopardises democratic decision-making in elections. i therefore consider today's debate and the resolution which will be adopted very shortly to be essential, because it is now necessary to find european solutions here to protect our elections from such criminal machinations. it is nothing less than our basic values, our way of life in europe. we must defend it with all our vigour and with all our means.
i have to say, madam president, since the beginning of the year, 6,000 square kilometres of forest have been burned in the amazon. that's equivalent to about 8% of the land area of my home country, austria. as you have said, mr commissioner, 80% of these rainforest areas are already being used to increase agricultural production. the result is huge farms, which are not comparable to our european farms. the link with mercosur is obvious, and it is shameful for europe to see the rainforest system being supported here. we cannot be expected to meet the climate targets in europe and at the same time import meat from mercosur countries, when we european farmers actually produce enough regional products of sufficient quality and quantity. if this state of the burning continues, if the brazilian government continues to stand by, i call for strong consequences and for the banning of imports of beef from mercosur countries, as the finnish presidency has already proposed.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. protecting the european way of life also means that our work requires us to catch up in major technical areas compared to other economic areas such as asia or the usa. with horizon 2020, we are investing in key future issues for our competitiveness, for our economic location and thus also for our employment. as an entrepreneur, i am pleased that this programme also benefits smes, which are, after all, the backbone of our society and our economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. many european countries have a very good cooperation between smes and industry a win-win situation for both. our industrial enterprises are facing major challenges. only they can develop solutions to climate change through research and development in the field of renewable energy, with a corresponding broad impact on the population. in view of this, i cannot understand why the council is making cuts in this particular horizon programme.
in writing. the situation in turkey is worrying; turkey has abandoned the path of democracy. the arbitrary treatment of democratically elected mayors is not compatible with the european convention on human rights, but is a clear breach of the european convention on human rights. turkey must also abide by the judgments of the european court of human rights. the european parliament has also called for the release of the former president of the council, mr giscard d'estaing, and for the release of mr giscard d'estaing, the former president of the council, mr giscard d'estaing and the former president of the commission, mr giscard d'estaing.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. protecting the european way of life requires that europe remains a strong trading community, to safeguard jobs, to safeguard our prosperity. we all know that our trading landscapes are fragile internationally, especially since the political alpha wolves of the world have no interest in an economically strong europe. we are in a sandwich position between china and the united states, and i do not think it is wise to increase the tariffs on each other. it's more expensive and it also creates a lot of red tape. germany will be the most affected by this trade dispute. exports are expected to lose up to 2 billion euros. this is relatively bad for the surrounding neighbouring countries which are suppliers to germany, and there is a risk that it will trigger a chain reaction. it cannot and must not be that a dispute between two aircraft manufacturers is carried on the backs of our smes and our agricultural industry. i therefore call on the commission to provide clarity both within the wto and to engage in intensive discussions with the united states in order to achieve a win-win solution for our economy, our jobs and our prosperity.
the turkish government has today, october 9, 2019, started its war against minorities under the cynical title operation peace spring. in doing so, erdoğan has made it clear once and for all that he is not a reliable partner for the eu. the invasion is a humanitarian catastrophe. displacement and new movements of refugees will be the result. the region is already home to many members of minorities who have fled from is and found safety there. the population is already heavily dependent on humanitarian aid. this threatens to escalate the whole situation in the region. the turkish invasion is a breach of international law. the eu has the power to impose economic and diplomatic sanctions and should use them. the arms sales by individual european member states to turkey are also completely wrong. we know these weapons are being used against minorities. we owe the liberation of isis to the syrian armed forces. the dutch s&d mep kati piri stressed in the debate: 'they were the ones who were fighting on the ground'. if we take human rights seriously, it is up to us now to take all the necessary measures to prevent the war against rojava.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i find it fundamentally incomprehensible that genetically modified products are allowed to be imported into europe where a health risk to our citizens cannot be completely excluded. in these specific cases, the feeds are from herbicide-resistant plants which have often been treated with far too many weed killers. today's debate also provides an opportunity to refer once again to the statement made by commission president von der leyen, which was also confirmed by the commissioner-designate for health, that resolutions which receive a majority in this parliament will be taken into account in future decisions by the commission. i wonder if these statements will hold up if we reject the import of genetic engineering here in the house tomorrow and in the future. that would be a real advance.
i have to say, madam president, the commission notes that the 2015 package travel directive does not provide for a harmonised approach to the treatment of travellers in the event of insolvency of the travel provider thomas cook. the problem is that there's not enough insurance coverage. clearly, no lessons were learned from the bankruptcy of the travel provider arcandor in 2009, ten years ago, when a similar situation had arisen. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tourist industry is able to compete with other tourist industries. i therefore propose an evaluation of the implementation of the package travel directive in the member states. the aim is to derive improvements to the directive in order to restore consumer confidence in the tourism industry in the future.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. the austrian presidency of the council succeeded in adopting a council declaration on combating anti-semitism, in which all member states committed themselves to developing a security concept for jewish institutions and communities throughout europe. the urgency of this was already shown by a study by the fundamental rights agency published in december. the study involved nearly 16 400 jews from 12 member states, representing some 96% of the jewish population in the european union. the conclusion: jews are feeling increasingly insecure in europe. well, what happened since then? apparently not enough, because otherwise it would not have been possible that on the most important holiday of judaism, yom kippur, a synagogue is completely unguarded and a heavily armed assassin can fight off. two people were killed, and only by a miracle was a much larger massacre prevented. the event in the middle of germany will forever be deeply etched in the collective memory not only of the jewish communities. it is therefore high time that the member states were reminded that it is not enough to adopt declarations. now we must finally take concrete action. the decades-old and well-functioning cooperation with the police in austria can be a model and a model of best practice here. a tragedy like that in halle must not happen again. the governments of all the member states are called upon to do so.
i have to say, madam president, brexit is becoming more and more of a never ending story. it is the third british prime minister to deal with this issue, and it has only gotten worse. the failure of brexit - to put it bluntly - is the result of the tories' divisions, it is the result of british prime minister johnson's political selfishness, and it is a selfish game played on the backs of the people and citizens, especially in the united kingdom. if it needs brexit, it needs a sensible deal, but one thing we also need to be clear about is that whatever form brexit takes, it means fewer social rights, less consumer protection, less money for the uk health system, and therefore a bad idea. we cannot stop the uk government from making a mistake. but we must not make a mistake ourselves, and it is therefore clear that in my view this european parliament cannot decide on the deal until the british parliament has taken that decision with all its chambers. then it's our turn.
blue-card answer. – lately i have been having fun reading mr trump’s tweets, and i’m not very sure that they are thriving.
madam president, i have been involved with two agencies for a long time within the itre committee. the galileo satellite navigation project is approaching full constellation and it is imperative to maintain a high level of security. and that's not going to happen without more people and resources for the gsa. in addition, the agency must prepare for the expansion of its competences in the framework of the european union space programme. the second agency is the berec office. it's the smallest agency that's been undersized for a long time. in light of new tasks for telecoms regulators, the introduction of 5g, etc., this agency also needs to be strengthened. i personally thank you very much, mr commissioner, mr oettinger, for your long-standing cooperation and i am confident that this modest increase in the budget will be successfully implemented in the context of the negotiations with the council and the commission.
madam president, the eu budget for the next year assumes a full contribution from the uk of around gbp 13 billion for 2020, yet it is now over three years since britain voted to leave the eu. boris johnson has reheated theresa may’s deal and would commit the uk to paying full budget contributions, without proper representations, in 2020. the treaty would also sign us up to the liabilities of the european investment bank, which could amount to hundreds of billions if it were ever to collapse. the proposed treaty also divides the uk with a customs boundary in the irish sea. this is a clear breach of the uk government commitment to a joint report in 2017 to allow unfettered access to the market in great britain for northern ireland businesses. the uk’s fed up with paying billions to the eu. we voted to leave, and it is becoming clear that a deal, whether it be theresa may’s or boris’s, is not going to get through parliament. so it’s time to shake hands on a clean-break brexit. only then will the decision of 17.4 million people be implemented and democracy respected.
madam president, i look forward to a budget negotiation where the commission acts as a genuine honest broker, and we come out at the end of the deal with a clearly documented agreement this year that makes it absolutely clear what that agreement is, because it’s essential that the budget authority works together well. but let’s be clear about what we’re talking about in this budget. over the period of this multiannual financial framework (mff), the european union budget has reduced by 3.5% in real terms. it is equivalent to slightly less than one percent of gni. the rest of public expenditure in the united kingdom, above that 1%, is 39%. this is one 40th of the uk’s public expenditure. because we achieve a great deal more together than we will ever achieve as individual member states. we need to ramp up research, we need to ramp up innovation, and we need to ramp up investment in the areas which will gear us to a modern green economy that can address the future and address climate change adequately. ten cents more per person per week might well be worth that.
mr president, we are all well aware of the severe budgetary pressures for next year or for the longer multiannual frameworks to come. but it is our duty to ensure that brexit and other budgetary pressures do not fall on agriculture and food production alone. europeans deserve to have food that is safe, sustainable and of good quality, produced close to home, and that is why the conditions in which european farmers operate must continue to be safeguarded. it is very important that the european parliament does not make cuts in agriculture in this budget, which is the last before the next financial period. this in turn requires that we honestly assess whether we can avoid a subtle increase in membership fees. i think 1.3 per cent is too much, but not to raise it is just as unrealistic.
question on the 'blue card' procedure: could you perhaps specify which measures in the fight against climate change you think have no proven effectiveness and should therefore not be budgetary for us?
madam president, we are among those who really, consciously believe in a strong european union. we believe in and support this european union. we have a vision of a european union which is social, developmental, but also strong in defence and security. but to create a really strong and proud european union, we need a strong budget, and a strong european budget cannot exist if the european council continues to cut - short-sightedly, blindly - funds that strengthen the social dimension, growth, security of the european union. we want a strong europe, a europe that can stand up to all those who attack and undermine it, because we cannot imagine our world for a single day without the european union. strong is the europe that boosts the funds of horizon 2020, that supports erasmus+, that supports our smes, our farmers, that supports all those who are in real need, the ordinary citizens; the european union's policy must reach the lowest citizen and the lowest country in the european union, my own small country, cyprus. on the other hand, the european union and the european budget must not give even a euro to countries or to those who violate the rule of law and human rights or become invaders in the 21st century. and a typical case is turkey. the european union cannot, in 2019, discuss gender equality, which should be a precondition and a prerequisite, and we must send a message through the budget that anyone who violates gender equality in the member states must pay a price. finally, i would like to thank the commissioner, the dear mr oettinger, for the really substantial and impressive work he has done to ensure that we have a strong budget, and i hope that the european council will listen to him.
i have to say, madam president, the 2020 budget is about nothing less than essential and essential projects for the future of europe. the next year will be a crucial one for our community. it is about education and european cohesion, as represented by the erasmus programme. every euro here is well invested in our future. it's about digitization, it's about cancer research. these are all issues that affect europeans in their everyday lives. it is about greater cooperation in security and justice, and it is about fighting climate change and the existential threat it poses. last but not least, another important project for next year is the conference on the future of the european union. we feel more and more every week that we need to urgently reform and question the institutional structure of the union. it's fallen out of time. and if we want europe not to fall out of time, then we have to change it. if it were to happen that the member states were to prevent substantial investment, that would be a fatal signal to europeans, to young people, to the future. europe must be able to deliver, and that requires resources.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mrs muñoz, for her work. protecting the european way of life also means for me that the funding of the european institutions must be understandable to our citizens. however, as in previous years, our members in the committee could not agree to the discharge in 2017. in 2017, the council had a budget of eur 562 million but was not prepared to respond to the written questions and also to participate in the hearing on the completion of the discharge process. i hope, as do my colleagues, that we will find a good solution here, and i thank our colleague and committee chair, mrs hohlmeier, for having started negotiations with the council. i would like to see more transparency in the future for the european union, but not for the citizens of the union, but for the organizations and institutions of the union, especially when they are financed by the taxpayers of our citizens.
in writing. the blockade of individual member states in the directive on the publication of corporate income tax information must finally be ended. we must be careful to shed light on the darkness of tax structures in order to achieve tax justice and fair competition. the aim of the directive is to increase the public accountability of large companies with a turnover of more than eur 750 million. the european parliament has also done its work in this area, adopting a position in april 2017. unfortunately, progress in this important area is once again being thwarted by the negative attitude of some member states. we cannot allow small and mediumsized enterprises to pay their taxes honestly, while large companies bypass the tax authorities by using shifting tactics or by operating as letterbox companies. we must work to ensure that large companies also contribute fairly to the wealth of society through taxation, we must promote fair tax competition and increase transparency and accountability to the public. the directive can help us to dry up tax havens and tax swamps and to set in motion a fairer and more transparent tax system. i therefore call on the member states to abandon their blockade and to come to the negotiating table with the european parliament.
i have to say, madam president, the turkish military offensive is firstly against international law and secondly clearly motivated by turkish domestic politics, because erdoğan has lost many elections recently. the consequences of this are the mass flight of civilians, of kurds, christians, syrians, armenians and yazidis. more than 200 000 people are already on the run, including 70 000 children. there is a danger that the 'islamic state' will be reinforced, and we must say very clearly that the ypg are not terrorists but freedom fighters who have also liberated europe from the plague of islamic terror. what does it need now? it is necessary to have a real ceasefire, a diplomatic offensive, a demilitarised zone, humanitarian aid, an arms embargo, sanctions against turkey, a discussion on whether we should suspend accession negotiations, and above all solidarity with the kurdish self-government in rojava.
the commission has already done so. there are two things we can all agree on: firstly, it is our international, but above all our humanitarian duty to save lives, and secondly, trafficking is one of the worst violations of human rights and must therefore be combated by all means. as we are discussing rescue at sea, a humanitarian disaster has occurred in england: 39 bodies were found in a lorry, presumably dragged by persons. this is strikingly reminiscent of a drama in austria in august 2015 on the a4 near parndorf. 71 people were found dead in a parked truck. incidents like this are a stark reminder of the brutality of traffickers, who exploit people's despair and, quote, accept the death of their customers for their own profit. we must not play into the wrong hands here and we must be aware of the signals we are sending. the completely out of the question rescue in the mediterranean must be separated from what happens afterwards, and as long as rescue in the mediterranean is the ticket to europe, people will continue to board shaky boats, in danger of dying here. we must therefore remain realistic and do what is necessary, namely to improve cooperation with third countries, to establish safe havens in third countries and transit countries and to give the continent of africa a future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as the commissioner for enlargement, johannes hahn, has rightly said, this decision by the european council is a serious mistake. the french president in the council is also responsible for this grave error. the problem is that we all in europe must bear the consequences of this mistake together. it is important to emphasize that the european union has to fulfil the commitments it has made. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. i therefore hope that the european council will correct this mistake as soon as possible. but we as a parliament must also take every opportunity - through the delegations, through bilateral contacts, through the jean monnet process - to strengthen our contacts with north macedonia and albania even more now, to show that we think this decision was wrong and that we want it to be rectified soon.
i have to say, madam president, (mike's voice breaks) ... that children are not just seen as future citizens with equal rights, but as human beings with rights of their own. it is precisely because they have special needs that a fundamental paradigm shift is needed towards a society that respects and values the diversity of all its individuals. the foundation for this was laid 30 years ago with the un convention. i thank all those who have already campaigned for this convention and invite those who have not yet done so to join this lobby for children's rights. the implementation of the convention is a drill in hard boards. we need to focus on what the global challenges of the coming decades - such as digital technologies, environmental change, long-standing violent conflicts or intergenerational poverty - mean for children's lives and opportunities. and we need to act now. in the eu alone, 28 million children live in poor families. despite contributing 22.8% to the world economy, one in four eu children is at risk of poverty at all costs. there is a lot of bad going on around the world in terms of children's rights: war, displacement, violence, genital mutilation, climate change, forced labor, forced marriage. too often, children are not given a chance at all. i therefore hope that europe will set a shining example in the field of children's rights. english writer charles dickens put it this way: "children experience injustice as bitterly and sharply as anything else". let's save the children from the bitterness and bitterness in their lives!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in september, in vučjak, in the middle of europe, i saw the consequences of what european governments had sold as the closure of the balkan route. nothing is settled, but this policy has increased the misery of refugees, together with the profits of the smugglers. people waiting in the cold and filth for europe to help them. the responsibility does not lie with the bosnian authorities alone, but is the result of the failed european asylum policy and the illegal pushbacks by the croatian police. there is still no stopping senseless death. i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the council and the commission, to conclude your speeches and act. it needs decent housing, an immediate end to the illegal pushbacks of croatia and legal pathways for asylum applications. promoting the european way of life means making the prospect of accession for the western balkans as binding as the rule of law and respect for human rights, as is required by eu member croatia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. at the beginning of our discussion in this room today, i heard the words clarity, understanding and transparency. i think that we need clarity through careful wording in this debate, and we need transparency through sound figures. i welcome the discussions around cop 25. i think i speak for the overwhelming majority here in saying that we europeans have made it one of our main tasks to preserve our planet, not just for ourselves, but for all of us and for our children. that's good too. our shoulders are strong, and i believe that those who can carry more have a moral obligation to carry more. we can do that as europe. i think our great strength is that we can tackle complex problems with technological solutions. but alone we can accomplish far too little. sustainability, to me, is not a question of either-or, but the interplay between environmental protection and economics, environmental protection and mobility, and so on and so forth. the power is in the balance.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i don't see it that way. it is a bit controversial: we all support ukraine's efforts to implement the association agreement in full. but it is a bitter pill that ukrainian poultry giant mhp, which bills itself as a game changer for the global chicken industry and wants to do more business in the eu's key markets, is benefiting from its successful bone-chilling trick and being rewarded with a big increase in the duty-free export quota. it is said that this has at least plugged a loophole. but let's be honest, i say it's just unfair that a fraudulent trade stream is being legalized. it should be noted that the animal husbandry conditions in ukraine do not meet european standards and thus create an unfair competitive situation vis-à-vis eu farmers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the crisis. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. protecting the european way of life also requires a future-oriented budget. we are certainly on the right track with investments in research, youth and climate protection. it is important to me that the success of eu programmes is measured not only by the level of use made of them by the member state but also by how these budgets reach citizens, businesses and regions. i also appreciate that we have the courage to change and adapt eu programmes. i see the yei programme, for example, less as a structure than as a programme to make up for the shortcomings of some member states in the training of young people. i would like to see it started much earlier, that our young people are given much more support during their training. the budget is a matter of numbers, and the wishes of the political groups were very broad in the negotiations. with eur 169 billion in commitments and eur 154 billion in payments, we have achieved an ambitious budget, which is less than 1% of the gni of the 28 member states. efficient use of resources is very important for our citizens, both at national and eu level. it is now up to the commission, but also to the member states, to ensure that these programmes are accurate.
i have to say, madam president, floods, landslides, mudslides, avalanches: these are common occurrences in austria. however, we find that these events are becoming more intense and occurring at shorter intervals. i have had this experience as mayor of a town of 14 000 inhabitants. it may be a small town, but we have a great cultural heritage, and we are also the european capital of culture in 2024. the money for prevention is often lacking, and i would also urge that the funds for risk management for prevention be considered. often there is no money for flood warning plans, flood imagery, flood level monitors, equipment for our volunteers, or flood warning maps. it is very important to provide funds for prevention and to invest in this area as well. the funds for appropriate protection measures are often lacking. i would ask that this be taken into account.
mr president, israel is embedded in a very unstable region called the middle east. in german we call it nahe osten: that means ‘near east’, because it’s only 3.5 hour’s flight from vienna to tel aviv. besides the inner israeli conflict, we should not lose sight of the fact that israel is surrounded by countries – let’s say enemies – who want nothing else than to erase the country from the landscape. that is why they have one of the most modern and innovative security systems such as the iron dome. security is a raison d'être, simply because they have to defend their own country on a daily basis. israel, as the only democratic state in the region, deserves the full support of the european union. it is our partner and it is our security guarantee also for the european union. the eu also has to remain relevant in a future political process between israel and palestine and to be perceived as an honest and balanced broker.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking you in particular for the many initiatives and for your successful work, particularly in trying to reach an agreement with iran. but in recent days we have received shocking images from iran: demonstrations and unrest because the economic, social and political-democratic situation has become unbearable for the population. the brutal reaction of the iranian regime - hundreds of dead, thousands of prisoners - shows how inhuman this regime is. the iranian government must respect human rights, freedom of expression, freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, freedom of demonstration, freedom of information and also the free internet. but it also requires de-escalation, and it also requires a return to the negotiating table in foreign policy. the crisis must be defused and no more oil must be poured into the fire, as the american president is doing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european commission, on a regular basis, self-styled environmentalists break into animal shelters during nighttime and foggy events, disturbing the animals and taking pictures inside. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take action against infringements of the rules on the protection of the environment. unfortunately, a law to this effect was rejected this year in our national council in austria, and the fpö and other parties did not give their consent. our farmers need effective means throughout europe to prevent illegal encroachment on their property. it cannot be right for someone to just walk into someone else's property, leaving behind insecurity and devastation, and then possibly publishing pictures or videos that have been manipulated and misinforming people about it. this is simply not right! it is not the environmentalists who need more protection from the eu, but our farmers who need more protection and action from the eu against radical environmentalists.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am speaking in this house as a member of the european parliament and today also as an it entrepreneur. we heard that in 2017, the eu vat gap was around 137 billion euros. this is not a full seventh of the total of the current multiannual financial framework, or the same amount we have spent on competitiveness, growth and jobs in seven years - mind you. this shows the urgent need for regulations to prevent vat fraud. the growing gap is also due to specific vat fraud in e-commerce. but a single member state rarely has the means or all the information needed and therefore hardly a chance of tackling the problem. with this proposal we have, the member states now have, a powerful tool in their hands to ensure and also control fair conditions of competition for international trade and online trade. we will also be sending a positive signal to all the small and mediumsized enterprises which already bear the bulk of the tax burden.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european central bank is therefore closing ranks. from the point of view of president lagarde, this is also quite understandable, because it is now becoming increasingly clear how devastating this fatal low interest rate policy of the ecb is for the whole euro area. savers are being dispossessed in cold blood in favour of bankrupt governments and shell companies, the housing market is becoming overheated, rents and land prices are rising to the point of being unaffordable, bubbles are forming, the wealth gap is growing driven by these policies further and further apart. social tensions are the result. the retirement provision of millions of eu citizens is at risk. the european central bank's real task, price stability, has long since been removed from the picture. the only beneficiaries are speculators and bankrupt governments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and this is probably the most important point that speaks for mrs schnabel, especially when one considers that her three german predecessors on the ecb's executive board all resigned prematurely in protest against this very devastating low-interest rate policy. but this will also be very, very important in the european central bank in the future. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. breaking the law is thus becoming a sad tradition at the ecb. the interests of the citizens are no longer important at all, and the ecb is finally becoming a lobbying organization for speculators and bankruptcy. unfortunately, from what she has said so far, we can only conclude that mrs schnabel will also support this policy against the citizen. it's too bad.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the market has never waited for the administration to provide the right conditions for its development. and that's what keeps us challenged. this situation opens up loopholes in the law which allow international and digital companies to obtain additional advantages due to their size and dominance. and at the same time, small and mediumsized enterprises bear the full burden of taxation, which is unfair to the location. i have been an entrepreneur for 12 years myself and can therefore understand the situation very well. this resolution is an important input to the ongoing oecd concertation. one thing cannot be emphasized enough in this context: we must move away from this outdated idea of a single physical establishment and create a tax environment in which transactions are taxed where they are made. because one thing is clear: our economy is certainly not going to become less digital in the next few years. i therefore welcome this initiative by parliament and will be very happy to support the resolution.
i have to say, madam president, murder does not expire, every murder is one murder too many, and every murder leaves relatives and friends not only with their grief alone, but above all with the desire for full enlightenment. as a former correctional officer, i've seen this happen a few times. but there are murders that have a far wider meaning. the cold-blooded murder of the maltese investigative journalist is an attack on freedom of the press. it is an attack on our values in our united europe. a woman's life is being erased because she doesn't get tired of fighting against corruption and for the rule of law. a woman's life must be ended because she is silenced and silenced forever, and the plotters are sitting in the prime minister's immediate vicinity. and now i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, what reason could there be for not demanding the immediate resignation of the prime minister? what is stopping the s&ds from speaking out vigorously here in the european parliament and not making a lip service? the murder must be solved and presented in all its facets to the public. there's no doubt about that. but the s&d group's insistence on muscat as prime minister, whether for one or 30 more days, is completely unworthy of our values in the european union. imagine if this had happened in another country outside the european union! what speeches would we hear here in the european parliament, especially from the s&d group? i therefore call for immediate consequences, for the resignation of prime minister muscat, so that malta can once again be free to undertake the reforms necessary to establish the rule of law and an independent judiciary.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we must finally banish harmful chemicals from our fields. we know that it's not just harmful to biodiversity, it's not just harmful to pollinators, it's harmful to birds in the field, and it's harmful to our own health. more pesticides means more resistance, and then more pesticides. this can't be the answer! the current version of our resolution rightly states that plans for the reduction of pesticides are needed in each individual eu member state. these should, however, include clear objectives and timetables. we cannot afford any more well-meaning but inconsequential announcements. eu-wide binding reduction targets need to be enshrined in law. this could happen, for example, in a sustainable cap, which has not been the case so far. i would also like to urge everyone to vote in favour of an amendment tabled by my group. the commission is called upon to ban all neonicotinoid-based pesticides. we now know that they are dangerous, they are poisonous, they no longer belong in nature and they no longer belong on our plates.
i have to say, madam president, modern, climate-friendly agriculture needs standards that enable sustainable food production on our family farms in europe. this has to be taken into account in the green deal. as regards free trade agreements, i wonder whether green deal diplomacy will now also apply to our trading partners. how will the commission ensure that there is no double standard in this area? where are the red lines drawn that are really needed? if we are serious about the green deal, imports from third countries must meet equally high environmental and climate standards. but there is a legitimate doubt about the mercosur deal in terms of production standards, sustainable production requirements and animal welfare. we are measuring imports from third countries in two ways. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. will it be included in the green deal? keyword soybean imports: do food and feed have to fly across the atlantic? what emphasis will the commission place on food origin labelling in the green deal? the aim is to enable every consumer to make a climate change-friendly purchase by buying local products. we farmers and forestry workers are very concerned about the environment and climate, which is the basis of our livelihood. we are already making a significant contribution. as a farmer, as a practitioner from austria, very honourable commissioner, we need a framework for this. we need stability, predictability, practical measures and a return on our services to the public. this is about preserving a profession!
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. a free trade agreement with the mercosur group of countries would further open up the european market for south american agricultural products. meat producers, such as those in brazil, who can produce large quantities at low cost, could continue to increase their exports and production significantly, with fatal consequences for the environment and the european internal market. the poisoning of man and nature by the widespread use of pesticides in mercosur agriculture is a well-known problem, including environmental toxins which are banned in europe. the animal and plant health standards used in south america have nothing in common with eu standards. in addition, practices such as fire-deforestation partially of rainforests are used to extract agricultural land. we must ensure that trade agreements do not jeopardise or water down the eu's achievements, and i do not see that happening here at the moment.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. if you have listened to the speakers here, you must say that europe obviously does not want a mercosur agreement, and for good reasons. the moral necessity and the obligation which you should feel now as the voice of europe to put this mercosur agreement to rest is clear. if you read the headline today, compatibility between the european green deal and mercosur it does not exist for many different reasons. it starts with climate change, environmental protection, empowering small farmers, protecting biodiversity, importing soy, trading food for machines. so what are we here for? are we here for the humans? are we for the small farmers? or are we still supporting big business?
