mr president, i want simply to clarify that the proposal that i did in the cop was at the request of four coordinators of four groups, all responsible for the committee on international trade (inta). so if you want to have a debate, i have nothing against a debate, but i want to tell you that when these four coordinators of inta ask to have this way of working and have no debate, i was simply translating their opinion. that has nothing to do with politics, and i hope that ms hautala can also see it in this way.
the rapporteur. mr president, 1 070 865 citizens have asked us, through a european citizens' initiative, to examine and reform the decision-making procedure for the authorisation of pesticides. this report by the special committee on the union's pesticide authorisation procedure shows that we are taking this matter seriously. i'm very pleased with the result. it is essentially about restoring the citizens' confidence in our decision-making procedures. citizens must have the blind confidence that when we take a decision, it is in the public interest and not in the private interest of private individuals, private organisations or industry. here is a summary of the recommendations. it is true what mr lins, my co-rapporteur, said: we recognize that the current decision-making mechanism is one of the most rigorous in the world. however, improvements are possible, both in the regulation and in its implementation. the basic principles are, firstly, the application of the precautionary principle and, secondly, ensuring that the decision-making process on pesticides is transparent, independent and objective. only then will we be able to regain the confidence of the european citizen. as regards glyphosate, our committee says that the controversy over it has not yet been resolved. we have not been able to resolve this in our committee, but we are therefore asking the commission's scientific advisory mechanism - which has even offered to do so - to undertake a systematic evaluation of all available studies on the carcinogenic or possibly carcinogenic properties of glyphosate, so that it can be ascertained whether a review of the current authorisation is necessary. transparency and independence. transparency: we want to require the applicant to put all studies in the public record. we want to guarantee access to that register for all citizens, so that they can consult all the supporting data, all the studies and so that independent scientists can also check whether the correct procedures have been followed and the correct conclusions have been drawn. we also ask the member states and the commission to ensure full transparency in the workings of the standing committee, where member states take decisions. we want a transparent overview of the minutes. we want full disclosure of voting behavior. as regards independence, we in the committee want the applicant to no longer be able to designate the rapporteur member state itself: only the commission can do that. and only those member states which have sufficient technical scientific expertise, the resources and also internal procedures to avoid conflicts of interest may be designated as rapporteur member states. we also want to ensure that the resources of the efsa and echa are sufficient to guarantee their full independence. we also ask horizon to fund programmes for independent research into both the impact on human and animal health and the impact on the environment. finally, there is the problem of possible plagiarism. the fact that the rapporteur member state takes over evaluations, copy-pasting them from the applicant and including them in the final report without citing the source. we want to minimize the transfer of data. and if it does happen, it's done correctly and it's reported as such. our report pays particular attention to the long-term effects, the ecotoxicological effects of pesticides, the impact on vulnerable groups, the use of cocktails, the synergistic effects of the use of pesticides and of several pesticides at the same time, and the cumulative effect. we also want the cut-off criteria of article 5 to be applied at all times. we have found that this is not always the case. we also want to bring the whole discussion of endocrine disruptors into this. we also want glyphosate to be banned from use in parks, public gardens, sports and recreation grounds, school grounds, playgrounds and areas near care facilities. finally , article 53 is the one that provides for exceptions. this article is now used far too often as a permanent exception. the exception must be the exception, nothing more and nothing less. finally, to mrs hazekamp of the gue/ngl group: we must apply the three v's in the field of animal testing. we need to reduce it, we need to avoid it, and we need to replace it.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, our pest committee has worked for nine months, held eight meetings and carried out three missions abroad. it had a clear mandate: to examine the shortcomings of our pesticide authorisation system and, above all, to draw up a roadmap for the future. all of this was said to be in the wake of the controversial renewal of glyphosate at the end of 2017. i would like to thank our two rapporteurs, mr staes and mr lins, for the excellent cooperation they have provided, and also - i should like to say this - mr eric andrieu, an expert, demanding and empathetic president. so this is an ambitious report that we are debating tonight. the recommendations we are making are strong and urgent. the report, which has been widely supported in the pest committee, takes the health of europeans as a priority. we have carefully analysed the current shortcomings in the pesticide authorisation system and propose a list of recommendations that are immediately applicable to the commission, the member states and efsa. our first demand is to the european food safety authority: experts working with industry must be excluded from the pesticide authorisation process. equally important for transparency is the creation of a public register where the data and studies used by the industry will be recorded. we also call for europe to increase the budget of efsa to strengthen its independence and efficiency. i would like to remind you of a figure that is often forgotten: today, the budget of efsa is four times smaller than that of the european medicines agency. food security deserves better than that. as regards co-formulants, which, as we know, have been at the heart of the dispute over glyphosate between the international agency for research on cancer (iarc) and the european agencies, my question, commissioner, is simple: when do you intend to apply the law and publish the first negative list, i.e. the list of prohibited co-formulants? however, it is now known that the addition of adjuvants and synergists is at the heart of the toxicity of products. europe must also promote a zero pesticide policy in public spaces, nurseries, schools, hospitals, playgrounds and finally extend the ban to other bee-killing neonicotinoids in addition to those already banned. i'm thinking of the thiacloprid. in conclusion, europe has no choice but to follow the recommendations of the pest committee. protecting our environment is a citizen's priority. it must be at the heart of our decisions.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 2052/88 on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products (com (97) 0406 - c4-0173/97). this is also the main conclusion of the special committee on the union's authorisation procedure for pesticides, and my delegation fully supports those conclusions. the approval of plant protection products should be based on and respect independent and objective science and be carried out in accordance with a transparent, objective and high-performance procedure. we do have one of the strictest systems in the world, but improvements are possible and necessary to ensure public confidence in science-based policies and to ensure the protection of public health and the environment. two critical considerations to conclude. the question of whether glyphosate is carcinogenic or not can only be answered by further research, not by a political committee. finally, i hope that this report can stimulate a wider debate on more sustainable agriculture. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
the commission has already taken action on this. mr demesmaeker, i have just heard you say that you fully support the recommendations of the committee. you are in the same group as mrs mcintyre in the european parliament. can you explain why you support the findings of this committee and share its conclusions, given that mrs mcintyre is against them? can you clarify?
"blue card" is the answer. the answer is very simple: i am speaking and voting here on behalf of my delegation, which is a four-member n-va delegation. and i'm carrying out my party's program.
madam president, commissioner, in the light of the various hearings held at the pest committee meetings, it is a fact that the european procedure for the authorisation of pesticides must be improved. i have been fighting for many months to bring to light all the shortcomings in this area, and i am pleased that the original text of the two co-rapporteurs, who did a very good job and whom i congratulate, has been improved on several points. i'll give you six quick ones. one, better application of the precautionary principle. second, a strengthening of independence throughout the authorisation process. third, the need for the commission and the member states to allocate sufficient resources to strengthen independence. fourth, the need to find alternative products by encouraging innovation. five, the establishment of a post-market surveillance mechanism and, six, the addition of criteria of independence and transparency and absence of conflict of interest in the definition of the rapporteur member state. i therefore welcome the conclusions of this special committee and hope that they will be fully reflected in the vote.
- i'm the reporter. mr president, i would first of all like to thank mr lins, the shadow rapporteurs and mr andrieu for the way in which we have worked together constructively. i think that this report shows that parliament is listening to its citizens. i think we have shown in times of polarization, in times of populism, that even though we sometimes have different views on food production and agriculture, we can still come up with a blueprint for an objective, transparent, independent authorization procedure for pesticides and crop protection products. that, ladies and gentlemen, is what citizens are asking for. not to politicians who shout, who shout, but to politicians who try to work together constructively and who try to bridge differences in vision. the importance of human and animal health, the importance of respect for our ecosystems, and therefore the general interest, are always at the centre of this. not the commercial, private interests of a few.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the authorisation procedures for plant protection products. the recommendations in the report are balanced in my view and can significantly improve the authorization procedure for plant protection products. however, we must also bear in mind that the european authorization procedure for plant protection products is already one of the best in the world. the recommendations include a public register of all studies and data in an accessible format, public access to all scientific studies published before the european food safety authority has issued its opinion, increased financial resources for the european food safety authority, the commission's designation of the rapporteur member state to assess an active substance, the inclusion of long-term toxicity in the data needed for the risk assessment of plant protection products, the strengthening of post-marketing assessment and the launch by the commission of an epidemiological investigation into the effects of pesticides on human health. if the european commission follows all these recommendations, i believe this will both increase consumer confidence in the use of plant protection products and significantly reduce the health risks for the farmer.
on behalf of the group of the european right mr president, this dossier is about a very difficult balance between, on the one hand, opening up the european rental market to trucks with more efficient operations as a positive effect, and, on the other hand, properly regulating that same rental market for reasons of possible unfair competition, fiscal autonomy and safety. it is in favour of the rapporteur that she has found this balance to be good. the necessary conditions are attached to the further liberalisation of the internal market. in doing so, member states retain the possibility of regulating their own industries without disturbing the european market. finally, i would urge that this proposal be properly implemented when it is finally agreed with the council. good enforcement is crucial here. ladies and gentlemen, our group will support this text in the vote tomorrow.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0243 - c4-0414/97-97/0161 (cns)) the rapporteur has rightly included other modes of transport than cars in this own-initiative report, such as inland waterways, drones and subways. autonomous vehicles of all kinds will also open up new possibilities for intermodal transport. i would like to take a moment to reflect on the flows of information that will arise from the use of autonomous vehicles. the scope of the applications that may arise from vehicles being able to communicate with each other and with their environment is not yet clear. the concern for respecting privacy is an important point. but if we want everyone to get the most out of digitalisation, we also need partial access to real-time in-vehicle data for use by third parties for other applications. this is also the way to create additional innovation.
on behalf of the group of the european right president. - we are repeating ourselves. in this context i would refer to the speech made by mr verhofstadt, the leader of the european liberal group, in the chamber last summer on the need for reform of european asylum and migration rules. he then blamed the council for being slow in tackling the migration crisis. verhofstadt argued in one breath for european centres in african transit countries, where any migrant could apply for asylum, read: a one-way ticket to the eu. this is really asking for trouble, because there are about 60 million people on the run worldwide. europe cannot take them all. so we need to limit the number of migrants we take in. but as long as the european parliament, like mr verhofstadt, continues to approach migration issues from the perspective of open borders, many european proposals for migration reform will be sheltered by the council. parliament dictates idiotic and unworkable proposals, in the style of air bridges between africa and europe, and then is surprised at the refusal of the member states. this legislation is coming to an end and many asylum cases are still stuck. it's time for realism. the unrestrained influx must be restricted. we must therefore focus on the surveillance of the external borders and give more support to the member states in this respect.
for the greens/efa group madam president, at night, everything is black. i was very scared, but i had to get in the boat. i've seen a lot of people, rebels, shooting at anyone. you could hear people screaming, yelling, crying. i thought i was dead. this, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the many testimonies of a migrant who survived the mediterranean. every day, on the outskirts of our europe, humans die simply for wanting to leave hell. nearly 18,000 since 2014. if europe cannot take in all the suffering in the world, it must take its fair share in welcoming those who call for help, especially as it bears its share of responsibility for the causes of migration. instead, the european union, which likes to claim to be the world champion of human rights, does not hesitate to make itself the best ally of oppressive regimes, such as sudan or eritrea, or of failed states, such as libya. today, it is with european money that we finance armed gangs in these countries, sometimes renamed coastguards or security auxiliaries - a deception that will not fool many people. the aim is clear: to prevent any asylum application from being lodged in europe at any cost. this is the objective clearly announced by the austrian minister of the interior last july. and make no mistake: if the latter is a member of the extreme right, his positions have been de facto endorsed by heads of state and government, both from the right and the left. from top to top, they measure, as you have done, madam minister, the success of asylum and migration policy by the mere fact of the decline in arrivals. fortress europe is an insult to the values of the european union. this repressive policy makes us accomplices of regimes and, dare i say it, of murderous regimes that trample on human dignity, at the risk of becoming like them. but is it not already too late when, from belgium to italy, from hungary to france, some governments are criminalising migrants and those who help them? more than a year ago, rejecting the principle of 'every man for himself' and simplistic formulae, this parliament adopted by an overwhelming majority, under the leadership of mrs wikström, who has just spoken, a position radically opposed to both simplism and the populist leap forward. we have had the courage to overcome national egos by abandoning the foolish dublin rule. europe can do more, it must do more. it can do more and better, and if it does not want to give up its values, more and better is required of it.
madam president, commissioner, 2019 is going to be a very important year. we must show the european citizens that we can tackle problems and that is why we are calling for a very effective asylum policy from the european parliament. mrs stevens, no, the liberal group and guy verhofstadt are not in favour of an open border policy. we are one european asylum application away from shopping around between member states. we are in favour of solidarity and responsibility between member states. we are in favour of speeding up the process of settlement, of protecting children in migration. we are in favour of tackling the problem of human trafficking, of reforming dublin. we all know that member states cannot do this alone. only the european union can deal with asylum and migration, and those who claim otherwise with false figures and frighten people should be ashamed. i call on the european council and the commission to show political will. the package lighter, just do it now.
in writing. since 2016, the european commission has been publishing progress reports on migration. they must demonstrate the results of the policy. arrivals are down 90%. the budgets for migration are increasing year by year. only the resettlement figures are disappointing, but no government has ever been over or for that. they're all fine. except that our lives are not essentially about numbers, or at least not essentially. it doesn't give us a warm home to return to. we don't feel any safer on the streets. at the end of the ride, our job is as well protected as it can be. today's migration crisis is not a crisis of numbers, but a crisis of trust. when refugees came knocking on the doors of italy, greece, germany and sweden, people did not feel that it was better to be in the eu than outside it - quite the opposite. no progress report, return agreement or disembarkation center that will solve that. if it were up to the european parliament, the commissioner would have come here today to say that it will never happen again. that a plan is put in place to ensure that a village of 1,000 people will never again have to take in 400 unaccompanied children alone, because 26 other member states will be ready. then european values would be as tangible today as the actions of salvini and orbán.
president. - mr president, i would like to welcome you to the romanian presidency. six months is a short period to debate and negotiate. it will therefore be important to get the noses in the same direction, together with the two future presidents. the romanian presidency will certainly make european enlargement a priority. for the first time in many years, the union has reiterated its ambition to enlarge since 2018. if they carry out the necessary reforms, six countries from the western balkans will be allowed to join by 2025. but the eu's best policy is to put things in order internally. i am not referring last but certainly not least to brexit and the growing discontent among european citizens with the open-border migration policy. we do indeed have a priority in tackling illegal immigration. i'm advocating a switch to the australian model to discourage illegal entry. i hope you will agree with this and that it will be reflected in the negotiations on the eu asylum acquis.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to say to prime minister dăncilă that her country is taking over the presidency at a very critical time. we are just before the european elections and i have made a little list: the mobility and transport package; the completion of the banking union; the reform of the broken dublin system; the multiannual financial framework, where we need an agreement, and, last but not least, two article 7 procedures – one against the polish government and one announced by this parliament against orbán. there is a lot on your plate. one thing i hope for you and your government is that during your presidency, there will not be a third case of article 7 – a case against the romanian government – because my impression is that by continuing to ignore the opinions of the venice commission, you are not far from that at the moment, and there are a few legislative files that are under discussion in the romanian parliament. i was in bucharest together with a number of colleagues here. i met mr dragnea, who is the leader of your party and the speaker of the house, and he defended these legislative files and the attitude of your majority by saying, ‘well, the rule of law is a question of subsidiarity’. i have to tell you, there are many things in the european union that are a question of subsidiarity, but that is certainly not true for the rule of law. that is not subsidiarity in the european union. i said exactly the same, that same day, to mr tăriceanu and he promised me that your government and both parties forming your majority will change the proposals and will be fully compliant with the venice commission. moreover, he agreed with me that the venice commission would have a second opinion once the change is made to these proposals. these proposals – on the restoring of the independence of the judiciary, on the repairing of the criminal code, on the repairing of the criminal procedural code and on the changing of ngo law – will be sent back to the venice commission. i have to tell you, very honestly, that since we met each other, with mr bullmann and others in bucharest, not one of these promises has been kept. on the contrary, your government continues to follow the path of bad practices of other governments like orbán and kaczyński. i ask you, is the following true? i read in the press that you have a plan to approve a law to grant amnesty on corruption, so that means putting the big fish out of reach of the courts. so let me tell you one simple thing in this debate: if this were to be confirmed, my group in any case, and the whole liberal family, will not go into elections with such partners. we want to side with all new clean and democratic forces who want to stop corruption, clean up the country and are also anti abuse of power by the old secret service. that is not criticism of your country or of romanian citizens. it is criticism of a number of practices of your political majority for the moment, and i think i can be critical of these practices as i am an honorary citizen of the romanian republic. i was bestowed that honour in 2001 after i defended in the european council – and nobody asked me to do so – the interests of romania in the treaty of nice. the other member states had the beautiful idea of lowering the voting rights of romania because it is only an eastern european country, which which was pure discrimination towards them. finally, we succeeded in obtaining the right thing for the romanian republic, the same voting rights as the other member states. i’m also in favour, mr president, of romania’s entry into the euro and into schengen. don’t see that as criticism. pick up this fight. be the real prime minister of your country. clean up the mess of the past and do that without compromising with the corrupt forces of the present.
president. - mr draghi, ten years ago the financial crisis began. the crisis in europe was out of control because of too much debt and too cheap money. and what is the ecb's response? more debt and more cheaper money. as we read in this report, this has major implications. insurance and pensions are in trouble. real estate prices are rising at a rapid rate, and homes are becoming unaffordable to the common man. we're seeing huge increases in debt among companies, families and especially governments. structural reforms in the countries that need them most are being delayed. and on top of that, another obvious effect of your policy: the interest rates are so low, our savings are evaporating. it's not working anymore. you are blaming the ordinary man on the street, the people of my age who have nothing to do with the crisis that began in 2008, for the mismanagement of the banks and the governments. we are now at the end of your mandate. for years you have stood out as the fireman who put out the fires of the crisis. but i fear that this policy will prove to be the policy of a pyromaniac, the policy that will cause the next financial crisis.
president, mr draghi, colleagues, this afternoon we celebrated the 20th anniversary of the euro, but not so long ago the survival of our single currency was really hanging in the balance. in the end, it was the european central bank, to the regret of many critics in this chamber, that led our euro through the crisis. why was it the european central bank that had to pull the chestnuts out of the fire? before a single currency is created, political and economic integration is normally first undertaken. the euro has gone the exact opposite way. we threw the newborn euro into the pool and it will learn to swim by itself, but that did not happen, or at least not at all, and that makes our monetary union extremely vulnerable even today, because the economic differences between member states are still very great. such differences are difficult to sustain unless adequate solidarity mechanisms are built in, but this is not the case yet. so why did the ecb have to save the euro? because there has been a lack of political courage to complete our monetary union. today, the economic outlook is again somewhat bleak. we have a choice: we must not forget that the european parliament has always been a very important institution in the european community. for me, the choice is clear: i would therefore like to invite those colleagues who have spoken out against the ecb this afternoon and who have gone beyond the bounds of its criticism to join us in creating a monetary union with sufficient solidarity mechanisms, including in the field of fiscal policy and a deep banking and capital markets union.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, it is a pleasure to participate in this discussion. it is also a pleasure to see so many colleagues here who have wanted to implement efsi in their own constituencies by presenting what efsi can do, what advisory services can do and raise awareness, and this is the reason why efsi has already been a success story. it is a good opportunity to continue this success story and that is why we have initiated the investeu proposal. i want to thank this house for its continued backing throughout this mandate to the commission's initiatives in support of investment. when this commission took office in late 2014, investment had fallen by 15% in the eu as a result of the financial and economic crisis. we had to take comprehensive action to tackle this investment gap and to reinstate confidence both in the union economy and also in the capacity of eu institutions to deliver for citizens. the investment plan for europe was the commission's answer to the situation and you were vigilant allies in setting up the european fund for strategic investments to this end. today, the investment conditions in europe have improved. however, there is still a sizeable investment gap in europe, especially when it comes to social infrastructure and investments in the environmental and digital transition. in the context of this proposal, for the next multiannual financial framework, the commission has therefore put forward a single multi-policy investment support instrument – the investeu fund. the investeu fund will combine 13 centrally managed financial instruments and the efsi into a single eur 38 billion budgetary currency. it will have a strong policy focus and, while the eib will remain the commission’s main strategic partner in this implementation, it will also be open to other partners such as the european bank for reconstruction and development, the council of europe development bank or national promotional banks and institutions. the commission welcomes the european parliament’s report on investeu. the report touches on many important items but broadly endorses the commission's proposal. regarding the proposed changes, the commission is open to considering those related to covenants, in particular those that increase the independence of the investment committee and safeguard the commission's policy steer. as regards the concerns expressed regarding the role of the eib under investeu compared with efsi, let me inform you that the commission and the eib have jointly proposed a partnership that would enshrine the eib group’s 75% share of the eu currently in the regulation. the partnership would also put the eib’s banking expertise to the best use for the design of a rationalisation of financial risk monitoring and reporting of the investeu programme. this partnership proposal is, of course, subject to the co-legislators’ consideration. some of your amendments are linked to the broader mff discussion, such as the overall amount of currency and the climate targets. for the time being, we will take note of them and see them as a testimony of the parliament's commitment to a strong union with a strong budget and to the union’s cop 21 goals. on behalf of the commission, let me express our appreciation for the tremendous effort the rapporteurs, the shadows and also associated committees have done to reach a position within a very ambitious timeline with a view to an agreement before the european elections. i very much hope that these tireless efforts will also be reflected in tomorrow's world. it is now up to the council to step up their efforts in order to reach a partial general approach and allow for the beginning of trilogues.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. mr president, the environment committee has indeed given its full support. compared to the current, ongoing efsi programme, the share of investment in renewable energy and energy savings is already very ambitious. we are now at 19%, but we naturally want to make bigger and faster progress with the new investeu programme, especially in the field of renewable energy. it is good that climate and sustainability are a common thread running through the whole investment programme. we are convinced, as is the environment committee, that a strong industry and investment in a strong industry in europe with many jobs can go hand in hand with sustainable and low-carbon production. the commissioner said that it is therefore good to bring together all the investment instruments to achieve this. in short, as mr kelly has already said: investeu is the flagship, it is the most important instrument we have for europe's leadership, especially for the energy of the future which must be sustainable, which must be affordable and which we must not import, but which we must generate ourselves.
mr president, this is the first legislative dossier i have negotiated for the ecr and for my party, the n-va, and i was satisfied. the commission often makes proposals which are questionable. but this is a sensible reform. it brings together all existing eu investment programmes into one streamlined programme. the commission's original proposal was not entirely correct. governance was too complex and the eib's expertise was underused. i am glad that we have been able to improve this text considerably. we have emphasized the strengthening of the role of the national investment banks. this will enable our flemish holding company, pnv, to take full responsibility for the implementation of the investments. i thank the rapporteurs for their work and look forward to the negotiations with the council.
i am very pleased to be able to speak here as a member of the committee on agriculture and rural development and as a belgian just before the end of the debate. it goes without saying that i am in favour of free trade and that we should further develop good relations with our latin american partners, as i believe the european commission is doing. however, we also expect the same ambitions from our partners in this case. the surprise in belgium is therefore great to see that colombia has recently taken anti-dumping measures against frozen french fries. it could be said that the file is of only marginal importance in the wider context. indeed, the measures are limited in time and the charges are relatively low. it would also be laughable if the belgians were to talk about their fries again. but we need to talk about principles here. firstly, the method is very questionable and therefore all the more destructive for our processors and our farmers, who must constantly adapt their processes. secondly, this is a dossier in which europe can and above all must show that it is fighting for its people. not just the big ones, but the little ones, too. in any case where a european farmer or family businessman is treated unfairly, it is our duty to protect them. i therefore ask you, as the commissioner responsible, to take this matter to the wto without delay.
i'm the reporter. mr president, commissioner, the european globalisation adjustment fund, set up in 2006, is a solidarity fund it is important to note this which provides assistance to workers who are victims of corporate restructuring linked to the opening of the economy to globalisation. for more than ten years, the fund has been able to support more than 150 000 workers in more than 150 cases of company restructuring, and in most member states. in addition, there are 4 000 neets, i.e. young people who are not trained and who are unemployed, who have also benefited from the european globalisation adjustment fund. despite an initial budget of €500 million per year, its use has remained low, not because its action is irrelevant, but because its organisation is complex. the commission's own initiative proposal was welcomed by the european parliament. it has been slightly amended in the margins, but in general there was a broad consensus to be able to work on this proposal from you. the threshold for the number of workers affected was too high and we worked on reducing it. you proposed a threshold of eligibility; we propose to set it at 200 workers, not 200 workers in one company but 200 workers affected in several companies. moreover, globalisation is not the only factor adjusting our economy. technological changes, energy transitions and ecological transitions, which are also important in the context of business restructuring, must also be taken into account. co-financing must also be a determining factor, or the multisectoral or multiregional approach. all these amendments are aimed at improving the effectiveness of the fund currently called the european globalisation adjustment fund, but which we propose to call the transition fund. i would like to add one dimension which could not be taken into account in the context of the fund, but for which i will table an amendment in the plenary tomorrow. because if it is important to help workers in the context of restructuring, i would even say that it is paramount, because if globalisation makes winners, it also makes losers and european solidarity is necessary, it seems to me also useful, in the context of a major restructuring, in a region of europe weakened, for example, by high unemployment rates or low employment rates, or even in regions affected by several successive restructurings, it also seems to me important to help local economic actors cope with traumas such as major corporate restructurings, to reposition and re-mobilize the strengths, strategies and intelligence of a territory. i often give the example of the caterpillar company in belgium, in charleroi, which has indeed set up retraining units to support workers, to give them the opportunity to find a job, but which has also set up a unit - the catch unit - which has been added to the retraining unit. bringing together universities, businesses, local economic actors, it has enabled the reconversion and re-mobilization of forces after a trauma such as this one. this has improved the employment rate of workers and the wealth of the territory. i shall therefore be proposing this amendment tomorrow because it is true that it has sometimes been difficult to convince my colleagues to go along with it. it is an amendment which should help us to take territorial development into account. this territorial development in europe is extremely important. there are rich areas in europe, and there are neglected areas, and we cannot leave them alone in their despair. i therefore think it is important that i can table this amendment and support it. i hope that i shall have the support of the various groups for this amendment.
the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the gulf. at least, that is the case if the negotiations continue to go well, if the vote in the european parliament tomorrow goes well. then we will talk about the european transition fund from 2020-2021: a name that i think covers the flag much better. the fund was initially intended to provide support to people who lose their jobs as a result of structural changes due to globalisation or the financial and economic crisis. in my country, i think everyone knows the example of ford genk or, more recently, caterpillar, as our rapporteur has already mentioned. after a decade, we must admit that the fund was in need of a thorough review. i would like to expressly congratulate the commissioner on the good proposal. the budget allocated was by no means exhausted and the instrument actually partially missed its purpose. one of the problems was clearly the scope: that was way too scary. so we're expanding the scope with automation and digitization. in addition, in the past, a redundancy notice had to contain at least 500 redundancies. in certain areas, often less populated, this threshold was still found to be much too high. it is precisely in these regions that additional training, additional reorientation is most needed. so the accessibility had to really go up. that is why i am glad that we as a parliament have managed to reduce it to 200. but we also want to reduce the administrative burden considerably. the only way to know whether you are eligible is to count redundancies in a particular area and sector. that makes sense . a dismissed worker wants a new job as soon as possible. it does not require a detailed analysis of job losses. last but not least, the european transit fund will take into account the impact of brexit. in my region alone, 28 000 jobs are at stake in the event of no deal. that is a transition where we could use all the european help.
i'm the reporter. mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the commission for taking this initiative. without the commission's initiative, it would have been difficult for us to work on improving the fund, so i thank the commission. i also thank all the groups and rapporteurs who have worked with me on this new legislation. i shall ask them again to make a further effort in the vote tomorrow. when we are working on the support of workers, it is of course important to train workers, but if there is no job creation for these workers, we are in difficulty with regard to their reintegration into the work environment. i therefore think it is important to vote tomorrow on the amendment i am proposing to obtain this compensation. we must move forward on two legs: trained workers on the one hand and an offer from companies on the other, which allows them to be integrated into the labour market. this is the direction my amendment is taking and i hope it will be supported by all the groups that supported the european transition fund.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i have just been following with great interest the vote in the british house of commons and i have to say that the deal that was negotiated has been rejected by a large majority. brexit also means the end of cross-border cooperation. interreg is actually the opposite. as a resident of a border region in the east of belgium, i speak from personal experience when i say: this interreg programme has been running for many years - it was launched in 1990 - and has helped to transform many border regions into community areas. it remains very important. the barriers to entry - including, and above all, those in people's minds - must be broken down step by step. that is why this report is also symbolically important. as the negotiator of this parliament, i have been very active in promoting crossborder cooperation. we had to deal with 946 amendments and we worked out 46 compromise proposals, which resulted in the unanimous adoption of this report by all the parties in the vote in committee. because - and this was the leitmotif of all of them - border regions must not be dead ends, but must reflect a living europe. the interreg programme is thus the opposite of a blockade. so with our report we are sending a clear signal as a parliament. the commission therefore planned to fix the total amount of aid at eur 8.4 billion for the forthcoming period. but we have already provided for an estimated 11.1 billion euros, so the budget will be increased because this is important to us. it is important that crossborder cooperation as currently can be practised without cuts. we are quite clear that there must be no cuts. crossborder cooperation is vital for the survival of europe as a whole, especially in times when there is increasing talk of strengthening internal borders. the people at the borders - many of them border crossers - simply do not understand why there are still barriers at the borders. these are the people who first notice what works and what does not in europe. interreg projects are in many cases also pilot projects for a stronger integration of our regions. they provide solutions to very specific problems between different regions and border regions. this is the kind of solution that europe really needs. the simple promotion of practical crossborder projects was also important to us when we worked on the draft law. we were concerned that more money was being provided. it was important to us that the project promoters did not have to change their structures on the ground. these have worked well all these years. why change what works well? we shouldn't do this. quite the opposite. it was also important to us that the so-called micro-projects, the people-to-people projects, such as the cooperation of associations across the border, could be defined as an integral part of the programme and also be implemented more easily. i am glad that we have written a very practical text which has nothing to do with the often-invoked ivory tower in brussels. the proposals were made by the local actors. we have worked very well with the committee of the regions and the economic and social committee. we must reduce the controls and paperwork which are a real obstacle for many associations, companies and organisations. we have to do this now. i think the commission's proposals were also in the right direction. we also defined the criteria in such a way that they prepare for the future. this means that we have defined criteria to deal with problems of sme promotion, security, climate change. all of this leads us to define this interreg programme as a symbol. if the head of an advertising agency had to make a film about europe, he would have to invite all the people from those agencies so that the interreg projects ... (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. – mr president, i have would like to say to the honourable members, and especially the rapporteur, that i have listened very carefully to the debate and i would like to assure you on behalf of the commission that european territorial cooperation will remain an essential component of cohesion policy and of our european policy tout court. the commission takes note of the views of parliament expressed during the discussion and i want to thank you specifically for your support regarding the promotion of interregional innovation investments. the commission is also confident that, based on previous experience, there will be a high demand for these resources. good work has been done so far. today we want to make sure that we can continue in a simpler, more efficient framework and the commission is confident that parliament will be a strong partner in this endeavour. thank you very much for your hard work and i very much hope, and am confident, that under the romanian presidency the council will, for its part, advance also further on our interreg proposal with a view to its adoption in 2019, well in time for the next programing round. i am sure that you all know how important that is also. thank you very much and also for having stayed here for the debate, and i wish you a good night.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i am honoured to be able to take the last two minutes of this parliamentary day. the last two minutes don't stop me from saying thank you. first of all, i would like to thank all the colleagues who took part in this debate. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs who actively participated in the negotiations and in the shadow meetings, so that we could produce such a sensible text. i would like to thank the commission for its active participation in this process and for its support. i would also like to ask that we get the romanian presidency so motivated that it can draw up its general approach at very short notice so that we can enter into trilogue and try to negotiate this text as far as possible before the new parliament has to go further on this text. the aim must be to have this text clear for the new funding period and to have a text for the agencies and all the actors on the ground to prepare for as soon as possible so that the programmes can be implemented very quickly on the ground. in this sense, thank you for your excellent cooperation and i hope that interreg will continue to be of use to us in the future.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, let’s be honest, we had hoped for another outcome, but we have known for a few weeks already that this would be the outcome of the vote, and the fact that the betting offices in britain didn’t take bets on the outcome was already a clear indication of what would happen. i have to tell you, i’m not so surprised, because, since the outcome of the referendum, british politics, in downing street, in westminster, in whitehall, has consistently produced majorities against something or other: against membership of the union, against membership of the single market, against the customs union, against the free movement of people, against the irish backstop … the list is long. in this debate this morning, mr kamall, the question is how to break the deadlock, and i had hoped you would give an indication in that regard. you described the situation in britain, and we can follow it. but how do you break this deadlock? how do you avoid the devastating no-deal scenario? my answer to that – and i hope you are in agreement with me – is that we need urgently a majority in favour of something, in the house of commons and in british politics, a majority in the interest of britain and in the interest of the union too. and i think that can be achieved if, finally, the political parties in britain – and i mean all political parties not just the conservative party – start to put the interest of the country, the interest of britain, above their own narrow party political interests. that is the key. (applause) let me put it differently. that jeremy corbyn wants to become prime minister of his country is legitimate. that theresa may wants to remain prime minister is legitimate. that the snp wants to use the situation to have an independent scotland is legitimate. that the dup wants to keep the unity of the country is legitimate. all these ambitions that everybody has are legitimate. but what is more important is that they should all come out of the trenches now, that they should transcend the binary system in which they are currently locked, a system that has produced antagonism. let’s be honest: brexit started as a catfight inside the conservative party on the back of the european union. that was the start of the whole discussion. but today it is something completely different. it is no longer a catfight inside the conservative party, it is an existential problem for britain, a problem of britain’s future and britain’s souls. so it’s not a catfight anymore. i know it’s not up to me as a humble belgian to lecture the brits on what to do, but i think it’s time now to tell our british friends that, for the sake of britain itself, it’s time for cross-party cooperation in britain, as we have had here in this parliament from day one. it is time to define what the new relationship between the uk and eu must be and to redefine, too, the red lines – that have, in fact, been imposed unilaterally from the beginning by what i will call the ‘hardliners’ in the conservative party. we in the european union, i can tell you honestly, are ready for a deeper future relationship, even deeper than what is envisaged, michel, in the political declaration, and you confirmed that a few minutes ago. and, if there is a cross-party majority in the house of commons to go in the direction of a deeper relationship, we are ready to engage fully in order to obtain that and to make it happen. but there are two small warnings that i want to give. first of all, what we will not let happen, deal or no deal, is that the controversy in british politics is now imported into european politics. while we understand that the uk can have, and needs, more time, i think it would be a bad thing to go with article 50 beyond european election day. that would only prolong uncertainty for businesses and for people. my second warning concerns the interests of our citizens, eu citizens and uk citizens alike. deal or no deal, mr president, we will do everything in our power to safeguard their rights – rights provided for in the withdrawal agreement – and, if necessary, together with our committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, we will engage directly with the house of commons, with the home office select committee, to secure those rights, because no citizens should ever be the victims of party political games such as those we see around brexit today. (applause)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, what we witnessed yesterday was an improbable coalition of members of the british parliament, who, for often opposing reasons, voted massively against something – that something being the withdrawal agreement – taking into account, first, the legal constraints set by the good friday agreement – which, don’t forget, is a peace agreement – second, the red lines set by the british government itself and, third, yes, the preservation of the foundations of the european union and their integrity, is the only withdrawal agreement possible. we in the european parliament stand firmly and staunchly behind that negotiated agreement, as michel barnier presented it. my second point is that i’m encouraged to see that an amendment that was tabled – which basically amounted to creating the possibility for the united kingdom to unilaterally get out of or breach the good friday agreement – was massively rejected. i’m really encouraged to see that, on both sides of the channel, there is determination to preserve the good friday agreement. do not underestimate the potential that any unilateral action in northern ireland could spark violence again and we don’t want this. we have a vast majority against a withdrawal agreement and i understand that there’s a vast majority against a no—deal scenario. but make no mistake about that: a no—deal scenario is what will automatically happen by default if no positive majority can be found for an alternative, an alternative that would probably require the british authorities to reconsider their aspirations for the future relationship. if the house of commons is either unwilling or unable to find such a positive majority, as a democrat, i believe that the only alternative will then be to ask the british people to choose whether they want brexit along the lines negotiated both by the british government and the –(heckling)dear colleagues, my understanding of british traditions is courtesy and fair play. (applause)i’ve seen more than my fair share of interruptions by british meps here. i would basically expect british meps to stand by the values of their own country, and this is why i cherish the membership of the united kingdom in the european union because you can bring a lot to our union. as i said, the only other option would be to go back to the british people to decide between brexit, as negotiated, or to remain in the european union. finally – and i will conclude there – there’s a lot being said in the discussion about the economy and business. i would urge all of us, on both sides of the channel, to keep in mind the three million citizens of the european union in the united kingdom and the two million british citizens on this side of the channel because they are held hostage by this ongoing chaos. this should remind us that democracy and politics are, and must remain, about people’s well—being. (applause)
madam president, i wanted to reply to mr kamall, the leader of the british conservatives in this parliament - but he left - and i also wanted to tell mr farage, who also left - that what they are interested in is to put on a show in the plenary and then leave, they are not interested in the debate - that it is first of all david cameron who is responsible for brexit, since he has taken his people hostage in an attempt to get re-elected. of course, the populists have embraced it. i would like to congratulate michel barnier and his whole team, because he is right to say that this 600-page agreement is the best compromise possible. i'll paraphrase margaret thatcher a little, which didn't happen often in my life, because i had no sympathy for that former prime minister: i think there is no alternative. or rather, if: the only alternative is that we can take advantage of today's chaotic situation by giving time to time, and i think that at the level of the uk, beyond the populists, it is the reasonable people who will triumph, those who think that both our citizens and the economy have an interest in the uk staying. in the end - and this is my conviction - i think there will be no brexit.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i will try to say this in four minutes because i have a catalan colleague and a basque colleague who want to speak and i do not want to be killed afterwards. but, prime minister, there is one underexposed characteristic of spain which you too have demonstrated, namely that it is maybe for the moment the most pro-european country in europe because it has the guts to talk about a federal europe. there are not so many of your colleagues who are come here and have the courage to talk about a federal europe. this is no accident. the reason, i think, is that european history and spanish democracy are interlinked. over the last decades those who have taken responsibility in your foreign affairs departments were all members of this house: íñigo méndez de vigo, ms mendez de vigo, ms palacio, josep borrell, my good friend, who was a former civil servant, and miguel moratinos. last but not least, there is competition in spanish politics to be the most pro-european party between the partido popular, the psoe, and ciudadanos, and i like that. i like to see national political parties in every country in the european union competing among themselves to be the most pro-european. that’s the way forward. but i have to tell you that after – i don’t know – the 15th debate that we have had on the future of the european union, i am a little frustrated because every time there is a prime minister, or a president, who comes here to make a whole list of all the new european policies that we need to have – social policies, tax policies, migration policies, or a european army – and we never tackle the question why doesn’t it happen today? what is the obstacle? why do we always do too little too late compared, for example, with our american friends, who in nine months can tackle the financial crisis, whereas after nine years we still do not have a banking union? (inaudible) after several years of an enormous tragedy in the mediterranean, i want to congratulate you on the way that you dealt with the aquarius refugees, but let’s be honest: that was the consequence of inhumane nationalistic policies by mr salvini, who was the real source and reason in that case, and of the lack of european policies. why do we still not have a european border in ceuta? why do we still not have an agreement on the reform of dublin, for example, after so many years of tragedies in the mediterranean? why do we today not have a european army? why are we still struggling with the reform of the eurozone nine years after the start of the financial crisis? that is, for me, the key question and i hope that in your reply in a few minutesʼ time you will go into it. to my mind the problem is that for the moment we have bad institutions in the european union and bad institutions create bad results. good institutions create good results. the problem – and i want to repeat this again and again and again, and will continue to do so, together with a number of you –is the unanimity rule that exists in our union and especially in the european council: that is the main problem which has to be solved. (applause)that’s the main problem. the imbalance that exists between the european parliament deciding by a majority and the european council that continues to act unanimously. all five of the examples that i have given are blocked in the european council. so my plea to you, now and in the coming years, is to take up this political battle that we need to win, as otherwise all our long lists will be wish lists that will never be realised. mr president, i think that i have for the first time done something which is impossible, namely to keep more or less to my four minutes.
president. - mr sánchez, on 21 december i was still in barcelona. you were there when it happened. i wanted to visit four catalan prisoners who had just ended their hunger strike. it is not for me to judge their political project or their strategy, but what i do not accept is that people have been imprisoned for more than a year now for it and risk severe penalties, accused of rebellion. i can assure you: we have not seen a dangerous rebellion, nor has the judiciary in my country, in germany or in switzerland, because the catalan exiles are free. we do politics through dialogue, not through the courts. mr weber misses the point when he talks about dangerous nationalism. yes, it lives in spain, but not in catalonia. but in the form of a dangerous neo-francoism. i hope, mr sánchez, that you will overcome your political fear of the far right, that you will work towards genuine dialogue and that you will release the political prisoners.
mr president, the european transition fund recognises the need for a solidarity tool for workers affected by conversions, and i welcome this. i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to amendment no 96, which is intended to give the economic sector the opportunity to support economic conversion following a major crisis. it is important to give priority to workers, it is also important to give priority to enterprises if we are to have a concrete response in terms of job creation. that is what i propose in amendment no 96 and i hope that i shall have the support of this house.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank all the colleagues who have contributed to this text, which was unanimously adopted in committee. after yesterday's brexit vote in london, it is reassuring and a good sign of hope that the overwhelming majority in this house is in favour of crossborder cooperation. that is what interreg is for. thank you very much for that. i would also ask the house to refer this report back to the committee so that it can open interinstitutional negotiations in accordance with rule 59 (4).
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, once again this year the european parliament is reporting on the situation of fundamental rights in the union. parliament called once again for action to be taken against unacceptable deviations and unacceptable breaches of the values of the treaties in certain member states. this call is all the more pressing now that the european elections are approaching. the choice has been made, and this is not a new one, between two europe: a democratic and liberal europe, where fundamental and universal values continue to underpin european integration and protect citizens, as has been the case since the end of the war; the european parliament has been a key player in the debate on the future of europe, and has been a key player in the debate on the future of europe. i have just heard it from a colleague a few moments ago. women and politicians must choose their side and take it in front of the voters. in this context, i cannot help but stress that it is now urgent for the leaders of the member states to take a clear position in favour of the establishment of a monitoring mechanism, as has long been called for by sophia in t veld and by the european parliament, which would also involve the council and which must analyse and report annually on the respect for fundamental rights in each country of the union. as long as we do not have this visible evidence of the failings in our member states, this report on fundamental rights will still lack an important tool. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is 'blue card'. i do not find it shocking that a party is banned when it is unquestionably illegal or has behaved in a totally unconstitutional manner. it's as simple as that, mr. gollnisch. i know that the vlaams belang - because it is no longer the vlaams blok today - has extremely close relations with your party, so i do not think that you are really the best person to judge the attitude and the way belgium behaves towards a party that is really recognised as being fascist.
president, despite justified criticism of violence against women, the lgbti community and journalists, the n-va will not vote in favour. however, these issues are important to us, we also take care of people with disabilities and we support, for example, the eu rule of law mechanism. but this report lacks all the nuance. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the situation in the community. family reunification, and thus further migration, is also hailed as a measure to promote integration. the report also expects too much of eu asylum legislation to tackle the migration crisis. but those eu rules do not allow us to have a strict national migration policy. this resolution is a potpourri of very different themes. we prefer to judge each case on its merits, as we have done and will continue to do. i am not going to go into the details of the situation in the united kingdom. how the hell is that possible? shame on you!
mr president, late payments are often a liability for small businesses. in order to grow, to innovate, to recruit, they need their hard-earned money. a late bill often deprives them of oxygen, which is vital for their survival. i therefore urge the commission and the member states to stand up for our small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the backbone of our economy. the loopholes in the legislation that give free rein to defaulters must be closed. two out of three belgian companies accept a longer payment term than they actually feel comfortable with. therefore, at the national level, my party introduced a bill in 2017 to fix the maximum payment term. we must now send a strong signal from europe too, that we must not allow late payments.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. mr president, we think that the european investment bank, the investment bank of all the member states, is doing a good job. major infrastructure projects such as the oosterweel in antwerp can count on a loan from the european investment bank, which makes these projects as easy as possible. we support this report and i should like to turn to the question of the financing of the european investment bank. because, as you know, that is mainly through bond issues on the international capital markets. it is estimated that the cost of this is about 60 billion euros a year. today, however, nearly a third of that is done in dollars. the bank is therefore exposed to possible us sanctions, which could lead to the european investment bank not being able to choose its own investment. the dollar is an instrument of the united states for global geopolitics. europe must be able to chart its own course and that is why we are calling on the european investment bank to gradually reduce its dollar financing.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank him for his work. the committee on budgetary control recommends that the european investment bank should increase its investment in green energy even further, even though it is already 25% above the target of 22.8%. the commission itself has not even reached its own modest budgetary target of 20% on this point. the committee on budgetary control, for example, also wants the european investment bank to invest more in disadvantaged regions: the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european union's policy on the environment. however, the role of the european investment bank is not to modernise the market infrastructure, but rather to invest in the market context within the bank's four core themes: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. the european investment bank must remain above all a bank that co-finances bankable projects and not a politically driven vehicle. for that reason, i will abstain.
the fiscalis programme which we are putting to the vote will make it possible to strengthen and facilitate cooperation between member states in the field of taxation for the period 2021-2027. after the various tax scandals of recent years, it is obviously essential to be able to continue to implement a programme which facilitates the exchange of information between member states in order to better combat tax evasion. the budget for this programme will be mainly devoted to improving the it infrastructure, but also to fiscal cooperation, which requires a communications network enabling national administrations to exchange information in a secure manner. as the commissioner said, as a socialist group we are proud to have been able to help to integrate into this report the introduction of training within the administrations, but also the introduction of greater cooperation between tax administrations in the fight against money laundering. the fight against tax evasion obviously requires an efficient administration that has all the tools at its disposal to establish real tax justice. finally, molly scott cato, please convey to our colleague sven giegold our sincere thanks for his excellent work on this case.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the tax authorities. good cooperation between the european tax authorities is of great importance for the european union as a whole and for flanders. you could call fiscalis a kind of erasmus for tax inspectors. the current programme runs until 2020 and this proposal covers a further period until 2027. we support that. but the commission proposal increased the budget for the next period by 22%, if we include brexit. parliament is now adding another 11%. moreover, the priorities in this text are left-wing and one-sided, and we do not support that one-sided approach. the enormous focus on third world countries, as in this proposal, is unrealistic, and we would have liked to see more attention paid to administrative simplification, rather than all sorts of new reporting and monitoring. we hope that this will be improved in the negotiations with the council.
president. - mr president, every year we see billions of euros of tax revenue going up in smoke because of tax fraud. profits made in one european member state are funneled through not so difficult structures to tax havens. they shall, by means of vat carriages or other structures: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud in the community. and the problem is becoming more urgent. globalisation and digitalisation are blurring our borders. companies can easily set up branches on the other side of the world and sell their products worldwide, but our tax authorities still operate on an island. the income of a local sme is very easy to tax and control because it stays within our national borders. but checking the tax returns of multinational corporations and internet companies is a whole different ball game. cooperation at european level is therefore of the utmost importance. i am convinced that our tax authorities have more than enough information to pull out the bad apples. we must therefore get the different administrations out of their isolation even more and invest in bridges between those national islands. the rapid and efficient exchange of information and data is, in my view, the smartest way to tackle crossborder tax fraud. that's what we can achieve with fiscalis 2020: more investment in tax services leads to less fraud and automatically more revenue. no government that i do not think understands the absolute logic of that.
i do not agree with the reasoning of some of our colleagues here who are trying to put the violation of universal human rights in perspective or to cover up the violation by arguing that there is, or has been, a great deal of progress. look, azerbaijan is becoming the world's biggest purveyor of persecuted bloggers. that's a little enviable export product, but that seems to be the least of president aliyev's concerns. about 150 political opponents and journalists are behind bars. today we call for the release of a young activist. mehman huseynov is a critical writer and his much-discussed social media posts are a mirror for the regime. it offers a picture that is anything but beautiful. because while the people of azerbaijan are struggling with economic decline and poverty, the political elite around president aliyev are partying. the price mehman pays for his journalistic work is very high. he's been locked up on trumped-up charges for almost two years. he's due for release in march. that this is not in the interests of that regime is shown by new charges that could lead to an additional prison sentence of up to seven years. it is important that the eu-azerbaijan relationship be strengthened. but that cannot be done without drawing additional attention to the fundamental importance of human and civil rights, free media, and so on.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the community (com (97) 0406 - c4-0177/97). sudan is dangling as an authoritarian state at the very bottom of that ranking. the country doesn't look like a democracy. there is no functioning, caring government, civil liberties are virtually non-existent. the international community has written countless reports on human rights in the country and little has changed. what does still function are the violent security forces and militias of dictator al-bashir. they are firing live ammunition at civilians who are taking to the streets in response to hunger, economic insecurity and the harshness of the regime in khartoum. recent demonstrations have left dozens dead and hundreds injured. many human rights activists, journalists and opposition members are imprisoned. well-known methods of a regime that is afraid of the streets and a fear that is justified. whether we protest outside or starve inside, we're going to die anyway, it's echoing in the streets. this parliament must take a stand and show its support for the activists, for the civil society which is increasingly mobilizing, for the people of sudan who are suffering under the regime of someone who should be behind bars for human rights violations. building a better society is not what you do with mr al-bashir.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, after the vote yesterday, ms may announced that she will come to brussels and for my part, i have to tell you very honestly that she’s always welcome – certainly here in this european parliament. it would be good if she were to come once to the european parliament as we requested already more than a year ago. but the question today is naturally, for what? for what? to do what? is it to change the red lines that the british government has used from day one? that could be a breakthrough, i think. that could change effectively the outcome of this whole process. or my second point: what will her mandate be? because, for the moment, as i must say to mr fox, i have not seen, and this includes yesterday, a parliament that gives a clear mandate to theresa may. we have seen a vote against a number of things: against the deal; against no deal; against the backstop. but until today, for more than two years the house of commons has not voted one proposal in favour of something, in favour of a relationship between the eu and uk – never! the last two months, i have to tell you, have been very exhausting, and not only on the other side of the channel but also here. endless debates, long lists of amendments, amendments going in all directions, selected by the speaker, and then won and lost with a teeny-tiny majority. i give here the list: the grieve amendment, that was on 4 december. that was a remain amendment – won by 22 votes. the cooper amendment, also a remain amendment. that was on 8 january – won by 7 votes. then another cooper amendment, that was yesterday – lost by 23 votes. then the brady amendment, which was more a leave amendment – won by 16 votes yesterday. and then again a remain amendment, the spellman amendment to take the no deal from the table – won by 8 votes! is that the way to solve a problem of this magnitude? is that the way to do that? is that the way you do that? that is, every day changing your opinion? and in any way creating uncertainty, instability, instead of concluding a real, new relationship between the eu and the uk. i have to tell you that i look at that and i cannot understand how what started as a catfight inside the conservative party is today an existential problem for the whole of britain. take yesterday’s voting for example: the spellman amendment with a majority of eight votes saying the no deal is off the table and then the prime minister comes back five minutes later saying ‘no, no, we just did that as a joke, a no deal is still possible’. i have to tell you that we cannot go any further like that. there is a lack of clarity and a lack of stability and i hope one thing, that at this moment, as we speak, a meeting is happening between the leader of the opposition, mr corbyn, and the prime minister, ms may. i hope that they will decide or that they will discuss content, and that it is not just eating biscuits and drinking tea this afternoon, because it could be the solution to this problem if they start working together on a cross-party approach so that we know what the position of the uk is in the future. (applause)because we don’t know it. putting in fact, country before party. telling us how they see that future relationship between the eu and the uk and not using or abusing brexit, as happens now, to get rid of each other. because that is what’s happening today. if that is the spirit that emerges in downing street this afternoon, then prime minister may can come – has to come – to brussels to tell us what this broad, stable majority cross-party wants as a future relationship and i think there too is the solution for the backstop. because if there is a close relationship – deeper, as michel barnier has indicated – then the backstop will still exist but it will not be necessary to use it. it will be a theoretical insurance that it is, in fact, not necessary to apply. again, we are ready to go in that direction. michel barnier has indicated this. jean-claude juncker has indicated this. it is time the political class in britain is also ready to go in this direction, as fast as possible, because you will be the first to pay the price for this lack of clarity.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i will never understand your insistence on opening negotiations with the trump administration. in 2018, when donald trump decided to impose illegal tariffs on european steel and aluminium, you said, and i quote, "i will never negotiate under threat". yet these tariffs are still a threat to european products. the threat is not lifted and you enter into a negotiating proposal, which you make to the council. while donald trump is questioning the multilateralism we are so committed to at european level, you decide to launch negotiations with the trump administration again. is this not accepting the bilateral logic currently imposed by the united states? on climate, the united states remains climate-sceptic, refusing to commit to cop21. negotiating in this context would be to deny the climate emergency to which we as europeans are also particularly attached. and finally, when we compare the limited offer you are making in the negotiations with the broad and offensive offer made by the us administration, we wonder what the common point will be, the point that you will be able to share with the united states in the negotiations. and so it seems to us that the opening of these negotiations is a tactical mistake, a political mistake, and we hope that the council will not accept the mandate you have proposed to it.
for the ecr group the introduction of the .eu domain name has an objective which i can support 100%: strengthening our european identity online. the domain name, however, is not a great success. .eu is ranked poorly among the most used domain names in the world, and this is clearly not in the european union's interest at world level and our economic weight. so there's still a lot of room for improvement. perhaps this is due to the many rules and bureaucracy surrounding the .eu domain name. the strict management ensures a high standard of cyber security, but i wonder if we are not going too far in the use of the domain name and over-regulating it. the new proposal will provide a little more flexibility as to who can apply for the .eu domain name, but i am concerned about the uk companies after brexit. the .eu internet addresses of uk owners, which represent a large proportion of the total, should not be taken suddenly. that would be a major overreaction. that is why i am calling for more flexibility.
in writing. rules of procedure are important for a parliament. they form the foundation of parliamentary interaction. continuity of procedure creates predictability, which is a good thing because it makes parliamentary work clear and transparent. but a procedure must never become a law of the medes and persians. society is constantly evolving and the same applies a fortiori to the social and political debate. well-informed and capable citizens rightly expect a transparent political process. it presupposes openness both in the office itself and in its implementation. the amendments to the parliamentary rules of procedure, as initially proposed by mr wieland in an internal working party, largely respond to this changed public expectation. a large part of parliament shares this view, which made it very easy for the basic report to be adopted in afco. however, in the run-up to the vote in plenary, the text was amended on crucial points. among other issues, there was a heated debate on the publication of planned meetings with official lobby groups or their representatives, transparency on the use of reimbursement of expenses and the mandatory signing of a code of conduct. i, however, have not had to think. on each of these points i voted for the greatest possible transparency.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, well prime minister, as per jean-claude juncker, my start as prime minister was also in finland. you remember that my first summit was in tampere. i remember two things from tampere in 1999: first of all, the reindeer on the menu for the summit, and secondly that we decided there to have a common european migration and asylum policy. we are still struggling with the member states to have one. i am pleased that in your intervention, you started with santeri alkio who said – and i have a quote from him, it was nils who helped me naturally, as he is from finland – ‘the people’s idea of the league of nations should be urgently taken by europe to build a united states of europe’. whether it was in the 1920s or the 1930s, i don’t know. it was in the 1920s. it is a fantastic project that needs to be built, and certainly in your intervention, and i want to take three points that in my opinion are necessary for that. first of all, on the eurozone and the governance of the eurozone. i agree with you, we don’t need a reform of the eurozone to replace the homework that member states have to do with new instruments. they have to do their homework. that’s not at stake. what is at stake is that a single currency, at world level, needs fiscal capacity; needs, based on the official capacity, euro safe assets to be used at world level in order to have more harmonious growth inside the eurozone and an instrument against what we call ‘asymmetric shocks’. all this cannot be done through the homework of the member states alone. there is something common that needs to be tackled. so i agree with you, but the one doesn’t contradict the other, in my opinion. my second point is on the single market. you said ‘yes, we have the best single market in the world’. i will rectify it a little bit. we could maybe have the best single market in the world when we also have a single market in the markets of the future – digital, energy, capital. i think there is one good solution: create one regulator at european level and, automatically, we shall see the emerging single digital, energy and capital markets. my third point is on defence. i think the biggest waste of money for the moment in the european union is the lack and the non-existence of a real european defence union. we are spending half the amount of the americans on military. we have a budget in europe on military that is three times bigger than the russians’ budget, but we are not capable, i think, to do our defence alone and that’s because we have 28 times duplication and that’s why i hope, also, that the european defence union will be one of the key priorities of the finnish presidency.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, on behalf of the s&d group i would like to ask for the postponement of the zīle report. this is not only a controversial report where groups need some extra time to prepare themselves, but more fundamentally this report is very much connected to a very highly controversial and difficult mobility package that also has been postponed. in order to organise the access of buses and coaches it is extremely important that we make sure that the working conditions of the people working for the buses and coaches, and the truck drivers, are assured and furthermore strengthened in the future. so that’s why we ask for a postponement to a later stage.
mr president, if the conference of presidents decides to put a controversial file at such a late stage to plenary, i think it’s no more than fair for members to be able to organise themselves. so let’s take a vote to postpone the deadline for 24 hours please.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party, president, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteurs, the principle of the allocation of powers, according to which the eu acts within the limits of the powers conferred on it by the member states, is essential for my party. as the reports on eu citizenship and the charter of fundamental rights are ambiguous on this, my delegation will vote against. as regards the implementation of the charter of fundamental rights in the eu's institutional framework, there is also work to be done for our own european parliament. i have already seen from my own experience that sign language interpreters are not treated in the same way as spoken language interpreters. this needs to change. the bresso report contains elements which we support and others which we do not, such as the emphasis on the spitzenkandidat process. in the lamassoure report we welcome the suggestions for the involvement of the länder, such as flanders, in closer cooperation. thank you, sir.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, i think that the reports before us are part of the flight forward that the centralists of the european union, the federalists of the united states of europe, have made as they feel that they are nearing the end not only of this legislature but also the possible end of what i would call the comfortable majority of the epp and the socialists who have built this european union over the last two decades into an ever closer union, the ever-deeper integration of a centralised unitary state. when the eu-critical vote was so strong in the 2012 election result, reassuring language was initially used to pretend that the message had been understood. but since brexit, the radicalism of the past has been adopted here in parliament, with the aim of further deepening integration as quickly as possible. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. and today you're reinforcing it. i could accept your concept of so-called closer cooperation if it were the precursor to flexible european cooperation à la carte, but in your vision of european integration it is simply one part of a fatal whole. this has to stop, colleagues. we reject your reports and will, after the elections, push for a fundamental revision of european cooperation, away from your federalist vision of integration, wherever we as the epp can do so, in the council, the commission and this european parliament. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, for years now, income disparities have been widening in the countries of the union and have pushed too many of our fellow citizens into precariousness, if not poverty. it is unbearable that over the last ten years, the average income of ordinary workers worldwide has increased by only 2% a year on average, while the wealth of billionaires has increased by 13% a year, or six times faster. a system that produces such results will not last long. the protests we are witnessing today in many countries, including my own, are largely the result of these intolerable inequalities. of course, i recognize the right to demonstrate freely and i affirm that it is a fundamental freedom of our political systems. this right, which is enshrined in the constitutions of all our countries, must be guaranteed and protected, especially for the benefit of those who have few other means of making themselves heard. but the right to protest is not the right to sack, or plunder, or break the cop. too often, demonstrations with noble objectives are taken hostage by small groups of excitement, vandals or even looters, who distort their demands and even their legitimacy. the constitutional and legal responsibility of law enforcement is to prevent these groups from harming the safety of people and property. they must of course do so in a proportionate way and their misconduct must be punished. of course, there are unfortunate victims among the protesters, but that does not justify making those who defend the democratic order bloodthirsty executioners. such an operation only serves the cause of the most extreme extremists and we refuse to be associated with it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the sustainable use of pesticides is something that is of particular concern to all of us, both citizens and farmers. the report before us today is important. we are evaluating the 2009 directive and it is very clear that member states need to step up their efforts. progress has been made in training and in the adjustment of spraying equipment. but the action plans lack clearly measurable and concrete objectives. in addition, it seems to me that we need to invest more in integrated crop protection techniques. we have to put that first. last but not least, as mr huitema said, we must dare to look within ourselves. if we want to convince farmers, we need to move more towards precision farming and make sure that the resources are there. i think we should also focus on plant breeding and improving the quality of the soil. we need to create openings in that area. and so we need to provide more resources. if we want to improve our environment, ladies and gentlemen, we must support farmers. they produce our healthy food. thank you, sir.
- i'm the reporter. thank you, mr president. a very good morning to all of you, colleagues, commissioner. if there is one area in which europe can prove its added value, it is in the field of health care. it is often more obvious and cheaper for patients, especially those in border regions, to seek medical care where it is closest, namely in a hospital just across the border. this applies a fortiori to patients with a chronic or rare disease who can be helped more efficiently in another european country because they need specific treatment. today, too often, patients face all sorts of annoying obstacles when they choose to receive treatment abroad. often, administrative burdens get in the way. it is unclear when they can be reimbursed for the treatment they receive abroad, and it is unclear what costs they have to pay. it's 2019 and it's high time that we stop tolerating these unacceptable obstacles and barriers for patients. the cross-border healthcare directive we're talking about here dates back to 2011. that was over eight years ago. this directive was certainly a step in the right direction, but implementation on the ground is lagging behind. we can't accept that. the report we have written on implementation contains a number of concrete proposals. we have had very good discussions with the commission services on how to proceed with this and how to improve implementation. the first order of business is: information to the patients. most patients do not know what their rights are and do not know where to get information, despite the fact that each country has at least one national information point. we therefore propose that a one-stop shop be set up in each country where patients can obtain all the information they need on health care, sickness insurance, reimbursement, administrative arrangements and so on. patients have the right to clear and unambiguous information, including for cross-border care. today, they face a complex administrative complexity. and you can do better than that. the commission is therefore expressly requested to continue monitoring the application of this directive every year and to maintain close contact with the european parliament and the national authorities. second point: for patients with a rare or chronic disease, the best and most specialised care may be abroad. this is why we want to strengthen the existing european reference networks (erns). and we want to combine european efforts and the efforts of all member states to create specialised centres in existing health institutions where expertise on rare diseases is brought together so that patients with a rare disease can go there. and then, digitization of healthcare is a great tool to provide even better care for patients. the initiative launched by the european commission last week to further strengthen the digital network of cross-border healthcare is a good one. we support that. we hope to roll it out as soon as possible. one final point. we would very much like to see a robust and independent health programme included in the multiannual programme, which is not the case today. our citizens deserve the best health care, and sometimes it can be found on the other side of the border, with our neighbors. thank you, sir.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think we are discussing a very important point here today, namely crossborder health care. i would therefore like to thank my colleague from limburg, ivo belet, for his report. we all know that many citizens do not know their rights. a 2015 eurobarometer survey shows that 20% of european citizens are not actually aware of their rights. that is why i think we need to educate citizens about their rights to find the best health care. because when you're sick, you only have one thing to worry about: i'm going to get better. europe must help its citizens in this respect. and we all know that the administrative burden and the regulatory burden are far too great if we use health care elsewhere. so i would say: the commission is therefore proposing that the council of ministers should act on this recommendation and provide for a 'one stop shop' as it is called here, one information point per member state, so that citizens are given the right information quickly and correctly. you're gonna have to work on it. make europe more efficient and effective.
i have to say, madam president, i live in the border area of eastern belgium. that is to say, many people from belgium go to germany to see a doctor quite naturally and quite simply, or that was the case and is no longer the case. there was an agreement in this border area called izom. there the belgian patient could go to the german specialist without any formalities. that was abolished in belgium. what i'm trying to say is that the patient doesn't really care about the formalities that have to be done between health insurance companies. the patient wants to be cured, he wants to have the best doctor there is, for himself, best in his own language. that is precisely what we must achieve. we talk too much between countries about what cannot be done, but we need to talk much more about what can be done. these patient zones, like the ones we had, are a wonderful example of how to do it. i ask the european commission to encourage this and, if it does not work, to commit itself. because the patient wants to get well, and you can if you organize it that way.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am happy to have listened to the debate and i thank all the speakers for their valuable contributions. let me repeat once again: now is a good time for all of us to have an awareness-raising campaign in the european union because the european parliament elections are ahead of us. please, honourable members, keep healthcare high on the agenda and please campaign on these issues, and i say that especially to those who are ready now to go and present their programmes to the public. of course, i see a confrontation in terms of member states’ understanding of what we call subsidiarity, and that is why we see such a low level of awareness. mainly, if you ask member states about healthcare and medical services, they will argue that these fall within national competences: ‘national competence’ has become a mantra. if you look just at health technology assessment, you will see, once again, resistance to doing more at european union level in that area. why? because of a wrong understanding about subsidiarity. if you cannot offer people the chance of achieving the best possible healthcare, or a cure if they have some rare disease, then surely we should allow them to go across borders and achieve it in another country. how can we overcome the silo mentality? that is a question for all of us. it’s not just a matter of having templates and national contact points. it’s also about possibilities of changing the narrative, about understanding and about discussions with governments. i very much appreciate the fact that we share common goals when it comes to cross-border healthcare for european union citizens. this convergence is crucial as we move forward and eliminate unjustified barriers to healthcare. the draft report outlines concrete measures around some of the directive’s major pillars in the areas of charging, reimbursement, access to and exchange of health data, administrative procedures and provision of information. there are many, many issues. let me assure you that the commission will carefully consider how to take this recommendation forward once the report has been adopted. i would like to stress once again that the commission will take deliberate action wherever the spirit and letter of the directive is not upheld, and we strongly urge member states to put in place measures to prevent discrimination among patients. in closing, i want to reiterate my thanks to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) for its work on this issue. in particular, i want to recognise the contribution made by the environment committee chair, ms vălean, the vice-chairs, mr jávor and ms sârbu, and the rapporteur, mr belet, as well as the shadow rapporteurs. you have made an important contribution to this debate and that can have a practical impact on the accessibility and sustainability of our healthcare systems.
rapporteur. – madam president, thank you very much for this debate. on the final remark that has been made by mr marias, i would like to add that there are proposals to take vaccination on board of this directive and that the ecr group of mr marias is objecting to that, so it would be useful to mention that. dear colleagues, commissioner, thank you for the input. i am convinced that we have broad support for this report for the implementation of the directive in a good way. commissioner, i appreciate very much that you have referred to the fact that you will raise your efforts with regard to the simplification of the procedures on the one hand and secondly, also to strengthen the ncps; the contact points, which is also crucial in this regard. we will support your efforts and i hope that everyone has heard your message, that indeed it is the role of the meps in the up-coming months to put it and keep it high on the agenda, not just in the election campaign, but also afterwards. it is indeed not our intention to stimulate patients to go abroad. on the contrary, in many cases, certainly in border regions, but also for patients with rare diseases or chronic diseases, a treatment in another country is often more effective and even cheaper and therefore the interests of our fellow citizens have to be our top priority. we have to make sure that europe is at its best in serving the interests and the well-being of european citizens and these efforts — as has been said also by peter liese and others — do not cost money; it is about the correct implementation. so, let us use this instrument, this directive to prove that the extra value of european cooperation is really to be found here in this regard. finally, let me conclude madam president, and allow me to send my sincere gratitude to maria grapini as a co-rapporteur for the internal market and consumer protection committee, and also special thanks to the shadow colleagues for their excellent input.
madam president, commissioner, many colleagues have already said it. for eight years, the conflict in syria has been going on. eight years! what began as peaceful protests for democratic values, turned into one of the bloodiest wars in the world. we all remember the images of the deadly gas attacks and the slaughter of people all over the country. more than 465,000 syrians were killed, one million were injured and some 12 million people - half the population - were forced to flee. meanwhile, the chaos is rife in syria. the syrian government is still fighting the rebels today. israel will then turn its weapons against the iranian-backed forces. and the u.s. is trying to defeat isis. in addition, there are kurds in the north who are also being hit by turkish bombings. and at that moment, president trump announces that he's going to withdraw his troops because isis has been defeated, although experts are reporting otherwise. commissioner, i sometimes get the impression that the european union is going through what we are going through today in the hemisphere. we are talking about one of the bloodiest conflicts in the world today, with people being chemically bombed and children living in camps for eight years without hope. and yet nothing is happening. there's hardly a cat in here. you hardly see anyone when we're debating such a conflict! i can only hope that the commission will take action. i really hope there are sanctions. i really hope we're going to get to the root of this problem. you know, commissioner, we were both born in a country of peace. kids over there don't have that kind of luck. let us put our heads together and try to put an end to this conflict. i don't have the answer, because i would have given it to you. but you guys at the commission are smarter. put it on. give those kids a future again. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall try to make my speech in italian, mr president. (laughter and applause) because, apart from my country, and again, i am, president conte, in love with italy and italians. for me, italy is more than a country: for me, italy is a whole civilization. italy is the birthplace of our european civilization and for centuries artists, writers and intellectuals from all over europe have visited italy at least once in their lives. to discover italy meant to visit italy, to visit florence, to visit rome, to visit naples and then to die... (laughter) montaigne did it, goethe did it and that is why, mr. conte, it pains me to see the political degeneration of italy today. it's true, a degeneration that started not yesterday, not a year ago: at least, i think, 20 years ago. the impression is that this beautiful country has gone from being a staunch defender of europe, a founder of our european family, to being a tail-light of the union. that is the impression we have today in this house and also outside. and let 's be honest with you . it all started not with the prime minister conte, it all started with the bad government under berlusconi. that's the truth, too. (parliament adopted the resolution) the misgovernment has also gotten worse under your government, that's the problem... (protests and shouts)...under salvini, under di maio, the real leaders of this government, a government with a behaviour, mr conte, sometimes anti-european and also a government openly hateful towards other member states, which are part of our european family. it is the italian government that has prevented the european union from being united against maduro and from recognizing guaidó as interim president of venezuela. and you know that because you're under pressure from the kremlin and putin. that's the truth. (applause) i would like to thank that is why - and someone has spoken about this - we must say no more to the unanimity rule in the council as soon as possible. it is the italian government, mr conte, which does not have a majority in the council to reform our asylum and migration policy. mr salvini has specialised in blocking ports to migrants but he is also blocking the creation of a real european border, a real european coastguard and the implementation of a european dublin reform at this moment. and this, to me, is an absurd attitude, because italy and the italian people are the first to pay for the lack of this european policy. and in the last year - and this is my third example - your government has also been responsible for the stagnation and one day, i fear, the recession of the italian economy, because your government does not have a strategy for growth, is it not? your government has only one tactic to get you re-elected with gifts and debts. that's the truth. and the last - and i want to end with this - the last lightness of his government, di maio, who is using and abusing his office to support the gilets jaunes, a popular movement, it is true, that is now dominated by a group of vandals, vandals who set fire to cars, break into shops, destroy bus stops. and di maio has even met with christophe chalencon. i know him. christophe chalencon, the president. it is he who has called, not once but twice, for a military coup against the elected president of the french republic. (parliament adopted the resolution) well, that's very nice of you. this is the behaviour of irresponsible people and not the behaviour of a vice-president of the council of ministers of an important european country such as italy. you remember that just a year ago, i think, on november 23, 2017, di maio wrote an open letter to emmanuel macron, expressing his admiration and suggesting that the five star movement was in fact the italian en marche movement. this is ridiculous! so my question to you, mr president, is how long will you continue to be the puppet of salvini and di maio to continue this? (applause and cheers) i invite you to be inspired by our illustrious italian compatriots: spinelli, ciampi, giorgio napolitano, mario draghi... i'm not sure what you mean. (protests and applause) yes, yes, giorgio napolitano, yes, i know! a great european with a great idea and a member of this house. and let's not forget my good friend emma bonino. these are the men and women who make italy great and its great role in europe. that's the difference between mr. conte and all these great people he's forgotten. (applause) i would like to thank
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr president of the council, welcome to the european parliament. italy has a bad reputation in european circles. and yet, when we think of your country, it is rather positive images that come to mind. in italy, citizens have come out in large numbers to support the maintenance of this common good, water, in the public domain. it is also in italy that citizens have spoken out against the return to the priceless and risky energy of nuclear energy. it is also in italy that the movement of "slow food" was born, an antidote to the junk food that is slowly killing our societies. finally, italy has been able to create three million green jobs, thanks in particular to its network of small and medium-sized enterprises. but your government, mr. conte, confronts us with another reality and sometimes brings us back to the worst times this continent has ever known. like when your minister of the interior, who sees himself as your real boss, affirms his dream of expelling the roma and sinti from italy. your country is particularly vulnerable to climate change and faces a possible recession. and in the face of this, as your speech has shown us, you are turning your back on the opportunity to make the ecological transition the driving force of the italian and european economy. you could choose to listen to environmental whistleblowers like rossella muroni, innovative entrepreneurs like catia bastioli, or anti-speculation mayors like matilde casa. but instead, in the name of mythical growth, your government is tearing itself apart with pharaonic and senseless projects, such as the susa valley tunnel or offshore oil exploration, not to mention the continuing consolidation of your country, one of the most beautiful in europe. the country has long been faced with a difficult budgetary equation. and while your predecessors have had a significant share of responsibility, no one can deny that italy has suffered greatly from the austerity policies imposed on the euro area since the maastricht treaty. but rather than seeking to build alliances to reform the euro area so that our common currency benefits all member states, your government is choosing the path of a theatrical and fruitless confrontation which, far from reducing risks, increases them. finally, your country is at the forefront of the challenge of asylum and migration. you could take the example of the dignity and determination of pietro bartolo, the doctor of lampedusa, or of domenico lucano, the mayor of riace. instead, your government is making migrants the scapegoats for all italy's ills and closing its ports to ships that save europe's honour by coming to the rescue of refugees. you could take the hand of our parliament, which has voted by a very large majority to abandon the dublin rule in favour of the european solidarity that you and your government are calling for. the reform, as adopted by our parliament, meets exactly the requirements of your government. but here the five star movement opposed it, while the league abstained. instead, your government prefers to associate itself with those who preach fortress europe while leaving italy to its fate. and if the question of migration is a problem for italy, mr prime minister, i think it is rather to be sought on the part of the almost two million young italians who have chosen, freely or by force, to leave their country in the last fifteen years. do you really think that it is the confused and contradictory policies of your government that will encourage them to return, and especially encourage their brothers and sisters to stay in the country? we believe that it is by making italy the driving force behind an ecological, solidarity-based and democratic transition that you will give your country a future that is worthy of its history, worthy of its place in the european union. and we, for our part, will be with those who are mobilizing and preparing to launch, around these priorities, a 'green and civic wave for italy'.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, i am very pleased to hear you in the chamber today because your colleague, mr salvini, vice-president of the government, who was here in parliament, was very little present at the meetings where decisions were taken in the interests of the citizens, because he was away from the cameras. i have the impression that he continues to act that way within his government: i am not going to be able to work very much and to appear and talk on tv very often, pointing out the culprits of italy's bad situation, namely refugees, africans, gays, french, europe itself. once the so-called guilty were the jews, the communists, the gypsies. it is a way of doing politics that clearly recalls fascism, which ruined italy, which forced thousands of italian citizens to emigrate after the war to give themselves a future. please don't forget that.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. commissioner andriukaitis, ladies and gentlemen, there are many challenges in our policy to improve the life of a woman with cancer. for me, this starts with prevention at european level. the first challenge we have to tackle is to harmonise the quality of screening across europe. early screening of at-risk groups can already drastically reduce the number of patients. the quality of life is greatly affected by any type of cancer. for example, women have to contend with depression, anxiety, sleeping disorders, loss of appetite, and lack of zest for life. in addition, the side effects of cancer therapy can lead to premature menopause, making motherhood almost impossible for young women. which is why i support the transforming breast cancer together initiative. this initiative will bring together stakeholders across party and national boundaries to discuss how to improve the lives of women with breast cancer. cancer also has a negative effect on a woman's professional career, with the result that she may be absent for long periods and even lose her job. even after recovery, patients still suffer from the effects. which is why i'm a strong supporter of the "right to be forgotten" initiative. after recovery, it should be possible to take out insurance or to make financial transactions such as loans as if one had never been ill. research and innovation have already led to major advances in cancer prevention, treatment and care for cancer patients. i therefore support the call for a harmonised and progressive european cancer policy. thank you.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party, i would like to say that even now, lgbti rights are not guaranteed in the eu. there are wide differences between eu member states. there is still no comprehensive protection against discrimination on the grounds of gender identity, sexual orientation or sex characteristics. many eu countries do not recognise marriages between two men or two women, but belgium does. prior sterilisation is still a condition for legal gender reassignment in eight member states, while 18 member states require a psychological examination. in 21 member states, 'gender reassignment surgery' is performed on intersex children. the question is whether this is in line with the european charter of fundamental rights. i support the call on the commission to ensure that lgbti rights are a priority in its 2019-2024 work programme, among others, and to strengthen cooperation between the different dgs with the aim of better mainstreaming lgbti rights, such as in the fields of education and health. the commission should also adopt a new strategy paper to promote equality for lgbti people. it is also important that europe continues to raise awareness of lgbti people and their families. in addition, europe must also guarantee freedom of movement for all families, including rainbow families, across the eu, in view of the recent case coman at the european court of justice. in short, it is unacceptable that lgbti people are still treated as second-class citizens in many eu countries.
thank you, chairman. let me thank you for presenting this document, on the floor, at the end of this session. this is very important because we have to have the debate now and lay the foundations for the next parliamentary term. we in europe often have the complacency to consider ourselves world leaders in climate and sustainable development goals. let us be modest, then. let me get some air. we have done a lot in this parliament. we should be proud of that. but it's not enough to get the paris agreement. we must also look with the same modesty at the sustainable development goals and implement them here. that is extremely important: not just in the rest of the world, but here with us. and that means, for us, a radical reversal of policy in europe and of our economic model. and then i'm going to go over the three scenarios that have been proposed. there is only one scenario for our group. i want to be very clear about that. the other two can help, but they're not enough, because they either refocus on the rest of the world, or they focus on changing some legislation here and there. madam president, we see only the first scenario, where we turn the economic governance story of the european union upside down and turn it into a sustainable development pact. i thank you, mr president and mr vice-president.
president, as a member of parliament who is critical of what i consider to be the undemocratic federal evolution of the european union - a union which is being pushed and promoted by federalists and centralists, including with reports such as this one - i voted against this report by mr atondo on the future of europe. i could have voted for it, however, because it is a useful document. i think it can be very useful in opening the eyes of citizens who are going to vote for the european parliament. this report is a chilling list of what the eu's federalists are up to, what their wildest and in some respects most savage plans are for something that began as cooperation between the peoples of europe, but which threatens to end in an orgy of concentration of power in the hands of people who want to build a building that is alien to the world and not wanted by the citizens at all, if necessary against the will of the people. i will campaign with this report in my pocket.
president. - mr president, we were here today to discuss fair taxation for a just society. but if i listen carefully to some of my colleagues, i hear them not talking about fair taxation but about more taxation. but the people who work, save and do business are the people who are carrying our wealth on their shoulders. they are the reason for solidarity. and today they feel punished in many cases by the already skyrocketing taxes. now i hear some colleagues pleading for even more taxes in the name of justice. but you confuse justice with enforced equality. you confuse giving more opportunities with imposing more redistribution. for me, justice means that everyone has equal opportunities to develop their talents to the full, without unfair rules that favor certain groups, and without policies that favor only certain lobbies. that's justice, and there's a lot of work to be done. so let's focus on that and not on raising taxes.
in writing. fair taxation is a priority. that's the way it is now, and that's the way it always has to be. but it can be better. google, facebook and other internet giants receive expensive gifts from the member states. europeans lose €825 billion a year to tax evasion. this is equivalent to €1,650 per european citizen per year. this can't go on forever. from a democratic point of view, it is crucial that something changes. if this does not happen, the legitimacy of the union will be undermined. but much more importantly, money from europeans that is simply disappearing now can be reinvested in european society. if we make sure that taxes are distributed more fairly among citizens and businesses, everyone can benefit from the system. then there will be no need to pay unreasonably high contributions. we believe that a just world is possible. we must therefore take all possible steps to achieve this. this requires the cooperation of the member states. we believe that the only way to negotiate efficiently is to abolish unanimity in the council.
in writing. our tax system is clearly out of date. digitalization and globalization are blurring borders and making it easier for companies to shift their profits to where they are least taxed. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. but how sovereign are we when there's nothing left to tax? for me it 's simple: taxation must be paid where the economic activity takes place. until we can do that, we should not be surprised if multinationals and internet companies on average do not contribute half of what our smes pay. that is why we urgently need to work on dossiers such as the ccctb and a digital tax. the eu should be a trendsetter, but it is paralysing itself through bickering and mutual vetoes in the council of ministers. the european commission has opened a debate on the abolition of the rule of unanimity in european taxation. it will take political courage, but let us put an end to this once and for all so that we can tackle the necessary issues.
the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. firstly, patients with a rare cancer or disease have a better chance of having a medicine that works thanks to this european cooperation. the commission will also be able to provide the member states with access to large-scale research data, subject to appropriate privacy safeguards. secondly, the clinical evaluation of new health technologies ensures that member states are kept informed of market developments and whether these products perform better than those already on the market. by putting more emphasis on innovative developments, we are boosting our health sector at european level. thirdly, i am pleased that flexibility is maintained, both for the member state and for the coordination group which is drawing up the evaluation. member states shall decide whether to introduce a reimbursement system for this new technology. the coordination group shall keep track of which new technologies are ground-breaking. if we are to make the full map of research and innovation for europe, putting the patient at the centre, then a european health technology assessment is the way forward, together with the member states.
mr president, one of the great strengths of our european economies is the openness with which we welcome investment from all over the world. but if anyone thinks that foreign investment is only coming with good intentions, he is mistaken. we're seeing more and more aggressive takeovers or investments by companies that seem to fall under chinese state control, for example. the european union must not adopt a naïve open-border policy for these investments. we must maintain a balance between openness and protecting our strategic interests. and that must be done without putting pressure on the good economic ties between countries. we remain open to free trade without opening the door to protectionism. that is why i support a european framework in which the european union plays a coordinating role. the member states thus retain their autonomy to develop mechanisms themselves. this is an area where the european union can create added value through its scale without replacing the individual member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps you are aware of the problem. you are travelling to a european country with a currency other than the euro, and when you put your card into the machine, you are asked whether you want to pay in euro or in the local currency. later you come home and see on your bank statements that you made the wrong, overpriced choice because of all kinds of expenses. we're putting an end to that now. there will be more transparency on costs and exchange rates, so that consumers will no longer be surprised and will be able to choose fairly whether to pay in euro or in the local currency. in addition, this agreement also ensures that money transfers to a non-euro country in the european union will cost the same in euro as in the local currency. most of the time, it's free. consumers, but also smes, will thus save money. we are therefore taking two good measures here in the interests of the european consumer and in the interests of smes.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for this debate. i was listening carefully and i heard only positive encouragement. i can assure you that the commission will, in its work, take actions in the future to promote and further integrate inland navigation into the overall european transport policy. as for the questions by honourable member mr marias, i would invite you to submit to me in writing your question because i really did not understand exactly what you were directly asking me, but i would like to reply. i’m very much looking forward to the adoption of your resolution tomorrow and i think everybody here is convinced, and hopefully many more, that inland waterways are the future for the eu as well.
in writing. we call on the european commission today to urgently work on a new and ambitious action programme for inland navigation, to follow up and improve the naiades ii action programme for the period 2014-2020. we must continue to invest more in the opportunities and advantages of inland navigation in the years ahead. in order to meet the goals of the paris agreement, our transport sector needs to decarbonise significantly. inland waterway transport can play an important role in this respect, as transport is shifting from road to water. that is why we must give inland navigation extra support, for example through cef ii, by removing bottlenecks. the directive on technical requirements for inland waterway vessels, a dossier for which i was rapporteur, has brought about a single technical standard for inland waterway vessels in the eu (and no longer, as before, a standard for the eu but a separate standard for the rhine). the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fisheries policy is not disrupted by the introduction of a new system of quotas.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. effective controls and, of course, simple, accessible and transparent procedures are important here, especially for our smes. however, they are being delayed by the delay in the introduction of essential electronic systems. and that is disappointing. if we consider that one in forty jobs in flanders is currently dependent on exports to the united kingdom, it is important, especially for flemish ports, that europe establishes good cooperation with the british customs services, and especially after brexit. in 2017, imports into and exports from the european union amounted to eur 3 700 billion. and then there is also an increasing online consumption. so additional efforts are urgently needed to meet all the challenges. differences in the level and quality of controls, procedures and sanctions are not acceptable. and as one of the largest trading blocs in the world - i conclude, mr president - we must excel in credibility, efficiency and also a high level of consumer confidence.
mr president, i am far from underestimating the seriousness of the situation in venezuela. nevertheless, it has become a habit of this parliament to put the situation in venezuela on the agenda of almost every one of its plenary sessions and i see that a number of us are actually exploiting the situation in that country - you yourself, mr president, you are not the last, you have just done it - to make speeches of a political nature and to do what i call political gesticulation. so i think that one more resolution, one more debate in this parliament will do nothing to resolve the serious situation in this country and i would add that if there are any aficionados of the situation in venezuela in this parliament, i suggest that they collect signatures for the constitution of a special committee on venezuela, in which they will have all the time they need to debate the situation in that country to the full. i also note that when it comes to countries like morocco or egypt, curiously, this parliament is much more silent. these are obviously countries which are close to us geographically, but it also seems that we need them to solve certain problems in europe.
for the greens/efa group mr president, a very different subject which we are not in the habit of discussing in parliament is the question of animal suffering, and therefore animal welfare. it is becoming increasingly clear from reading the scientific literature that fish farmed in aquaculture are in situations of severe suffering. i think it is important, as this issue is gaining in importance in the public debate and with many of our fellow citizens, that we can express ourselves in writing, by means of a resolution, at the end of this debate. i therefore ask you to put a resolution on the agenda for the march ii part-session which will conclude the debate on this subject in this house on thursday.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the echr to include the european court of justice, the european court of human rights and the european court of human rights. however, the ecris database is not suitable for the exchange of information on convicted foreigners. it is now always a bureaucratic ordeal to find out whether a non-european citizen has a criminal record or not. in practice, the judiciary has to draw up 27 separate requests and send them to each eu member state, with the result that this cumbersome procedure is barely followed. foreigners with criminal records are free to go. due to a lack of information, a belgian court cannot currently take into account previous convictions in other eu member states. this is an unacceptable gap for us. foreigners with a criminal past should be treated as harshly as belgians or eu citizens with a similar criminal past. the present proposal aims to adapt european legislation in order to simplify the exchange of information on convicted non-european citizens. a central database will keep track of which foreigners have been convicted in which member state, allowing the authorities to quickly retrieve additional information. this dossier is an excellent example of the added value that the european union can offer. the n-va is satisfied with the outcome of the negotiations. the proposal includes fingerprints to facilitate identification of individuals and also includes dual nationals. we therefore fully support this legislative package.
mr president, the rapid pace of digitalisation is making cyber security increasingly important. foreign telecommunications companies are gaining market share here. research shows that our companies are not sufficiently equipped to deal with cyber risks and we need to be vigilant against interference from other power blocs. that is why we are now coming up with the cybersecurity regulation, a european strategy with a whole range of measures with which we are investing in data security and protection against cyberattacks. and we're not doing it alone. we leave ample room for governments and companies to make mutual agreements and to continue to invest in innovation. we must now ensure that the necessary investments are made throughout europe and that the measures are properly implemented in the interests of the european consumer. i call on the european union to follow up this and i urge member states such as belgium to take further measures themselves to tackle, for example, the shortage of cybersecurity experts. let's make europe safe online, and we will do it together.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. mr president, commissioner, this directive is without doubt one of the great achievements of this parliament. it was our duty to combat the imbalance between small producers and the highly concentrated agri-food and distribution sectors. this pressure on prices from the markets is one of the causes of the present suffering of the agricultural world, whereas european food must be a top priority. the long-awaited directive abolishes unfair trading practices in the food supply chain, while enhancing transparency and fighting against blackmail by multinationals. in this connection, i would like to warmly commend the excellent work of my colleague and friend paolo de castro, with whom we worked together in a very tight deadline to ensure that this text, which is so important for our farmers, is finalised before the end of this mandate. finally, i urge all member states to go even further in their national legislation to eradicate, once and for all, these unfair practices which are extremely damaging, both for farmers and food smes, but also for european consumers.
president. - mr hogan, i would like to thank you for your reply. i think this directive is absolutely necessary if we are to ensure the survival of our farmers in europe. finally, this directive will enable us to put an end to 16 unfair trading practices. this directive will ensure a level playing field and a stronger position for farmers. it will be done, colleagues, with last-minute cancellations of orders. it will be done with unilateral changes to agreements and it will be done with refusal of written agreements. colleagues, commissioner, a 2017 eurobarometer survey showed that as many as 88% of respondents called for strengthening the position of farmers in the chain. we will do that with this directive and i hope that the member states will implement it very quickly so that we can give farmers in europe a little better support.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, i am very pleased that we are here tonight to discuss political relations between europe and russia. we shouldn 't put it under chairs or benches . the relationship between europe and russia is not good, and that is probably another understatement. we have less contact with russia now and we negotiate less with russia than we did during the cold war. this should make us think about how we should deal with this reality in the future, given that we have been in a political impasse of sanction and counter-sanction for five years. the dialogue is far from over. to break out of this impasse, i can tell you that the alde group has produced a very fine paper on a new strategy for russia. a strategy in which we put the whole eu-russia relationship in a broader perspective. a strategy which opens the door to dialogue, because russia is and will remain europe's great neighbour. a strategy based on conditional commitment, based on the helsinki process of the 1970s, through parallel processes whereby every time progress is made in one area, cooperation is initiated in another area, not just looking at the economic sanctions in relation to the minsk agreements. a strategy in which we unconditionally reach out - and i think that is very important - to the russian citizens and civil society. you know, ladies and gentlemen, that at the moment a whole generation of russians is growing up with anti-european sentiments. i am concerned about this, and that is why it is important that we here in the european parliament send a signal that we must look at dialogue and that we must establish cooperation where it is needed.
"blue card" question. what is it? mr president, i think all the women in this chamber are really outraged. let's stand up together here today. i think it's incredible that you are saying this parliament doesn't have any intelligence! i think it's unlikely you'd take it out on the women! i 'd like to ask you ... (the president cut the speaker off)
"blue card" question. what is it? please repeat your statement that you think women are less suited to perform the same tasks as men? because that's what i've learned from your intervention.
president, i am reading a report which is again very sharp for turkey, and lists very precisely what is wrong with the country, especially after the coup attempt of 2016. but what i don't read or don't read enough are the appropriate conclusions, namely: no more european money for ankara, stop the funding. ipa ii resources for turkey may have been reduced, but they still represent only a small part of the total budget that the eu spends on turkey. i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. the accession talks must be terminated immediately. not suspended, but terminated. turkey cannot become a member of the european union. the upgrading of the customs union would also be a wrong signal. the root that this parliament wants to propose - upgrading in exchange for reforms - lacks credibility. in conclusion: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the visa regime is not liberalized, as this would create major problems for the eu member states. those are the only correct conclusions. i'm so sorry i missed that in the report.
mr president, there are some 80 million disabled people in europe and some 150 million elderly people. any legislation that improves the accessibility of products and services is a step forward that really benefits everyone in europe. so i am glad that the dossier on accessibility requirements for products and services can now be completed. steps have been taken in the right direction, although they are not going far enough for me. compared to the united states, europe is seriously lagging behind in terms of full accessibility. in the united states, the americans with disabilities act created a cultural shift. not only the government, but also all kinds of private companies see accessibility as an opportunity rather than an obligation. that's the kind of mentality we're missing here. as a result, people with disabilities in europe continue to face obstacles that should no longer exist. the result is that their potential is underused, which is a real shame!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of tax havens. fortunately, the commission has done its job this time. it can always be better - it must be better - but parliament also drew up a list of tax havens two weeks ago and, without any methodology, they had belgium on it. so i think the commission has done a good job on this one. so there is now a new list and the countries on it, panama, iran, etc., are not sanctioned, but european banks have to do extra checks on transactions involving customers or banks from those countries. i think that is very important in the fight against financial fraud. we support that fight. it is something that my party has been working hard for over the past few years and we will continue to fight for it.
the ees facilitates the visa application process and at the same time combats visa fraud and illegal migration. the system links border guards with eu consulates around the world. it provides the visa issuing authorities with essential information on the applicants, while border guards can detect and stop travellers with bad intentions. 16 million short-stay schengen visas are issued annually. the importance of the system cannot be underestimated. i fully support the practical improvements that this proposal proposes, from automatic cross-checks with other databases and access for law enforcement authorities, to the storage of information to facilitate the return of illegals. any reform that can overcome the shortcomings of the current database and make it even more useful and effective can count on our support. the text before us today seems to us to be an excellent starting point for negotiations with the council during the next parliamentary term.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, more than 48 million visa applications and 41 million fingerprints have been registered. the truth is that the visa information system is already, in its present form, a very good tool, both necessary and effective. thanks to the proposals contained in the report by our friend carlos coelho, whom i congratulate on the quality of his work, the system will become even more efficient tomorrow. we support inclusion in the vis, long-stay visas and residence permits. at present, data on third-country nationals staying for a long period in the territory of a member state are not exchanged. the exchange of these will allow residents to prove their right to stay throughout the schengen area easily in the future and will also introduce a start of transparency in the issuing - i should say the sale - of visas and long-stay documents. i support and we support the idea of facilitating law enforcement services and europol's access to data recorded in the vis. i support and we support the wish to record a copy of the applicant's travel document, in order to facilitate return procedures. i support, although not unanimously in my group, the desire to lower the age at which fingerprints are recorded in the vis from 12 to 6 years, which will allow for better controls when crossing an external border and will offer better protection for children. i would remind you that, according to the data available, 40% of the children involved in human trafficking are under 12 years old. finally, i would stress that in addition to the automatic search in the databases, visa applications will be analysed on the basis of specific risk indicators based on statistics and information provided by the member states, which will eliminate abnormal refusal rates or overstaying of certain categories of third-country nationals. carlos, i congratulate you on your work, which deserves the support of our parliament.
for the ecr group crossborder problems such as terrorism and serious crime cannot be solved by member states alone. the eu's financial and technical support is therefore welcome. that's why the security fund was created. it covers, among other things, the integration of various eu databases and the purchase of technical equipment. i support the call for a doubling of the budget, precisely because the threat to security in europe has increased enormously in recent years. we think it is excellent that these funds will also be used specifically to combat child abuse and hacking. that operations such as vigilant guardian, where our military are on the streets protecting civilians, could also be eligible for financial support under this budget line as well. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. this is a problem because the legal impact of the separate draft law on the protection of the union budget is not watertight.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i have to tell mr henkel that personally i have always said the exit of britain from the european union is a failure of the european union. when a big country like the uk leaves the european union, it’s difficult to say ‘oh, what a fantastic thing’. it is the opposite. i think that the place of the uk is inside the european union, and i’m also pretty sure that there will be a generation in the coming years, in the coming decades, who will return to the european union. i am sure that this young generation already exists in the uk and that they will take a decision other than that taken by this government and this majority. but, mr henkel, may i ask you to tell this to your own friends in your own group, in the ecr, who are the main people in favour of a brexit for the moment. it is rather easy to give lessons to us here, and especially to me, and to say ‘yeah, you don’t like britain’ – and in fact the opposite is true – but not to be capable of convincing your own people in your own group, who are not here for the moment to applaud you, i see. nobody is there. secondly, the reality, mr henkel, is the following. what started this whole brexit was, in fact, an attempt by the conservative party – and you’re working with the conservative party, you know them very well – to ‘take back control’. that was the big slogan of the brexiteers and it is still their big slogan. it seems to me that britain is spinning out of control, instead of being back in control. i think, mr henkel, that the only reasonable way to solve this problem – and you didn’t talk about it unfortunately – is through cross-party cooperation in british politics, as soon as possible, through a compromise, a common view, between labour and the conservatives. how you do you go about solving an existential problem like brexit if it is used by both parties to kill each other? for them, brexit is a bullet in a weapon and not an existential problem of a country and of a whole continent, and that’s a shame. (applause)so our appeal, and yours, in this plenary has to be not to attack one or other of our colleagues but to say this to the british political class: start to make an agreement between the two big parties and start to have an opinion that we can support here in this parliament, and that opinion will be for a close relationship between the uk and the eu. that is the way forward. what is needed is that, in british politics, queen and country should be put first, instead of the party politics that are governing the uk and the house of commons for the moment. and that brings me to the next question, of an extension. i don’t want a long extension and i say that to you very openly. why go beyond the european elections? if we do so, the european elections will be hijacked by the brexiteers and by the whole brexit issue. we will talk only about that, and not about the real problems and about the real reforms that we need in the european union. the other thing we will do is to give a new mandate to mr farage: that’s the only thing that we going to do. (noise)that’s exactly what he wants, and why does he want it? for two reasons. first of all, he can continue to have a salary that he can transfer to his offshore company. (murmurs) and, secondly, he can continue to do his dirty work in the european union: that is to try to destroy the european union from within. that is the real purpose. and that is absolutely what we don’t need. what we do need now is certainty from the house of commons, from a majority in the house of commons, as mr henkel has also asked for. that is what we need. i am against every extension, whether of a day, a week or even 24 hours, if it is not based on a clear opinion of the house of commons on something so that we know they want. is that less ambitious than the deal? okay, it is less ambitious than the deal, that’s your opinion. if it is a customs union, it is a customs union. if it is the deal, it is the deal. if it is a norway-plus, it’s a norway-plus. but, please, make up your mind in london because this uncertainty cannot continue, not for us, not for britain, and certainly not for our citizens. (applause)
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again the president of the european council has decided to ignore our assembly. is it really surprising given the particularly meager record of heads of state or government, those whom donald tusk likes to call leaders? since 2015, not a single council meeting has been held without the issue of asylum and migration being discussed, which donald tusk has wanted to make the top of the list of priorities. after more than three years, we could legitimately have expected the council to provide a concerted response to this challenge. what the hell! the council has just concluded that it would not conclude anything. the heads of state or government are showing their inability or rather unwillingness to agree. it took half the time in parliament to find a majority of more than two thirds for a common approach combining solidarity and responsibility. we're still waiting for the leaders. where is the leadership, when the scientific world is giving us 12 years, no more, to take decisive action to save the climate and little more to save biodiversity? once again, the leaders are simply deaf, blind and mute to the anger of europe's youth. we are still waiting for the first council meeting to put this at the heart of its discussions. where is the leadership, when more and more of our fellow citizens are rising up to reject a society where wealth is concentrated in ever fewer hands? these inequalities are the result of tax and social competition between member states, the flexibilisation of the labour market, the digital revolution and a globalist worldview. we are still waiting for this to be put on the leaders' agenda. they're not even at the point of consciousness yet. where is the leadership when, within the european council itself, a growing number of leaders - always themselves - deliberately choose to undermine the foundations of our democracy: separation of powers, independence of the press and the judiciary, respect for privacy, respect for the principles of necessity and proportionality in restricting public or individual freedoms or in using violence to suppress protests? while this parliament denounces these serious deviations and has, for example, instructed the council to open a procedure against the hungarian government, we expect something else, madam president, than a polite response. whatever happens to brexit and this topic stops being a distraction, ladies and gentlemen, waiting is no longer an option. we cannot forever expect the goodwill of those who present themselves as leaders but are actually followers in the best of circumstances. the real leadership today, ladies and gentlemen, is to put the preservation of our environment, social and economic justice and the defence of democracy and our freedoms at the heart of political action and the construction of europe. that is our ambition.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). this is one of those weeks. the despair, almost all the other members have already spoken a great deal about, about the mood of yesterday, and what that brings us now and where it should take us. i agree with many colleagues, especially those in my group, who believe that it is time to give the people a chance to speak again, because the british parliament is not going to get out of the way. i think we need to get back to the people to get out of this impasse. there was a lot of hope this week, too. i'll tell you why. there were 60 young people in this parliament who tried to get a whole parliament to finally put climate policy at the top of the political agenda. not just to achieve the far too low ambitions of 2030, but above all to raise those ambitions. if we want to do paris, if we want to meet paris, we're going to have to do 55 percent by 2030 and be completely carbon neutral by 2050. to achieve this, it is also important that we come to a european climate law which incorporates our commitments made in paris and which imposes important obligations on all member states, so that there can be no freeriders. the young people are right to ask us to take such action. that was definitely a sign of hope this week.
madam president, commissioner malmström, i still dream of a europe where we can achieve coherence between our social, agricultural, development, trade and environmental policies. commissioner, can you explain to us the advantage of increasing imports of american soya beans, under the blair house agreements of 1992, to the european continent, rather than increasing the production of agricultural, plant-based proteins at european level? explain to us the value of continuing to sacrifice agriculture, which is the adjustment variable of all other policies, in the free trade agreements you are promulgating. the massive import of soybeans was already in contravention of the kyoto protocol, and it is in contravention of the paris agreements. commissioner, you who come from the beautiful country of greta thunberg, will you stop pretending to listen? will you finally bring trade policy into line with the urgent need to combat global warming?
madam president, madam commissioner, i really feel that the european commission is doing a great job when it comes to liberalizing trade. your arguments, in general, are arguments that can be heard, for example: we make agreements with countries that are friendly countries, with countries that share our values and that share our rules. but tell me, how does mr. trump and his administration share our values? what are our climate values? it has decided to withdraw from the negotiations and from the negotiating table of cop21. the values of international trade? mr. trump has decided not to abide by the rules of the wto. you are the defender of the wto rules, why do you want to sit around the table with the trump administration, when this same government does not respect the rules that you think should be respected? so i ask you to give me one argument that you would be able to change the current policy of the trump administration, a policy that does not respect europe. i do not believe that and i do not think it would be appropriate today for the council to authorize the mandate you propose.
member of the commission. – madam president, the agreement that president juncker made in july with president trump was to try, despite our disagreement in several areas, to find ways in which we could cooperate. we talked about liquefied natural gas (lng). there is a desire for many european countries to buy american lng instead of lng from other important partners and the americans agreed to facilitate that. that is a decision to be taken by every member state and their companies. of course, it is not the commission buying gas. the increase of soya beans is also a result of markets. the commission is not buying soya beans and stocking them in the berlaymont building. this is market policy because it has changed quite considerably. we agreed to accept the american sustainability scheme in full compliance with the directive. we also agreed that we would cooperate to reform the world trade organisation (wto). we have disagreements there as well, but we also have a process where we work with the americans and the japanese to try to write new wto rules in order to counter some of the state capitalism from china, for instance. that work is ongoing. we also agreed that we would cooperate on some regulatory matters in full transparency, voluntarily, with full respect for our respective protective systems. we agreed that we would seek negotiations on two limited – but still important – agreements. one on the conformity assessment – and i haven’t heard anybody question that here today – and the other one would be on a limited agreement, a tariff on industrial goods. this is what we are asking you to give your opinion on here. in the proposed mandates, there are clear conditions. we could not conclude anything if the tariffs on steel and aluminium were not lifted before we try to conclude. there would be no additional tariffs under 232, for instance, on cars. in the course of these negotiations, we will also do an external study on an impact assessment on sustainability. we will – and we have already started to – consult with civil society. it is crystal clear in this mandate – and by accepting it, you would make it even clearer in writing – that agriculture is not included in the negotiations. it is a limited agreement that we are asking for on industrial goods, including fisheries and cars. that would make it wto compatible and the sums are not negligible for the european union either, so we are not giving anything away. it is not, however, a full free trade agreement. it is not taking ttip out of the freezer. ttip is really far down in the freezer. for different reasons, it was not possible to advance under the obama administration and it is not possible in any foreseeable future to advance now either and, of course (you too have mentioned it), also because the us have withdrawn from the paris agreement. as i said, there are several disagreements with the trump administration, but the us – the us people, the us elected assemblies, the us nation – is a friend of the european union and we have every interest to try to find areas where we can cooperate, where we can talk, and where we can have a dialogue. this is the unanimous will of the european council as well. that’s why we are asking you to agree on these two negotiating mandates. the council is ready and i hope that you too can vote in favour tomorrow.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the european semester. with the election coming up, they're going to get more political. the questions we must ask ourselves in the context of the semester are precisely those which make us feel politically involved: "what is the state of our economy?", "what are the big challenges?", "what are our priorities?" and, above all, "how do we ensure that we can pass on the welfare states we have to our children?". fellow citizens, some of you may want to lobby for more investment. others of you will ask for more budgetary discipline. still others will suggest that the reins should be tightened. as a true christian democrat, i will start the debate now. i think the best course of action is a sensible combination of all these options. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. it's important that we tell them and our children the whole story. it just so happens that my two-year-old son is visiting today and tomorrow. it's also for him that i'm standing here today. i want to make sure that in the future, it's the welfare state that can protect him and his loved ones, even when things are tough, and if he gets sick, he can be cured, and he can be guaranteed a fair pension, the moment he can close the life he's built again. it is that future, this great story, that legacy of decades of building wealth and the well-being of our citizens that is at stake. the ageing population is one of the most important demographic developments of the 21st century. this is a great progress in itself, but it comes with gigantic challenges. first, the cost of pensions, health care and elderly care will increase dramatically in the coming decades, and that's going to put tremendous pressure on our treasury. secondly, ageing also means that proportionately fewer people are in work and therefore fewer people will be able to help finance all of these costs. this puts a second strain on our treasury. so it is time to act, and i think on three fronts at once. we need to invest, we need to reform the structure and we need to get our budgets in order. first, i think that's where it really starts, a healthy treasury. we need to build up fiscal buffers to protect ourselves against those rising costs of aging. more elderly people automatically mean more pensions, more health care costs and more elderly care costs. we really need to prepare for this. if not, we'll pass the bill on to the next generation. secondly, it is important to implement structural reforms that will reduce the costs of an ageing society and that will allow the proportionally smaller group of working age people to get as much work as possible. employers must be able to hire and fire workers more quickly. workers should be able to switch between different types of work more easily. my parents are still of the generation in which people worked for the same employer all their lives. that model is already under pressure. we're seeing that today. and our children, i think, will simply not know that model. politics must therefore create a framework to facilitate this transition. to make workers more flexible and resilient, constant training, retraining and lifelong learning will have to become the new standard, whether we like it or not. finally, if we are to really tackle ageing on this european continent, investing in the future is crucial, not just in human capital, as i have just indicated, but also in future productivity, to ensure our economic growth. we need investment in research and development, in innovation and digitisation, in infrastructure projects. investing wisely today means reaping tomorrow. that is the path we must chart with the european semester. a socioeconomic compass that keeps us on track and offers a real guarantee of a sustainable future.
the annual growth review is part of the european semester for the coordination of the union's economic policies. you know that we socialists and democrats think that this semester is too much about purely economic and budgetary questions and not enough about social questions. indeed, what is the point of creating jobs if they are poorly paid and poorly protected, such as zero-hour contracts? what good is it to have a balanced budget, which forbids investing in the future, in education, in training, but also in the ecological transition? what is the point of having growth if it generates the inequalities that are increasingly present in europe today? is it not true that social and cultural inequalities are the main danger to democracy? we are now experiencing this in many european countries. in the proposal before us today, these social concerns have been heard and supported in the committee on employment. i will mention a few: better access to education and training; the importance of decent wages and collective bargaining; reforms that do not undermine solidarity and the redistribution of wealth; and finally investments in the ecological transition. i come now to an amendment which the epp wants to table at the time of the vote and which concerns pensions. the epp believes that the only way to have decent pensions is to have private pensions. i would like to tell the epp that private pensions are the main obstacle to equality between men and women. women today do not benefit from the pillars of private pensions. to claim that the pension problem will be solved by private pensions is to increase inequality with regard to women within europe. we will oppose this amendment because there are other ways of dealing with the pension question.
on behalf of the group of the european right thank you, mr president. i would like to thank mr vandenkendelaere, rapporteur, for his interesting report. we've known each other since we were youth leaders, tom from his party and me from mine. we were already thinking about whether people of our generation would ever get a pension. because many young people no longer believe in the social contract as we know it and as we need it. today's pensions are paid by the active, working people. but because of ageing, we have less and less income to spend on more and more. in belgium, these costs will amount to more than 15 billion. that is the subject of this report. what measures must we take to ensure that the younger generations of workers are not squeezed out now and then left without a pension? reforms are urgently needed, because the present situation is unsustainable. if we continue in this way, then everyone will eventually have to provide for himself if he wants to face his old age with a calm heart.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much for this debate. we are now continuing as a dialogue with member states and seek a common understanding of the challenges and policy actions to address them. we expect national reform programmes and stability or convergence programmes by mid-april and, as always, the commission strongly encourages the close involvement of national parliaments, local authorities and social partners in the preparation of national reform programmes. based on this, we will present our country’s specific recommendations in a spring european semester cycle, so i’m looking forward to continued, constructive dialogue with you in the coming months.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members and the commissioners for their remarks. they addressed important points and their remarks will provide valuable input for the discussions in the council that touch upon many aspects of the european semester, such as the environment, competitiveness and social policies. the country reports published by the commission in february represent an important step in the current process. they form the basis for the work which will eventually lead to the adoption of the semester’s country-specific recommendations during the semester. when working on the european semester and debating the country-specific recommendations, we should always remember the importance of reaching as many citizens as possible to increase national ownership. i commend the initiatives taken in this regard, including the increased dialogue in the capitals and the consultation with social partners. today’s debate showed that, while there are some differences, there is a lot of common ground to build on. this gives me confidence in our continued cooperation in looking at the challenges ahead of us and identifying appropriate solutions to tackle them. thank you very much once again for your attention.
- i'm the reporter. thank you, madam president. i also thank all the members for their comments. the semester always opens the door to very political debates, but also to very interesting debates. we always reach some consensus about where our economy is right now, about what the challenges are. these are all the ones that passed the test tonight. rightly so! gender equality, climate, poverty, health care, growing inequality, and then i myself have spoken about ageing. whatever priority you think we should tackle first, it is not going to be achieved by investment alone or by budgetary discipline alone. i'm not going to. we will have to work on investment, reform and budgetary discipline. i'm sure they're not always easy to rhyme. we heard that too in the debate this evening. but it is time we dared to say what the european semester is really about, namely an opportunity. it is an opportunity, not a tedious test, not a test we have to take, but an opportunity for the member states to prepare us for the great challenges ahead. in this sense, dear council, i really count on you to take these proposals to heart, to really see them as a recommendation, not as a punishment from the european commission. a chance to tackle the aging process. it's also a chance to pass on to our children the great achievements of the 20th century.
president, 714 billion euros! that huge amount of junk and non-performing loans is still on the balance sheets of european banks ten years after the financial crisis. there are consequences. in italy, where junk credit is a huge problem, the italian government had to come to the aid of carige in january. that is why these new rules are called. they may be a little more stringent for me. in the meantime, the macrons of this world are always looking for new european funds, transfers, a eurozone budget, a european deposit guarantee fund, and so on. but if everyone would first sweep their own front door and clean up their own debts, the european union would look much better today.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, the european parliament has always played a pioneering role in the debate on deepening the economic and monetary union. it has also showed strong support for the commission’s initiatives to strengthen its architecture. today’s debate about the interim report on the commission’s legislative proposal for the establishment of the european monetary fund is another step. on behalf of the commission, i would first like to thank the committees and, in particular, the rapporteurs, mr silva pereira and mr maňka, and the shadow rapporteurs for their work on this issue. i would also use this occasion to thank those of you with whom the commission has worked very closely over the past years to complete the economic and monetary union. the commission welcomes this interim report and broadly agrees with its most important messages. in particular, we support parliament in its call for the integration of the european stability mechanism (esm) into the union framework. as you know, this was an objective of our proposal. since its creation in autumn 2012, at the height of the crisis, the esm has proved decisive in helping to ensure financial stability in the euro area. its integration into the eu legal order will not only strengthen its institutional anchoring, but will also enable its accountability to the european and the national parliaments to be increased, as well as making its functioning more transparent, a point parliament also addressed strongly in your interim report. another important point you stress, with which we fully concur, is on the need for member states to respect the common rules of the economic governance framework in order to ensure that the competences of the esm do not overlap with or affect those of other eu institutions, and to ensure that any set-up is fully compatible with eu law. i would also like to welcome your call for an anticipated introduction of the common backstop to the single resolution fund by 2020. finally a remark on the name. we proposed ‘european monetary fund’, as this was the terminology used in the policy discussion, but we have taken note of the objections of the european central bank and of this house and we are open to reconsidering it. maybe we can just stick with the current name, european stability mechanism. since the commission tabled this proposal, we have seen further developments on the various emu work strands. in particular, member states have decided to proceed with a revision of the esm treaty in an intergovernmental framework. work on the revision of the esm treaty is ongoing and i trust this will make an important contribution to building a stronger economic and monetary union, not least by adding the backstop for the single resolution fund and increasing the effectiveness of the precautionary instruments, while avoiding duplication of roles. in the latter respect, i would like to highlight the agreement on cooperation between the commission and the esm reached in november last year, which was endorsed by the euro summit. our ambition is that the new treaty will include a commitment to integrate the esm into the community framework at the next possible opportunity.
the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the financial protocols with the united states. our monetary union is far from being achieved. on the contrary, i think so. member states which had to save a banking sector suddenly found themselves in trouble. national regulators, each on their own little island, controlling their banks, had no idea of the whole systemic disaster that was coming. some member states also suddenly lost access to financial markets and became dependent on european emergency loans. in the end, we created the european stability mechanism, the esm. that clearly did what it had to do. but it is important to stress that a european emergency mechanism must at all times remain a story of rights and duties. member states which are in danger of losing funding on the financial market should be able to use that mechanism. there can be no doubt about that. but it is equally important, of course, that this aid should remain conditional, so that there is enough money left in the pot for when member states really need it. ex ante with budgetary rules and ex post with economic adjustment programmes. we must absolutely avoid that an emergency mechanism weakens the pressure to comply with the budgetary rules, because europe will come and sort it out when it really needs to. we know, commissioner dombrovskis, that you are personally ready day and night, weekends and weekdays, to save the euro zone. but you wouldn't want us to call you without any conditions. and finally, this. the deepening of our monetary union must be at the top of the agenda. the introduction of the european stability mechanism into the european construction, together with the completion of the banking union and the establishment of the capital markets union, is, i believe, another important and necessary step in making the eurozone "crisisproof".
the european council has also called for the european union to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat terrorism. we do not agree with that. i don't believe in that focus, in bailouts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. such a bailout fund would cost far too much to the taxpayer and would remove the incentive for member states to take responsibility. it is also much more logical to leave the organisation of the esm to the member states, because they are the ones who provide the money in that fund. it is the national parliaments which must be able to control this. we must not focus on new bailouts but on preventing new crises. we do this by making budgetary rules much more effective. we also need to focus on settling the debts. but if a country cannot pay its debts, we must look at how they can be eliminated. the flemish taxpayers should not just take over the problems of other countries. and in the long run, the original 'no bailout' clause in europe must be restored so that savage bailout plans like these do not have to be invented again.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this may be my last budget. one thing is certain, however, for the meps of the current legislature, this is the last budget they are responsible for preparing. as you all recalled, this is also the last budget of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. in such a context, including brexit, the effort could have been weakened, but it was not, and i thank our rapporteur, monika hohlmeier, for that. i will convey our support for the guidelines and priorities she proposes for the 2020 budget. we fully welcome the desire to have the instruments and means to stimulate and support strategic investments, particularly in the digital and artificial intelligence sectors, for the benefit of european economic growth and the creation of quality jobs. we support the call for additional funds for programmes such as cosme and fet (future and emerging technologies), which undoubtedly contribute to the success of start-ups and the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. we strongly support the strengthening of the resources for erasmus+, the youth employment initiative, the european solidarity corps, commissioner, which, i would stress, has already attracted 93 000 applications from young europeans since its creation. congratulations on that idea. we also fully support mrs hohlmeier's emphasis on the need to provide the payment appropriations needed to avoid the mountain of payment delays that we had to deal with in 2014 and 2015 as early as in the 2020 budget. i lived through this period and i have a bitter memory of the council's insensitivity to the serious problems caused by these delays for companies, research centres, researchers and ordinary citizens. we support the necessary strengthening of the resources to be mobilised to ensure better control of our external borders, to intensify the fight against smugglers who are rampant in the mediterranean, and to improve the reception and integration conditions of those who need our protection and to whom we have a duty to grant asylum. we support the additional budgetary efforts we need to make to strengthen our security, both internally by allowing the many instruments and agencies we have created to function effectively while ensuring full respect for citizens' rights, and externally by giving substance to the efforts that are finally being made to lay the foundations for a coordinated european defence capability. three final concerns to conclude. research and innovation, as you have all said, are the keys to the economic future of our society. our words are not followed by deeds. today, europe is overtaken by south korea, japan, the united states, and soon china, in terms of the share of gdp spent on research and development. i cannot understand and do not accept the attitude of the council which, by refusing to apply article 15 (3) of the financial regulation, has not authorised the appropriations available for horizon europe in this year's budget, because of the non-implementation of certain projects. such an attitude is unacceptable and must change. we must also step up the fight against global warming, young people are shouting it in the streets, we are proclaiming it with envy in our debates, our symposia and our publications, and yet i have to say that over the period 2014-2020 we have not devoted to environmental protection and the fight against global warming the 20% of the total budget that we had agreed to devote to it. this is unacceptable and must change. finally, i would like to break a spear in favour of increased support from our budget to unrwa, the un agency responsible for aiding the few million palestinian refugees. donald trump has suspended us aid to unrwa. we must not become as ugly as mr. trump.
for the ecr group president, commissioner, the opposition to the authoritarian regime of daniel ortega has many faces. one of those symbols is named alex vanegas, former athlete. as a young sandinista, he fought with ortega against dictator somoza. but the liberation of one dictator brought another to power. now alex is running again, but in tribute to the victims of police violence. the people call him "el marathonista", the marathon man. but for ortega, he is a terrorist and a coup-maker, as is that other symbol, the young student leader amaya coppens. 24 years old, a compatriot of mine. we visited her in the prison "la esperanza". "show what is happening here", she says, and asks, "because we don't want nicaragua to become the new venezuela". she just ended a 13-day hunger strike. this is her homemade bracelet in the national colors, white and blue. admirable, courageous and strong. i got a letter today from her father, her belgian father. the conditions are dire. people like them are the future of her country. you're not gonna let that future rot in a cell. ortega has chosen the path of repression, censorship and violence. that path is dead. the only way out is for the political prisoners to be released. that is the precondition for a new national dialogue. there must also be new fair elections. we have all said this to president ortega in person, but the pressure, commissioner, must be increased. it will have to be tangible in the form of targeted and individual sanctions. we have an association agreement. there's a democracy clause in there. i am counting on us to be true to our principles and to remain true to them, and that our treaties are more than a piece of paper.
- a writer. yes, we are pleased that the european parliament is tackling human rights violations in kazakhstan. indeed, we concluded an enhanced cooperation agreement with kazakhstan in 2015, in which respect for the rule of law and human rights is a fundamental element. but as a member of the european parliament, i am confronted, at times inappropriately, with testimonies of kazakh citizens who are deprived of their fundamental rights. this is done in many ways, though not always visible to the outside world. intimidation, legal harassment, torture, arbitrary arrest and preventive detention. the following are examples of such practices: free life is being curtailed to protect the regime of president nazarbayev. i will state the names of political prisoners: he was also involved in the recruitment and use of russian forces in eastern ukraine. they are silenced. we, the european parliament, are also victims. activists who wanted to express their concerns to an afet delegation from this house last september were expertly shielded and silenced by the kazakh authorities. i ask the eeas and the commission not only to look at the undeniably interesting business and economic links with kazakhstan, but above all to insist in the talks on respect for the fundamental values that we hold dear in europe.
who remembers nasrin sotoudeh? she was a nurse. that iranian human rights lawyer was our 2012 sakharov prize laureate. nasrin couldn't take him in person because she wasn't allowed to leave the country. iran was one big prison, and it still is. nasrin is sentenced to 33 years in prison and 148 lashes. 33 years in prison and 148 lashes for standing up for women who protested against the mandatory head-covering. the harshest sentence for an activist in years. it confirms what people in the iranian middle class have been telling me. tehran is stepping up its repression. the trials are often a laughingstock, but the punishments are far from it. do you know why iran is becoming more and more aggressive? because it gets away with it. tehran feels completely free to imprison and unjustly harshly treat opponents. until we make it clear to tehran that there will be consequences, commissioner, nothing will change.
for the greens/efa group mr president, pursuant to rule 11 (1) of our rules of procedure, i would like to draw the attention of the whole house to this rule, which states that the conduct of members is inspired by mutual respect, is based on the values and principles enshrined in the treaties, in particular in the charter of fundamental rights. members, including our president, preserve the dignity of parliament and do not damage its reputation. the president of this parliament, antonio tajani, made statements yesterday in the italian media in which he found positive elements in the fascist regime of benito mussolini in italy. thus, he supports the idea that, in the end, there can be good in regimes that destroy democracy. i think that such statements are unworthy, unworthy of the president of a parliament! these statements, ladies and gentlemen, are unworthy of the president of the first transnational parliament in the history of mankind, the parliament of a european union which was set up precisely so that we in europe would never again see the fascist regimes that have stained the history of this continent. i therefore ask the president of parliament to withdraw his statements or else he must withdraw himself.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i think that esteban pons was fully right when he said, a few moments ago, that it is absolutely stupid from all sides to have this debate here and for us to mix this with the start of an electoral campaign which for some of us already seems to have started. but i have to tell you the first person who has to respect this is the president of the parliament not to start his italian campaign, because that is the problem that we are facing for the moment. for that reason (and i will finish with this) – you are chairing our plenary today – i ask you, based on our rules of procedure, to ask the president to take back these words; to apologise for them. and secondly, let’s start our work as plenary immediately. and that’s your task to do so, mr president.
mr president, my delegation also agreed to put an end to the half-yearly changeover from winter to summer time. it makes it possible to simplify the daily life of the citizen. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy savings achieved by the conversion of the energy supply to the demand side are not exceeded. but we risk the contradiction that the abolition of conversion would call into question the existing harmonization. we certainly want to avoid absurd time leaps with our nearest neighbours and our first trading partners, because that does not simplify the lives of citizens, it only complicates them and it complicates the functioning of the internal market. the call by this parliament for a coordination mechanism is a good start in that sense. the current harmonised economic area must not be reduced by the abolition of the existing directive. in the end, a choice will have to be made: a permanent summer or winter time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). there is a lack of application of our european rules and in the end the consumer was the biggest victim. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. for what consumer today wants to face long, expensive and unclear legal procedures to fight these big, powerful companies? that is pure david against goliath. for me it 's simple: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of consumers in the event of infringements of the directive. in order to fight this battle and to uphold consumer rights, a system of collective actions with the necessary safeguards must provide the force to prevent american abuses. in flanders and belgium we are leading the way in this area and i hope that our consumers will soon be able to enjoy this important tool throughout europe.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. i was vice-chairman of that committee myself and i'll continue to follow the case. i have to confess: it's spring, but there's still a lot of work to be done before we can harvest. commissioner bieńkowska recently said that dieselgate is not over yet, and a recent briefing by the european court of auditors is also not reassuring. newspaper headlines: second diesel gate is possible. well, i find it hard to understand that people don't seem to learn from their mistakes, or at least not enough. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's nitrogen standards are not exceeded. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the new standard is not yet in force and that the new standard is not yet in force. we voted against this relaxation because all the technology is available to meet the nitrogen standard, also in real driving conditions and without a negative impact on co2 emissions. the european court of justice rules that the relaxation of the nitrogen standard is de facto illegal, and what does the commission do? she's appealing. good air quality is of concern to everyone. the technology is available, what is stopping the commission?
in writing. i am voting for an update of copyright. the existing directive is obsolete. because that legislation ensures that the more content users upload, the more big platforms earn. unfortunately, that money does not go to the authors, who nevertheless put a lot of time, energy and money into their creations. the new copyright law aims to put an end to this by holding platforms like youtube liable for copyright infringement. this forces them to ask the author for permission, for which he can ask a fair fee. the fear of excessive blocking is, in my view, unjustified. the new directive provides the necessary guarantees for a free internet. many existing platforms were excluded and smaller platforms and startups have a separate scheme. in addition, a general filter is not mandatory and further specific exceptions are clearly defined (memes, snippets, hyperlinks, quotes, etc.). i will never allow the internet to be restricted, but it is clear that the authors of this story are getting the cheese on the bread by the big platforms. it is up to us to be vigilant and to amend the legislation quickly if necessary, but it would be a pity to throw the child away with the bath water.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to take the picture of my colleague evelyne gebhardt, who said that after a long, hard and tough struggle, we gave birth to twins. i'm not qualified to have kids myself, but having twins feels like that. i know parents who have done that or who have been lucky enough to have twins. having twins is really hard, especially the first few months. we have done just that, because we have brought these twin directives into the world. with these two directives, we are for the first time introducing uniform guarantee rules that apply across the eu, whether you buy online or offline, whether it is a piece of furniture, an app or a smartphone. the smartphone is an example of how the boundaries between conventional goods and digital content have become fluid. first of all, it's a device that i can touch. but this device runs on a digital operating system and is almost constantly connected to the internet. and finally, this device also allows me to download all kinds of apps from photo editing to singles trading. the challenge was therefore to create coherent and coordinated guarantee rules that apply to a traditional non-digital product as well as to an operating system or a music streaming app, and to do so as uniformly as possible across the eu. this new legal framework applies where the purchased product or the subscribed video streaming service fails. that's what this is about. what is the consumer's responsibility or the trader's responsibility and what must he consider or take into account? the basic framework that exists when you buy a classic product and that we're introducing now for both digital content and smart devices is basically this. first, every consumer in the eu is entitled to a minimum of two years' warranty on all goods and digital content. secondly, if something breaks down within this two-year period, any consumer can ask the retailer for repair or replacement, a price reduction or even a contract termination with a refund. we have been able to introduce some new features, particularly in the trade in goods. the first is the doubling of the so-called burden of proof period. this means that the consumer no longer has to prove that the product he has bought was defective from the outset after six months, but after one year, and member states are free to extend this period to two years. secondly, it will be easier for the consumer to terminate the contract of sale. if a defect reappears after an initial repair or replacement, the customer can immediately terminate the contract and get his money back. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. so we are clearly empowering consumers by not only giving them clear rights, but also making those rights eu-wide. the aim of this unification is not only to benefit consumers but also to benefit businesses, especially small ones. in future, they will no longer have to worry about which law to apply when selling to other european countries. this is particularly beneficial for small retailers who do not have a legal department like the big online retailers. with these new rules we are strengthening the rights of consumers. we are giving businesses legal certainty and thus confidence in our digital single market and in the cross-border trade of goods. so i thank all the colleagues who have worked on this text. we have shown in all - and i say in all - groups the will to find compromises. and in times of polarization and black and white thinking, the good old compromise is the highest and best form of parliamentary democracy.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in short, five points: firstly, three years of hard work, secondly, a great many meetings, thirdly, very good compromises, fourthly, the rights of consumers have been strengthened, and fifthly, the lives of small businesses have been made easier and better. i would like to thank all my colleagues for this and ask them to vote in favour of this text. thank you, thank you!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not we have discussed this text in many meetings and a large majority in this parliament and unanimity in the committee have led to the fact that the large majority of this parliament supports a programme such as interreg. interreg is the exact opposite of what is happening with brexit. interreg is about working together across borders, investing money from european funds, bringing people together and working out solutions. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have worked on this and wish us that interreg will receive the money it deserves in the next parliament.
i have just voted in favour of the report, mr president, for the abolition of the annual changeover from summer to winter time and i voted strongly in favour of maintaining summertime. - why? - why? our citizens have also made it known that they are in favour of one time, and that is preferably summertime. as far as i'm concerned, it should have gone in sooner. i had actually hoped that this weekend we would switch to summertime for the very last time, but the report has judged and parliament has judged that we need some time, time for a coordination mechanism because we really want to avoid at all costs that there is a patchwork of time zones in the european union, because that would of course be bad for our internal market, for our economy. but i am very happy with this report and i hope, of course, that we can switch to daylight saving time permanently in 2021.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations under the treaty. that is why we greens are pleased that the draft reports before us deal with a number of sensitive issues. first of all, the very controversial appointment of mr selmayr as secretary-general of the commission. the european parliament called it a genuine coup d'état and the european ombudsman also ruled in september that this very bizarre appointment had stretched the limits of the law. all of this deserves further scrutiny. i therefore call for the adoption of the existing paragraphs and the additional amendments. we must also condemn very strongly the fact that selmayr was present at two meetings of the european commission during which the answers to our questions were prepared. he was both judge and party, and that is unacceptable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are not undermined by the fact that the european union is not able to provide the necessary financial support to the czech republic. mr oettinger, i have three specific questions for you. i hope you're listening to me. firstly, what is the state of play of the investigations and audits of various directorates-general into this case in the czech republic? two, when will the final report be ready? three, will there be any further european commission statements before the may 2019 elections? finally, sweeping up the house also means a serious reform of the general expenditure allowance in parliament. we must force the bureau to implement the recommendations of the plenary in accordance with the following principles: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations under the budget. it's the only way to win back the public's trust.
mr president, that is exactly what we need. sometimes we need a little humor in our work. i have a list of amendments from the socialist and democrats group and the epp and it is appropriate to vote against them. so, as a joke, my right side voted for and my left side voted against some amendments, but that did not in any way affect the president's ability to judge whether the amendments were accepted or rejected.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. they are demanding a special belgian climate law. i think that we should first of all leave the symbolism behind and get down to business. to work on the plans that are on the table, with the objectives that have been set. we already have a flemish climate and energy plan waiting to be implemented and also in the european parliament we have been working on a real climate and energy package in the last parliamentary term, on the way to 2030. today we are giving the green light again for a very concrete measure. new vehicles must reduce co2 emissions by 37.5% by 2030. the nva, my party, fully supports this. in belgium, transport accounts for a quarter of co2 emissions. we have the innovative technology to reduce co2 at the source that is so necessary to achieve our climate goals. we also support the demand for a technology-neutral greening of the new fleet. this is a very important link in attracting investment, stimulating innovation and improving the quality of air in our towns and cities. our citizens have a right to clean air. if europe is to compete with china, we must encourage our manufacturers to continue to innovate and to offer and market a sufficient number of low- and zero-emission vehicles. we should invest in that and not in some bogus software to circumvent the standards.
on behalf of the group of the european right how many times have we asked the commission to intervene in the way the european union is supporting turkey? our euros have not yet strengthened democracy in turkey, i think, on the contrary. the fact that the third pre-accession programme provides for an interim evaluation with improved conditionality, that there is a performance-based approach, will not impress mr erdoğan's authoritarian regime at all. i can give you that on paper right now. the only lesson we can draw from the experience of recent years is that we should not focus on the possible enlargement of the union, but on deepening and good neighbourliness. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. support for ipa priorities such as the rule of law, fundamental rights, good governance and alignment with the eu acquis is also possible within the framework of the global financing structure for the union's external action.
president, ladies and gentlemen, not only should this parliament stop the dream of some people here, the dream that turkey will one day become a member of the european union, but it should also stop the billions of dollars flowing to support this dream. the so-called coup d'état led to the dismissal of 140 000 people, including almost 5 000 magistrates and prosecutors. 156 000 people were arrested, 50 000 were imprisoned, 150 media outlets were closed, 231 journalists were arrested and 2 500 were dismissed. when you read that together with the billions of euros that are being invested by the turkish presidency for religious affairs in almost 200 cities here in the european union for the establishment of mosques, turkish state mosques in other words, then i ask you: i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. that support is pointless and accession must never happen. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this debate, but i would like to say that the commission is not involved in this debate. turkey is not a european country, nor will it ever be. i am not asking for war with turkey either, i am asking for good neighbourliness with turkey. i am simply asking that the dream of turkish accession, of turkey's integration as a member state of the european union, be abandoned. that's all i'm saying. so we're on a very different level. you're still trying to save it. i don't see how that's possible.
president, commissioner, thank you for your strong statement. crimea is a stolen peninsula. in march 2014, for the first time since world war ii, a european country invaded and annexed territory from another country. the little green men didn't have any insignia or insignia, but they were russian soldiers. crimea was stolen from ukraine after a carefully planned military operation. mr schaffhauser, russia has thereby violated 47 multilateral and bilateral agreements, such as the 1945 un charter, the 1975 helsinki final act, the 1994 budapest memorandum. the annexation also started the repression, especially against crimean tatars. the stolen peninsula, once a tourist attraction, is now one big military base. the new kerch bridge, the aggression in the sea of azov: the russian provocations are not going away. respect for international law is the foundation of our security structure. the day we stop condemning, the day we relax our sanctions, we are questioning that right ourselves and putting our own security at risk. i hope we never let that happen.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all, i want to say to mr legutko that he is absolutely wrong when he says that there is a sense of humiliation or punishment from the side of the european union towards britain. we have far too much respect for such a great nation as britain to do that. (applause)you know what the problem is? the problem of humiliation and punishment is because of the mess in the tory party. there is the humiliation of the british people, sitting in your group. (applause)they are not even there. the only one there is mr farage. this is a surprise for me because i thought that he was marching somewhere in britain, and he is here. a 200—mile march. how many miles have you done? two miles, you think, something like that? i think so. you remind me more and more – i don’t know if you know him – of field marshal haig in blackadder. do you know field marshal haig in blackadder? in the first world war he was sitting in his office in london, and you are sitting here in strasbourg when your own people are marching in the rain and in the cold. that is the way you are taking your responsibility. i want to recall the words of winston churchill, who said, if i may quote him: ‘success is the ability to go from one failure to another with no loss of enthusiasm’. i think that quote from winston churchill is absolutely applicable today to british politics in the house of commons and prime minister may: this afternoon, in the house of commons – if the speaker allows it, because that’s their system – there will be no less than 16 options on the table for a brexit. so there is certainly no loss of enthusiasm, as in the quote from winston churchill. but, more seriously, after all the negative voting of the last two weeks in the house of commons – against the deal, against the no deal, against the second referendum, and so on – i think there may be light at the end of the tunnel now. with the approval of the letwin amendment, there will be for the first time – after two years of negotiation – maybe a solution based on cross-party cooperation between labour and the conservatives. i believe that such an existential issue as brexit can only be decided on with a cross—party agreement in parliament, as we do here in this european parliament. (applause) i hope that the way forward, giving them time until 11 april, will see a majority in the house of commons for one of these options between remainers and reasonable brexiteers, because it’s between them that they have to find a way forward. in my personal opinion, i’m not counting on the hard brexiteers, because for the hard brexiteers it’s not the interest of the country which is important, but the power struggle inside the conservative party, as we have seen in the last days. i repeat in that respect – and i think that i can say this, mr president, in the name of the whole european parliament – that we are open to having this agreement with britain, and that we are open to change the political declaration in two senses. first of all, in that we can make it more binding for both parties than only a declaration. secondly, in that we can put inside this political declaration a far more intense relationship between the eu and the uk than the relationship that is foreseen in the political declaration at this moment. i think that this deep relationship – to respond to your last intervention, president tusk – will also in some way be the seed for the future. i’m pretty sure that, not now – i’m an optimist, but not as optimistic as you – but within a few generations, there will be the return of britain into the family of european nations. that’s britain’s place, to be inside the european union, not outside the european union. (applause) but it will not be succeeded now. it will be succeeded later on, and the seed is there – let’s be honest – in the march by one million people in london and the petition by six million people a few days ago. finally, my last point, on citizens’ rights: mr barnier and mr juncker, i know there has been a unilateral commitment by britain to respect these citizens, as described in the withdrawal agreement. there is also, from you to mr barclay, a unilateral commitment to do exactly the same for the uk citizens living on the continent. well, i think it’s now time to look into the possibilities, together with mr barclay, you and both houses, to see how we can formalise that as fast as possible so that in any case, whatever happens – even when the most stupid thing happens, for example a no deal – at least these citizens are not the victims of all these games that we have seen in the last two years. (applause)
president, i would like to thank you. i think we had a very good debate here on the council and brexit. i want to tell something to mr farage; i really wanted to tell it to you already a long time. stop telling lies. even today, you continue to tell lies. and then i also want to say to mr ashworth, i think you gave the right message. i think we have to fight for europe. i think we have to renew europe. i think that's the lesson we all have to take here in the european parliament, and that's what i really want that all of us do campaigning for elections in may. fight for europe. protect europe, and know what europe does for us. (applause from the left)
member of the commission. – madam president, on behalf of commissioner bulc, i would like to thank you all for today’s debate. all the elements of the negotiations are on the table now and it is time to vote. the mobility package i, as tabled today, will improve road transport in the european union. it will provide a level playing field for companies by having uniform rules, improved working conditions for drivers and enhanced control possibilities. it addresses many of the known problems in the sector today and, what is more, absence of new european rules will likely lead to a further deterioration of the situation in road haulage with wage and social dumping, fragmentation and protectionism all rising. let me give you examples. for companies the package will bring: a stable and predictable legal framework avoiding uncoordinated national rules, which risk fragmenting the single market; clear lists of documents to be provided and carried in trucks; clear establishment criteria eradicating the growing phenomenon of letterbox companies; a new cooling-off period to avoid the so-called systematic cabotage practices; the professionalisation of van operations with light commercial vehicles, which will be submitted to similar rules in international transport; and an agreed increased use of digital tools, reducing the administrative burden, for example for posting declarations. for drivers the package will also bring important benefits: posting rules will apply to them with minimum wage and employment conditions of the host country; the regular return home or to another private place after a maximum of four weeks will be guaranteed; the conditions for regular weekly rests and obligations of employers to pay accommodation will be clarified; and better resting conditions will be ensured to avoid fatigue and prevent endangering road safety. the package will finally provide for better enforcement with much earlier deployment of smart tachographs with geo-localisation to control posting and driving time; with reinforced administrative cooperation between national authorities; with the use of electronic freight documents to check cabotage rules; and with the use of digital tools to facilitate roadside checks. actually, we note that many among those important measures are in principle, largely consensual within your house. on all other outstanding points we strongly recommend support for the reports of the rapporteurs, which are striking the right balance. i cannot stress enough the urgency of securing a positive outcome on the mobility package i ahead of the european elections. the state of the road market in the union, the working conditions of our drivers and the environment in which our companies are operating are far too serious matters to be left at an unsatisfactory status quo for an as yet unknown period of time. the situation in the road transport sector is extremely critical and needs to be addressed.
in writing. it is high time we finally put an end to social dumping on our roads. drivers should be paid the same wage for the same work, regardless of their nationality. and we must tackle unfair competition by putting on wheels and controlling more effectively the nomadic trucks, the so-called cabotage riders. all new and existing trucks should therefore be accelerated to smart, gps-controlled tachographs by 2024. road transport is by definition cross-border, especially in a small transit country like belgium. a level playing field is therefore essential. the proposal for a european ban on weekends in the cabin is also a good thing. this is important not only from a social point of view but also for road safety. in belgium and france, this is already prohibited and rightly so. a six-by-seven-foot [2 m × 2 m] cabin is far from the ideal place to rest well, let alone spend a weekend after a weekend. and the current driving and rest times must be maintained. the proposals on the table to keep truck or bus drivers at the wheel for up to three weeks in a row with only two days off are unacceptable from a safety point of view.
i'm the reporter. mr president, mr vice-president timmermans, mr commissioner vella, i would like to start tonight with a flashback and go back in time with all those in this house who were with me that night, the night of 18 to 19 december last year. this trilogue and i have led some of them here for the 20 years that i have been in the european parliament when the european union said no to single-use plastics. the commission has spent 12 hours and 30 minutes in marathon negotiations with the council to produce the most ambitious legislation. we had no choice but to be an example and to lead the way in the fight. i have already had to speak dozens of times in committee, in group, in plenary, in hearing. i reminded him of the figures, the images, the tragic situation of our oceans in the world, but also in our own europe. plastic is poisoning our seas, killing their inhabitants and threatening us at the end of the chain. action was urgent, starting with the 10 single-use plastic items and fishing gear that account for 70% of all marine litter. we have every reason to be satisfied with the agreement reached that night with the austrian presidency. several victories are worth noting. first, the extension of the list of single-use plastics that will be banned in two years' time (2021, tomorrow) to the original list of known prohibitions, namely plastic cutlery, plastic plates, cotton buds, balloon sticks, plastic towels. we have convinced the council to add oxide-degradable plastics and expanded polystyrene cups and food containers, frigolite. this adds up to 30% of the plastic waste. we have also maintained, and this was not easy in the face of a reluctant council, the extended producer responsibility regime. this polluter pays principle is now at the heart of our legislation. we have got tobacco manufacturers to be obliged to finance the collection, decontamination and recycling of cigarette butts, and this from january 2023. this is a year earlier than other producers. another point, and not the least, we have managed to add a 25% recycled content target for plastic bottles. bottles, i remind you, are the number one item on the podium of items that pollute our beaches and our oceans. 25% recycled content by 2025, 30% by 2030. it is a fuel for the circular economy. for cigarette filters, cellulose acetate and plastic, the council and the commission have not taken up our reduction targets and i regret that. on the other hand, we have made it mandatory to mark packages to warn of their environmental impact. few citizens know that a single cigarette butt thrown into the ocean pollutes between 500 and 1,000 litres of water. for food cups and food packaging, the text now sets out an ambitious and sustainable reduction by 2026. we wanted to set targets in figures, but we did not achieve that at european level. this task is the responsibility of the member states. i therefore naturally and immediately call on the member states to move more quickly on article 4, as a number of member states are doing, such as france and austria, through the very recent and very ambitious statements by chancellor kurz, but also certain regions such as wallonia. our legislation will save consumers €6.5 billion and create between 30 000 and 50 000 jobs in sectors where there is real know-how in europe. it is a huge amount and everyone is aware of it. it is more, much more, than the 'straw' directive to which we are sometimes reduced. but this is not enough, we are going to go further, and on at least three fronts. an ambitious review of eu packaging legislation, with a quantified target on reducing packaging; a major action plan against microplastics, because it's the macroplastics we've been targeting here; and then a real shift from europe to the circular economy with quality recycling channels. a final word, which is very important to me: the result i am presenting to you is very clearly a team effort. parliament, commission, council, we have worked together, a sacred union in the service of an ambition. so thank you, mr timmermans, for your commitment, thank you, mr vella, for your enthusiasm, thank you also to mr daniel calleja of the environment dg, to mrs köstinger for the austrian presidency, and then, above all, my warmest thanks to my fictitious rapporteurs, mrs auken and mr boylan, mr paolucci and mr demesmaeker, mr pedicini, mr karl-heinz florenz. and in my crew, i add, it is essential, the citizens, those millions of mobilized europeans who have urged us, encouraged us to set the cursor very high for the oceans, of course, for the environment, but above all for us and for our children.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the sea. 7,500 volunteers picked up no less than 11.5 tons of waste, twice as much plastic waste as last year. it is a good measure with a concrete result, but above all it is also an action which puts us face to face with the facts and the problem. over 80% of the litter found on our beaches is indeed plastic, and about half of it comes from disposable products. if we don't do something, by 2050, there will be more plastic in the ocean than fish. with an ambitious package of tailor-made measures, we want to turn the tide and keep trash out of our seas and oceans. plastic is a valuable material, but we're very sloppy with it. we need to make a full commitment to sustainable and responsible management of plastics throughout the value chain. that's not only good for the environment, but it's also good for the economy and for the climate, because we're avoiding carbon emissions. for every ton of plastic we recycle, we take a car off the road. it is also essential that producers should now contribute to the disposal of waste. 90% of plastic beverage bottles must be collected separately and we are also resolutely joining the fight with plastic cigarette filters. i would like to thank mr ries and the other members of our negotiating team, including the commissioners, for their appreciated support and for the good result.
president. - mr president, i should like to thank mrs ries for the excellent result. as the negotiator for the liberals in the econ committee, i too have a close interest in this matter. from the beginning, there were divided opinions on how to address the plastics problem. personally, i still firmly believe that the problem is not the plastics themselves, but the way we deal with them. stopping single use, encouraging reuse and recycling should ensure that no more plastics end up in our environment. but the real solution, of course, is in research and innovation, the search for materials that are truly environmentally friendly. whatever my view or yours, one thing is certain: the european citizen is asking for urgent action and this directive is responding to that. i therefore call on my colleagues to adopt this directive and to join in the cleanup of the plastic soup.
i'm the reporter. madam president, indeed, together. that is the key word for this debate, to thank all my colleagues who have all supported the impetus of this report with two exceptions, my brexit colleagues who, it seems to me, would do better to mourn here the jobs lost because of their initiative, but that is another debate. to conclude this one, i would like to quote john fitzgerald kennedy in our house. in 1963, in washington, he said: "our problems are man-made and therefore we can solve them. our possibilities know no limits, no human problem is beyond our capabilities. so yes, of course, 'europe is not the main cause of pollution', and i am quoting you, mr timmermans, but it is up to us to be the driving force behind the solution. this is a first step, but we're moving forward. i wanted to wince.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, fertilisers are essential for agriculture, but their use can also have a negative impact on the environment and food safety, especially when contaminants are present in these products. their correct and safe use is therefore essential for sustainable agriculture, food security and environmental protection. the modernisation of the fertilising products regulation is part of the 'circular economy' package, as this legislation aims to put conventional inorganic fertilisers, which generally follow the linear economy model, on a par with organic fertilisers by encouraging the reuse of raw materials currently disposed of as waste. the objectives of sustainability, food security and environmental protection go hand in hand with ensuring that our farmers can afford to buy high quality products throughout europe. these new rules maintain this balance and encourage the development of innovative products that could help farmers achieve better yields. this is therefore a crucial step in the transition to a circular economy within the european union. however, i am not entirely satisfied with the result obtained, particularly with regard to cadmium, even though some efforts have been made. the results of the trilogues are much less ambitious than the negotiating position we voted for here in the plenary. finally, i would like to point out that, because of a blocking minority in the council, it was not possible to maintain the limits we had voted for, even in time, of 40 and 20 milligrams per kilo. however, we have managed to obtain some elements that allow us to accept this agreement as progress with regard to cadmium, including the voluntary low-level labelling, the review clause triggered four years after the date of application, the introduction of national derogations for member states that already apply the lower limit for cadmium and support measures for decadmium. finally, i would like to thank my colleague, mr ţurcanu, although it has not always been easy to work with him, and the other rapporteur colleagues, mrs gardini, mrs thomas and mr wałęsa, for the excellent cooperation that has prevailed on this dossier.
madam president, despite the quality of the work done by our rapporteur, mr maňka, whom i congratulate, and our fictitious rapporteurs, and in particular our colleague, anneli jäätteenmäki, i do not hide my perplexity at the agreement reached between the committee on budgets and the bureau. of course, i note the reduction of €18 million obtained by the committee on budgets compared with the secretary-general's initial proposal endorsed by the bureau. personally, i think that this reduction is not sufficient. the percentage increase in parliament's budget should, in my view, be aligned with the rate of inflation, without taking into account the weighting of wages, new needs, exceptional circumstances. when i see that appropriations for staff salaries are going up by almost 6% next year, i wonder either about the quality of the inflation forecasts or what is hidden from us in this increase. two other points concern me in particular. i am concerned about parliament's intentions to increase its activities and diplomatic presence in a number of countries, notably indonesia and ethiopia. more fundamentally, even though there are embassies of the member states of the european union in these countries and representation, often costly, by the european external action service, i find it difficult to imagine the added value of such establishments for the parliament. i am not enthusiastic, as my colleague mr maňka is, about the proliferation of european centres of experience, the sort of mini-parliamentariums that are being set up in all the countries of the european union. while i recognise that it is imperative to have effective mechanisms in place to inform citizens about the work of parliament and the priorities it defends, i prefer to invest in people rather than in stone, brick or concrete. we invest in journalists, and the returns will be far greater than the multiplication of bricks.
president, this package of legislation regulates the interoperability, or interconnectivity, of eu databases. existing databases, such as the widely used and recently reformed visa information system, as well as databases under development are eligible. a foreigner who has obtained a visa or travelled to europe without a visa, wanted criminals, migrants, convicted persons, etc., will all be found by means of a simple search. border guards will be able to consult several databases simultaneously, compare fingerprints and trace multiple identities of the same person. if the police cannot identify a foreigner, the police will only have to consult one database containing identity data of foreigners. in recent years, the eu has faced an increasing number of irregular migrants entering the eu and a constant threat to internal security, as evidenced by terrorist attacks. the linking of information systems will improve the protection of european borders. this also increases our security and fights illegal migration. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. it should be remembered that it also benefits data protection and quality now that arrangements have been made in this respect. i therefore hope that this parliament will adopt this package of legislation by a large majority and that the member states will then put this package into practice quickly.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioners, today is a day of celebration. for one debate we have two commissioners who talk to each other and listen to nothing, but we are happy to have them. i don't want to spoil my pleasure. if there is one issue that i would like to see resolved during this parliamentary term, it is the issue of interoperability. we have developed and modernised a number of systems in recent years. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the schengen acquis. but these systems are currently not connected to each other, which weakens the efficiency of the data collected and wastes valuable time for users who need to consult them. interoperability introduces four new features which i support. i support the creation of the new european search portal through which police officers on the ground and border guards will be able to check all information systems related to justice, security and external border control simultaneously, instead of having to consult them separately as is the case at present. i support the multiple identity detector, which will enable the eu authorities to detect identity fraud and avoid blind spots, where people are registered under different names in different databases and thus escape their real identity. i welcome the creation of the common identity data repository which will greatly facilitate the identification of third-country nationals present on the territory of the union. finally, i welcome the creation of the shared biometric matching service. i also want to remind you, because it is important, that no additional data on individuals will be collected because of interoperability and that all data protection rules in place for each system will continue to apply. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate our two colleagues, jeroen lenaers and nuno melo, on the quality of their work and assure them of the alde group's support for the adoption of these two regulations. mr president, if this were to be my last time speaking before this house, i would be glad to have done so on this matter.
the european parliament will vote tomorrow on a major recommendation on the european peace facility, a new budgetary fund outside the european budget worth €10.5 billion for the period 2021-2027. the european peace facility is a new financing instrument which will enable the european union to finance activities with military or defence implications in a more efficient and flexible way. how can i? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so far, only a limited share of the common costs of military operations could be financed by the eu, we could only provide limited assistance to military activities if it was linked to strict development objectives, and support for partner military peacekeeping operations was effectively limited to african-led operations through the african peace facility. the european peace facility will change all this. firstly, we will ensure a high degree of solidarity among the member states by better burden-sharing. the european peace facility will replace the athena mechanism and finance a larger share of common costs of operations, up to 45%. this will naturally encourage member states to participate more readily in operations. because of course, if you can share more common costs, there are fewer own costs left. secondly, it will also contribute to peace support operations of international organisations or third countries, no longer limited to africa. we'll have a much wider base of support. thirdly - and this is a very important point - we will also be able to contribute to the building up of the military and defence capabilities of third countries, let us not forget their equipment. i'll give you one concrete example. for example, we do eu training missions in somalia, so we can train the military very well. but if they have no shoes, no equipment, no bulletproof vests, what is the point of our training? the peace fund will now be able to help with the purchase of, for example, bulletproof vests and footwear, so that the well-trained military can also be deployed. finally, there is also a flexibility clause to finance other operational union action in the framework of the common foreign and security policy with military or defence implications. the european peace facility is an additional budgetary fund, which means, of course, to me that participation and control by this house are important. and that is why we also ask to be informed and consulted in sufficient and timely fashion so that we can take account of every point of view. we therefore also ask for guarantees that no activities are financed which violate the fundamental principles laid down in article 21 of the eu treaty or are used to violate international law and human rights. and of course we must ensure that the instrument is complementary to other external policy instruments. we have so often complained, we have heard it so often here, that europe is unable to act, or acts too late, that europe lacks the will to act. well, our security environment is becoming more complex, more volatile, more unpredictable and ambiguous than ever before. the european union must then have the necessary instruments to promote peace, prevent conflict and strengthen international security, and of course to be able to fulfil its role as a global player in the field of security. the european security facility is a missing link. i would therefore ask you with all my heart to approve this recommendation. i also want to thank all my fellow shadow reporters for their hard work. this was a not very obvious debate, but i think we have brought it to a good conclusion and i hope, of course, that it will have broad support tomorrow.
- i'm the reporter. mr president, i have heard the words peace, peace and security very often here. unfortunately, these are notions that are unknown to many people in the world today. of course, we have war situations in every corner. that is why the peace facility is so important, that flexible instrument which enables us to make our external action more efficient, to support our partners in operations, to share costs. i have heard a lot of arguments here that were not really relevant. i think this is the instrument that europe really needs if we are to be more efficient. that is what the citizens ask of us. because so far our policy has often been external. we can bark, but we can't bite. we can train them, but we can't deploy them. with this instrument, i believe we can change the reality on the ground and bring about more peace. i hope that this will be voted on tomorrow.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. in the cultural field, theatres and dance schools could receive grants to set up a project with their counterparts in other european countries. as regards media, flemish distributors can receive subsidies to bring foreign films to flanders and vice versa. but it is not the intention of the european union to interfere in local cultural policy or in national cultural policy, and i am therefore pleased that parliament has placed emphasis in the text on projects with european added value, so that crossborder projects and cooperation across national borders are supported in the first place. what i do not support is the doubling of the current budget to 3 billion, which we really cannot justify today.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. erasmus is europe and what europe should be. but i have a question for the commissioner and for the commission: in future, let us extend erasmus to include an erasmus med. the aim is to allow doctors who have already graduated and are in a specialisation phase to participate in an erasmus programme in order to then be able to do an internship in a specialised centre in another member state, thus closing the gap we now have in public health between the different member states by transferring best practices from other member states to all member states. we must also involve the nurses, the nurses who are already working, because not only is an operation important at that moment, but also the care afterwards is decisive for the patient's chances of success.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, mr eickhout and ms pietikäinen, for taking on this file last year. i would like to thank you for your strong will and ambition, ensuring that the european parliament could form its views quickly and effectively, which has led to this vote today. as you know, this file has raised some heated discussions between the committees, but this is why i welcome even more a strong commitment from the european parliament to adopt this text. it will improve the ability of the financial sector to take part in the fight against climate change. it will deepen the single market for green financial services, and it will protect eu consumers from greenwashed financial products. you already know that in order to boost sustainable investment, we need a shared understanding of what sustainability entails. this is why creating an eu taxonomy is a cornerstone for our strategy. it fills an important gap because it establishes a common understanding of which economic activities can help reach climate and other environmental objectives. we heard time and again at the conference on a global approach to sustainable finance last thursday, at which high-level representatives from many countries outside the eu, including china, japan, india, morocco and hong kong, were present, that in order to scale up sustainable investment, we need to start by having a common taxonomy. the high-level representatives are looking to the eu for that. once complete, this taxonomy will help us develop labels for sustainable financial products or funds. it will support disclosure and reporting by financial institutions and companies on climate and environmental activities or risks and it will support standardisation, which is also necessary and called for by many jurisdictions. for example, if asset managers and institutional investors disclose how they have used the taxonomy in the design of their green products, this will help end investors compare products on how green they are. the taxonomy will also be one of the key elements in the upcoming eu green bond standard. finally, since financial markets are global, the eu will promote international convergence and alignment of those crucial tools to the extent possible. in practice, the taxonomy and its applications will have many advantages for companies and investors. companies and project promoters will be better able to raise private capital to finance their sustainable activities. european companies will have a clear standard of what qualifies as sustainable for the purposes of raising finance. polluting sectors will be encouraged to move onto more sustainable pathways by including activities that contribute to a reduction of emissions. the taxonomy will help them attract capital to finance this transition and financial companies looking to finance sustainable projects often say that there are too few investable projects and it’s too hard to search them out. the taxonomy will clarify this and help investors identify bankable and viable green projects, and it will also protect consumers from greenwashed products by providing clarity to end investors who are interested in sustainable investment, but currently have little information about what is sold to them. i believe that our european sustainable finance strategy can be a game changer, both for us and for other jurisdictions. by harmonising the way we classify sustainable investments, we can and will continue to be a front runner on sustainable finance globally. we will start with climate impact and then look at sustainability more broadly with a step-by-step approach. honourable members, right now we are at an historic juncture. we have one decade to mitigate the worst impact of climate change on our citizens, businesses and planet as a whole. climate-focused policies are no longer optional but necessary, and we are refocusing our policies in this way across many sectors. so let us not miss this opportunity to ensure the financial sector is fully behind this shift and fully contributes towards a climate neutral economy.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. indeed, many banks and financial institutions are already doing this, and consumers are always looking for more environmentally friendly financial products, but often they don't see the forest for the trees. that is why this framework we are going to adopt here today is important. the legislation we are about to adopt creates a clear framework for what investments can be labelled as sustainable, as environmentally friendly, as climate friendly. and that can only happen if we make a clear contribution to environmental and climate goals without doing harm at the same time. we all know that in the coming years very large investments will have to be made to get to a climate-friendly environment: in the steel industry, in the chemical industry, in the cement industry, you name it. also in renewable energy, energy efficiency. this legislation provides clear and justified support for investment in clean and sustainable technology. this is indeed a major step forward which can and will bring about a revolution in the financial world. you have rightly spoken, mr vice-president, of a game-changer. i think that's clear. not all ambition, mr eickhout, is in this text, but sometimes it is also good not to overload the boat, because that sometimes brings misery. so a game changer and a major step forward. there will undoubtedly be further steps. there's no going back. the financial world is also definitely on the path to a climate-friendly future.
president. - mr president, today is a historic day. in a few years, we'll look back on this vote and say, that was the day when the european parliament laid the foundations for a sustainable future. that was the day europe took the lead, and set the standard that the rest of the world is striving for today. after more than a year of negotiations, i am convinced that there is a majority today in favour of a progressive and balanced text, a text which asks and answers the question: what is sustainability? an answer that the financial world desperately needs to make sustainable products. financial products that will soon be available for you, for me and for every other european to buy. of course, we can continue in the future. i invite the commission to further examine how we can determine when an activity is not sustainable or to examine concepts of social sustainability. but let's start with what we've accomplished today, and that's not a finger-pointing story, but a positive story, an inclusive story in which we exclude no one and invite every industry, every business to make the transition to a sustainable future. the future of our children and grandchildren.
president, the greens and the socialists want us to pump lots of money into europe to save it from climate breakdown and they know very well where they are going to get that money: with the taxpayer, out of your pockets. more government spending, more taxes, for us, that's not an option. we want to invest heavily in renewable energy, we want to invest heavily in nature, in the fight against pollution, but we're going to do it in a much more efficient way. the energy transition and the ecological transition will have to be largely privately funded, and that is why we are starting here, in the private sector, by making it clear to investors and investors, by clearly defining what ecologically sustainable really means, so that they can make an informed choice. and that's how we're going to guide billions of people into a green economy. because what gets a green label has to be really green. no green washing, we'll take care of that here. it's a good first step in the green direction for a conscious and sustainable investor and investor.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first of all, i want to say to ms foster that i’m not a big fan of jeremy corbyn, but saying that it is jeremy corbyn who is the problem here – well, everybody knows that the problem is the division inside the conservative party. (applause)that is the problem. everybody knows that and, moreover, we are all following every day the voting inside the house of commons. i can tell you that the sessions of the house of commons have become more popular in europe even than the matches in the premier league. the only difference is – well, i can tell you – it’s always a draw there in the house of commons, while there are more goals scored, fortunately, i should say, mainly by some players, in the premier league. so let’s be very sincere with each other. let’s hope that these cross-party negotiations that start today give a solution in the coming days. we, from all sides, have said it, we are open to change the political declaration to make that possible – customs union, free trade arrangement, a common market 2.0, maybe something else – we are open to do so. but it has been done before 12 april, and before 12 april, ms foster, there has to be a meaningful vote in the house of commons, so that we have a basis to do so. secondly, we also need a roadmap so that we can be sure that everything is implemented in the secondary legislation in britain by and before 22 may. my last remark that i want to make: i know that a number of colleagues are thinking, ‘ah, maybe a long extension’. don’t be under any illusions. the fact that we should create a situation where britain is with one foot inside the union and with one foot outside the union is a tragedy. it is bad for the european union. can you imagine a little bit the new prime minister of great britain, mr johnson or mr gove, both the architects of the brexit disaster, having the keys in their hands to the future of the european union? i cannot think about that happening. it will be a disaster for the european union and it’s not the way to go forward. finally i think – and that is what my colleague mr gualtieri said – the only advantage of brexit, mr gualtieri, is in fact the following: people can see for themselves now what it means when populists and nationalists take power in a country and make an image of a country and a future that does not exist in that country. (applause) it’s a good lesson for the european elections.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president: no. three times ‘no’ to the withdrawal agreement. ‘no’ to a no-deal brexit. ‘no’ to an outright revocation of brexit. ‘no’ to a customs union. ‘no’ to participation in the single market. ‘no’ to the jurisdiction of the european court of justice. ‘no’ to the free circulation of people. the house of commons increasingly sounds like monty python’s knights of ni – sorry, knights of no. you might think that, short of the ability or will to make up their minds on what they want, they will hand over the decision to their constituents on that crucial matter that brexit is. but there again, the answer is ‘no’. at this stage, the audience is left wondering whether theresa may will find a shrubbery that will please the knights of no. one might argue that one’s place in history can be secured by saying ‘no’. so it was in 1940 when the united kingdom stood up against nazism. but the fact is that the greatness of the united kingdom has been primarily built on positive choices, such as when the united kingdom decided to be a founding member of the multilateral order we know today: the united nations, nato, world trade organization; that when it decided to join the european union, when it decided to support the enlargement of the european union, this is when the uk was at its best. and so it goes for any great achievement of humankind. the british parliament now has to rise to the challenge and say ‘yes’ to a way forward. theresa may’s strategy of running down the clock has run its course. she waited until the 11th hour to reach out to the main opposition party. we can only guess whether a majority will be found for a future relationship that will include a customs union. but i’d like to remind everyone that this outcome presupposes the ratification of the withdrawal agreement. there is no way round this. neither is there one around the fact that a no-deal brexit is what will happen by default unless a positive alternative can be adopted. but the choice is not just between orderly and disorderly brexit. now that what brexit means is becoming apparent, one can realise it is a negative-sum game for all players involved. let it be known that the door remains open for the uk to remain a full member of the eu. with my british green and european free alliance friends, we believe that the heart of europe is where the united kingdom belongs. on a daily basis, we see the positive contributions that your country has made to the eu and, likewise, millions of uk citizens see the positive contributions the eu has made to their own country. as democrats, we believe that making such a momentous choice for the country should be left to the people. now is the time to put country above party politics.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to welcome you, prime minister löfven, to the european parliament. you will immediately see the difference between the european parliament and the swedish parliament. in the swedish parliament you would never have somebody saying ‘i don’t like sweden’. you have never had that in the swedish parliament. in the european parliament we have that. mr lundgren is a typical example, explaining why he is so bored to be here in europe and why he is against the european union. the only thing is his salary: he doesn’t complain about that. but thank you for your leadership, certainly in the fight against climate change. i want to explore three examples that you have given, to examine with you what is not going well in the european union. there has to be a reason why you’re saying we want a european migration policy and we don’t have a european migration policy or an agreement on dublin. i have here the rapporteur, ms cecilia wikström, the rapporteur for the european parliament. we have an opinion. the council doesn’t have an opinion and therefore we cannot conclude this reform of this migration package, and especially of dublin. the same goes for the other issue. you say ‘the values i will not compromise on’, but the european council is compromising on values every day. this is not an attack on you, it applies to you and your colleagues. the 28, tomorrow the 27, in the european union are compromising all the time. we have two article 7 procedures against two countries, one initiated by the commission against poland, the second initiated by the european parliament against hungary, but the european council has never put that point on the agenda for the council, whereas it is obliged to do so whenever the commission or parliament has taken such action. so it’s not a criticism of you, but when you say you will not compromise – no. the european council – and you are a member of the european council too – compromises every day on this issue and is not capable of dealing with it; it is closing its eyes. and i’m talking about everybody, about all political families and all political parties ….. and the third example that you have given is spotify. you know that it is swedish, i know that it is swedish, but most people outside think that it is american because a number of years ago the headquarters went from stockholm to new york. and you have indicated why. it is because we don’t have a digital single market. we have no one regulator, but 27 or 28 different regulators. what spotify got was problems, obstacles, inside the union. they had to make 130 agreements with 130 mobile operators before launching the fantastic idea of streaming music, which today is something very normal. in the end they had enough. they said ok, weʼll move our headquarters from stockholm to new york because there it is far easier. you have one regulator, the fcc. you have three big operators on mobile. they made an agreement and rolled out the fantastic model and there are a world company today. and then they came back to europe and the other countries to make the same model, working in france, in germany, in italy, in belgium, everywhere in the european union. it’s a good example: spotify is the example of what is not going well in the european union. we don’t have a european union in digital and the reason is very simple. the reason is that there is no one regulator. the reason is that we have 130 mobile operators. why do we have 130 mobile mobile operators? it is because, yes, we have ministers of finance here in the european union who want to keep the money for themselves: spectrum selling – 3g, 4g, tomorrow 5g. so if we really want – and this has to be the conclusion, i think, and spotify is a good example – to change something, then we need to do a number of important things: stop unanimity; putting values back on the agenda of the european union; creating and really completing the single market. i have enough of all the documents that are produced on digital single market of the european union, and the reality is that there is only one european in the 20 big internet platforms worldwide. let’s take an example. when ericsson – you remember that, prime minister? – was successful, together with nokia, it was when there were european standards, gsm for mobile. then we were successful, and that is what we need. ok, i agree with every priority that you have mentioned, but we also need to be courageous and say that more european cooperation, european strength, is the only way forward to be successful.
the rapporteur. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the freedom of movement of citizens in a secure european area is one of the fundamental values of the european union. however, we must admit that the current situation is not entirely satisfactory. there are now more than 250 different versions of identity cards and residence permits in circulation in the union, making their recognition difficult in some countries and leading to painful administrative hassles, especially for citizens travelling or settling in a member state other than their own. and many of these documents are very unsecured. some of them do not even have a chip, which facilitates the identity fraud that is frequently found in the heads of terrorists and criminals. we therefore wanted to promote the readability and recognition of identity cards. in the future, there will be a single format for all cards. the same identity data will be included in a specific order. the gender will become optional and, if adopted, will be divided into three categories: m, f and x. the european union will also have a european symbol on the map and the words 'eu citizen' on the residence permits of the more than 15 million union citizens residing in another member state. the regulation specifies that all identity cards must be recognised as such by all member states and that better recognition of temporary identity documents issued in the event of destruction, loss or theft must be introduced. however, legibility is not sufficient to guarantee the full exercise of freedom of movement. it is also necessary to be able to ascertain that the cardholder is indeed the legitimate holder of the card. detecting identity fraud is a security imperative. the security features of identity cards will therefore be strengthened by the mandatory inclusion of a facial image and two fingerprints embedded in a highly secure chip, as is already the case for passports. i would also like to remind you, and i insist on this, that there is no question of replacing national identity cards with a european card. there is no question of requiring member states which do not issue identity cards to issue them. there is no question of creating a european fingerprint database. the regulation in question does not in any way constitute a legal basis for the creation of a national fingerprint database, as some people like to claim, in defiance of the truth. in addition, we have paid particular attention to strengthening the provisions on fundamental rights, the protection of personal data and the liability of the member states. the use of biometric data is therefore strictly limited to duly authorised staff. it is also very clearly stated that, unless national legislation so permits, biometric data is only kept outside the chip until the card is issued, or for a maximum of three months, before being destroyed. in addition, one provision clearly states that member states are responsible for the integrity, authenticity and confidentiality of data, even when using a private company. finally, i want to reassure citizens that they will not have to replace their current identity card immediately, nor will they have to bear additional costs. the new identity cards will be issued within two years of the entry into force of the regulation and it will be another 10 years before the cards currently in circulation will all have to be replaced. i would like to conclude by thanking all those who have helped us with this report: the staff, the staff of the secretariat and in particular my colleagues and the fictitious rapporteurs, for all the constructive discussions we have had in an atmosphere of mutual respect and even friendliness.
mr president, tomorrow we are voting on a very important matter: a regulation to harmonise the security aspects of all our national identity cards. figures show that this is a desperately needed measure. for example, in the last four years, frontex, the european border and coast guard agency, has intercepted some 38 870 forged identity cards. the real number is much higher. we're just making it extraordinarily easy for criminals to do the same. they look for the least secure id card and forge it. this regulation puts an end to that. each national identity card will be equally secured by photograph and fingerprints. and yes, those fingerprints are absolutely necessary. a photo is easy to forge, but fingerprints are unique to each person. in addition, this regulation provides that fingerprints may be consulted only when it is really necessary and that there will be no large european database. as an n-va member, i feel this is a recognition of what my party has already achieved at the national level. belgium already issues identity cards with fingerprints. i hope that we can continue to play this pioneering role in the future.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank the members who took part in this debate. we have resumed in plenary the debates we had in our previous meetings and i would just like to say that i defended with passionate energy the original position of the european parliament. i was not able to obtain satisfaction and i felt it was my duty to reach an agreement with the council, which was on a different line from ours, because the security of our fellow citizens was at stake. today i would like to recall two arguments. i do not understand why some of our colleagues are now objecting to the compulsory inclusion of fingerprints, when we have accepted it and it is not a problem for passports: these fingerprints have been a reality in passports for several years. i take this opportunity to say to our colleague cornelia ernst (to which she replied: no, no, listen, i am not attacking you, i am going to give you a fact) that we have not had any instances of chip hacking in recent years and that the level of chip security is constantly increasing. i would like to add one more thing. i have a tweet from statewatch, an organisation with which you have corresponded, which says that the text that is about to be proposed could be used as a legal basis for the creation of national fingerprint databases. that's not true! that's not true! on the contrary, the text expressly provides that this regulation cannot serve as a legal basis for the creation of fingerprint databases at national level. i therefore ask that in our debate today and in the vote we will take tomorrow we speak about the reality of what has been decided, what it means and what it is worth.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 47% of all road deaths in the european union are among the weakest road users. hard numbers which are primarily a concern of local and regional authorities, but with this directive the european union can and will also contribute to greater security. such as developing quality requirements for infrastructure for pedestrians, cyclists and other vulnerable road users and systematically taking them into account in road safety procedures. this integrated approach is the only way to improve the safety of vulnerable road users structurally and in a lasting way. a high-quality road infrastructure can reduce the risk of road accidents. in as many as 92% of accidents, human error is involved. new technological developments, and in particular digital developments, can better assist drivers and help to make traffic safer for everyone. those systems operate optimally with well-designed, well-maintained, well-detectable road markings and traffic signals. therefore, common specifications for road markings and road signs are necessary. they must lay the foundations for the roll-out of smarter and self-driving cars on our european roads. the european approach is needed here and i welcome the steps taken by this directive. there are no miracle cures that can eliminate all road traffic risks, but it is our duty at all policy levels to do what we can to avoid road traffic deaths. safety first, at all stages of planning, design and use of transport infrastructure.
madam president, as regards the question of pensions, i think that when we talk about pensions in europe today, we should rather talk about the first pillar of pensions, which aims to ensure that everyone can, at the end of their career, enjoy a well-paid pension. to speak today of a private pension pillar, that is to say the third pension pillar, with the idea that this third pension pillar will be able to solve the problem of the first pension pillar, seems to me to be the wrong dynamic. this is all the more so as the recommendations made in the context of the european semester often state that the european commission proposes to member states to reduce their expenditure on pensions under the first pillar. we see that the logical thing would be to transfer to a third pillar, i.e. a private pension. the debate we have today seems to me to be quite special in that our priority should be towards this first pillar. secondly, with regard to the private pension pillar as proposed today, we see that there are a number of difficulties, the main one being that this portability can be done in two member states, while it is described as a pan-european tool. finally, the last point i would like to make is the question of tax evasion, which can be organised by this pension pillar, which is a private pension pillar: it is possible to contribute in one country and receive a pension in another, choosing the country which is the most advantageous from a tax point of view. it seems to me, therefore, that the proposal on the table today does not address the current pension problems in europe and, above all, favours the issue of tax evasion in relation to capitalisation. for that reason, i shall not vote in favour of this proposal.
the commission has already taken action on this. mr. giegold, when you say "little people", i'd like to know who you're talking about. when you earn 1 200 euros a month, do you think you have enough to pay into a pension fund to guarantee your retirement at 65? no, i'm not going. you say there is no tax evasion. we have asked that, in this process, when the pension is recovered by capitalisation, it be taxed in the country where you have contributed, which we have not obtained. so when you withdraw your pension fund, you do so in the country which is the most tax-friendly. so, in my view, your argument is a rich man's argument that doesn't hold water.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i join mrs morin-chartier in thanking the commissioner and the rapporteur for this report. it is true that we are still living in the 21st century with discrimination in our society, and particularly discrimination against women. these women are now discriminated against in employment, in their careers and in terms of their wages. the reasons, i would even say the reason, is simply that we can be mothers. the reason for this discrimination is our ability to be mothers, to bear children. i would even say, not just having children, but possibly having children one day. this is what exposes us to discrimination, this is what the employer considers to be a risk in relation to employment and in relation to the career. nine months of pregnancy would justify today an employment rate lower than the male employment rate, a 16% wage differential, a 30% pension differential. you realize that nine months of your life put you in this situation! well, today we have proposed a solution, which would be to put men and women on an equal footing. it is true that we will not achieve this with a directive alone: 10 days of paternity leave is not the same as maternity leave, but it is a step forward. non-transferable parental leave in the trilogue, we have a non-transferability of two months , it is a step forward. we could go further, especially with regard to pay. i think we'll assess the situation. the five-day leave for carers is a new directive. this is a new right that is open, and we will have to evaluate it. so i thank you, commissioner, for the work that has been done for this step forward, but we will of course have to check carefully the transposition of this directive. this directive is only a floor and therefore any member state which feels more generous in moving towards more equality is, of course, welcome in the fight against discrimination. but we will also have work to do here in this parliament to ensure that this directive is well on its way to combating all the discrimination which is being committed against women in the labour market today.
mr president, a good work-life balance is crucial. we must give everyone, and especially women, every opportunity in the labour market. women still have too many choices between a thriving career and a beautiful family life. but this does not mean that we cannot be critical. i maintain that the member states are still in the best position to respond to the needs of their own citizens. in flanders, for example, there are good arrangements for sick leave, but not exactly five days a year. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. what about the principle of subsidiarity? i also regret that flexibility is seen almost exclusively from the employee's point of view. the employers are getting a lot of trouble, but our smes are already complaining about all kinds of rules. i regret that the directive is adding to the administrative burden.
mr president, i understand what mr marinescu is saying, namely that we have grouped the blocks of amendments according to their authors. that may be true, but i think the blocs are set up in a politically and politically logical way. in other words, the different groups of people who have amended have done so with a holistic view of the text and, of course, amend different articles, but in a logic which is politically coherent. for this reason, i think these blocs are politically coherent and it makes sense to vote for them in this way. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the rapporteur. mr president, as rapporteur, i ask my colleagues to reject the proposal that has just been put forward by the gue. the agreement we are about to vote on is the result of very balanced negotiations with the council and i would like to point out that the adoption of a single amendment would render the agreement concluded with the council null and void, which would be a bad blow for freedom of movement and for the fight against false identities.
it is of course very important that risks in our banking sector are kept under control and that sufficient buffers are created to absorb any setbacks. because that way we don't end up in a scenario like we had ten years ago, when a crisis in the financial sector plunged the entire economy into a deep recession. we are satisfied with the reforms, even if we were to accept a more stringent application of international agreements. the main problem, however, is not the new regulation and supervision, but the mountain of bad debts that in some countries has not been cleared after ten years. there's work to be done. start now, or else those debts will hang over this generation and the generations to come.
on behalf of the group of the european right mr president, i too find it very difficult to speak here with notre dame in flames. this happens to all of us. it is a historical disaster, a cultural disaster for all of europe. now here's a proposal to make our financial system more secure. it is, of course, true that banks are too closely linked to their governments. but we are not going to solve that problem with complex, synthetic financial products that only increase the financial stability of the eurozone. because that's kind of the trick they used in the united states: repackaging junk mortgages with good products, and spreading them. it was thought that the risks were eliminated. that is a very big mistake. the lack of transparency and the high correlation between these different markets would increase the risk of cross-border contagion in times of crisis. there is a great danger of a chain reaction in the event of a crisis and better measures are needed to improve our banking system.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, first of all, like my colleagues and like president tusk and president juncker, i would like to express my sorrow at the serious fire that took place last night in paris. i'm sure that together we will bring back notre dame de paris. i am sure that notre dame de paris, which is notre dame de france, notre dame de l'europe, will shine again, even more beautiful than in the past. i know that this parliament has, in fact, no say in the decision you took on wednesday, but nevertheless, i want to warn you of one thing and that is the consequences of the decision of last week, because, until now, we have kept the unity in the european union the unity among the 27 member states, but also the unity between the three institutions, the council, the parliament and the commission, and unity built around our negotiator, i want to recall that here today, mr michel barnier, whom i want to applaud here for all the work he has done. (applause) this unity, in my opinion, mr tusk, i have to tell you that very frankly, is at risk now. instead of sending mrs may back to london with no extension at all, or maybe with an ultimately very short one a few days, a week you gave her six months. but six months on, everybody knows that 31 october is in fact too near for a substantial rethink of brexit, and at the same time, too far away to prompt any action. that's the problem with the decision that has been taken. i would not go as far as mr coburn here who would call it rubbish and because he calls everything rubbish in parliament, but i fear that it will continue the uncertainty. i fear that it will prolong indecision, and i fear most of all that it will import the brexit mess into the european union. and, moreover, that it will poison the upcoming european election. moreover, my fear is that it will make it out of this parliament that we say that in dutch, i don't know if you have that expression, a pigeon house a dovecoat the british members flying in, the british members flying out, and at the same time, waiting on the substitute benches, a number of members of 14 other european countries. banksy, colleagues, has already done a work on this. he painted the house in westminster as a house full of monkeys. he could be inspired to maybe make a second work, to paint this hemicycle in strasbourg full of pigeons. my fear, mr tusk, is that, with this decision, the pressure to come to a cross-party agreement, as mr kamall has spoken about, disappears, as we (inaudible) the last days and that both parties, conservatives and labour, will again do what they did already for months run down the clock and the proof of this is, was that the first decision the house of commons have taken after your decision was to go on holiday. so really and i never thought i should say that in my life here in this parliament but maybe the only thing that can save us now is nigel farage. why? why? as you will hear today, he's already campaigning. he's already rallying with a new party, the brexit party, catching up with the conservatives in the polls and the old parties, labour and the conservatives risk being wiped out during the european election. my advice to you mr. corbett is that, if they're not stupid, both parties should make a cross-party deal now, immediately, in the coming days, to avoid this imminent disaster. finally, mr tusk, in the aftermath of the decision, you said something and you repeated it a few moments ago, you said we may avoid britain leaving the eu, and i am against brexit and leaving the eu, but it is not our decision. it was a decision of the british people. so what my fear is that instead of killing brexit, the decision could risk killing europe. at least bogging it down again for years, putting our energy into negotiations with british leaders like mr corbyn or mr johnson, who, in fact, in their hearts despise europe, and this at the moment when we need all our energy, to put all our energy into the reform, in the renewal of our european union. that is what we, and you also, should solely focus on as president of the european council. and that spirit was, in my opinion, absent last week, wednesday.
the committee on women's rights and gender equality has adopted a report on the situation in the european union. madam president, madam commissioner, today in europe more than four million people are working under contracts covering them for less than eight hours a week. 1.6 million have a fixedterm contract of less than one month. six million are part-time, unselected. and, of all these people, women are ultimately the most vulnerable to precarious employment. unfortunately, this trend is growing: the jobs that have been created since the 2008 crisis are often, too often, precarious, poorly paid, poorly protected jobs that give these workers no prospects. these workers are unable to plan for the medium term, unable to obtain a bank loan, unable to organise their lives, quite simply. the text we are adopting today is probably intended to improve the situation, to guarantee better protection and, above all, greater transparency and more information in employment contracts in europe. this is of course an advance, commissioner, as you said. but it is regrettable that the member states have excluded from the directive contracts of less than 12 hours a month. it is regrettable that the member states have been unable to agree on a straightforward ban on zero-hour contracts. i would therefore say that europe has made a breakthrough. however, as we have said, this is a minimum directive; the member states will have to be more ambitious in protecting workers if we want these workers to join the european idea.
mr president, unfair competition in the workplace between domestic and foreign colleagues is something that people often talk to me about. cross-border social fraud affects our citizens every day. but we know exactly what to do. the gaps in the legislation are very clear. the problem is that the member states lack the will to do anything about control. the unfortunate result is that support for the european single market is melting away, just when we need that single market more than ever. in my region, west flanders, companies are begging for labour and those willing to work are welcomed with open arms. labour mobility supports economic growth and thus prosperity. but labour mobility can only be sustainable if it is conducted in a fair way. and there he goes. many citizens feel that the cowboys in the various sectors get away with fraud every time. those who color outside the lines are not punished. the creation of the european labour authority will have to change this. the best remedy to eradicate fraud is the rapid and accurate exchange of data between member states. at the beginning of this term we were promised a social triple a. the european labour authority is a part of the building of a union where the social aspect is back at the forefront, not least thanks to commissioner thyssen. concrete steps like these can help to dispel frustrations among our citizens and also boost the credibility of the european project. i hope many more will follow.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. president, madam high representative, i am very worried. i am concerned about the situation in israel. because i think we're getting more and more signals that israel is leaving the two-state solution behind. prime minister netanyahu actually wants to extend israel's sovereignty and annex the west bank. i think we are at a very critical juncture. the peace process is being unilaterally reversed, in my view. and whereas in the past you could say that the united states of america was part of the international solution, i now feel that they are increasingly accepting the violations of international law or perhaps even committing them themselves. i would therefore ask you, madam high representative, to make our position clearer, louder and more clearly heard. we have voted on a number of resolutions here. it 's very clear: we are voting for the two-state solution with the borders established in 1967, where israel and palestine can live side by side in peace. actually, we're waiting for a position from the trump administration, which we think is going to come up with a new plan. yesterday, 37 heads of state and government sent you an open letter. i think this is an important signal. a very important signal from europe, asking you very clearly: let our voices be heard. let us say even more clearly as europe that there is only one solution. there is only one solution to the conflict and that is the two-state solution. i ask you to respond to this open letter.
madam president, madam high representative, it is true that european foreign policy has never been so far removed from american policy as it is today. this is the case with the middle east, but not only. for example, the united states has disassociated itself from the iran deal that you supported, it has also disassociated itself from the cop 21, and when it comes to israel, of course, the united states supports the most extreme part of the israeli government, especially by deciding to move its embassy to jerusalem as its capital. and now, with the united states recognizing israel's sovereignty over the golan, the white house is sending in international law and un resolutions. the commission, supported by the council, confirmed yesterday that it was prepared to continue its trade negotiations with the united states, which i regard as a rogue state and which is thus flouting all current multilateralism. so what do you do? you, madam high representative, have used everything in your power, politics, diplomacy. but i think there are two tools which have not been activated: trade agreements and association agreements. only by means of sanctions will these countries, these states, be able to react tomorrow and finally meet your wish, which is the two-state solution. this solution is today farther and farther away from the israeli policy of annexation, but also farther away from the palestinians who have lost all hope. i think europe must take up the torch and be able to defend this two-state solution. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. frankly, dear mr preda, dear dan, the united states has not waited for the european left to flout international law. when mr. trump decides to put tariffs on aluminum to ban the export of aluminum to the united states for security reasons, international law is flouted, agreements are flouted. when the united states recognizes the golan as being under israeli sovereignty, agreements are flouted. so we cannot say that it is the european left that is fuelling the bad relationship between the united states and the europeans. excuse me, but if you want to flatter mr. trump, that's your choice, not the choice of the european left!
president. - we have already discussed the ninth framework programme in detail. there's a crucial vote on the agenda tomorrow. if we pass the first reading of horizon europe, we will ensure continuity for the scientists and innovative entrepreneurs in europe. i should like to take this opportunity to point out how unique this vote is. we have achieved the unthinkable in parliament, together with the council and the commission, and we have reached agreement in the trialogue. whereas horizon 2020 took 18 months to negotiate, horizon europe took only four months. i attribute this to the constructive cooperation and understanding that existed between the three institutions. i would therefore like to express my special thanks to commissioner carlos moedas and his whole team for assisting us in these negotiations. i would also like to thank the negotiators of the romanian presidency. the romanian presidency is a strong example of how the smaller states play an important role in europe. in the interests of the european citizen, in the interests of the future of research and innovation, i want to continue to call for 120 billion euros in the next parliamentary term. but in the meantime, i call on all of you to approve this important agreement.
i would like to stress in this speech that i remain sceptical about the possible positive impact of this proposal on the patient and the pharmaceutical industry. i believe that the patient's interest is at the heart of the legislation. and as a cancer survivor, the patient remains the blue thread through my career. i would ask the commission to monitor this new measure and to reconsider it if necessary. the patents that the pharmaceutical industry has received are not just there. this is a reward for the years of work the company put into it before a new drug can be brought to market. i am talking about compensation, where i should perhaps speak of insurance. the investment that companies make in new drugs is enormous. for example, to find a new antibiotic, only one molecule in ten thousand will lead to a successful drug. but you're going to have to study and develop the other 9,999 molecules to some extent. in order to safeguard the innovation so necessary to bring new medicines to the patient, we must be cautious about patents and intellectual property protection. i therefore ask you not to be blind to the possible consequences for the sector.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the social inspectorates of all the member states must be able to cooperate much more smoothly and effectively. in addition, there must be a minimum number of days worked before foreign workers can claim our unemployment benefits. it is perfectly logical that non-belgian workers must have sufficiently contributed to belgian social security before they are entitled to unemployment benefits. i therefore remain in favour of the commission's proposal that at least three months' work be required before benefit can be claimed. six months of work requirement would be even better. but the opposite is true: the left would like to limit the work requirement to one day, which is your sheer insanity. you're undermining the foundation of our social security. the left also wants to allow job seekers to take their unemployment benefits with them when they move back to their home country. but this makes the control of activation completely impossible. this is a form of abuse. statistics show that a significant number of people who return to their own country do not find work within three months. why would they be looking? with belgian unemployment benefits one can live very comfortably in an eastern european country! flanders is an export-oriented economy, but our social security is not an export product! in other words: no benefits without contributions!
president. - mr president, i am not going to go into the details of the debate. we have already tackled the rules on secondment, which now enshrines the principle of equal pay for equal work in the same place. we have also worked on the social pillar and work-life balance before. europe is finally showing its social face. the coordination of social security systems must be the crown of the workplace. but what we're seeing is that actually a technical file has quickly become an explosive file in the media. the report shall specify which country is responsible for the payment of benefits in each case. in many cases, people used to fall between the cracks of the social safety net. for example, if you were a belgian, you could have done your best in germany for 20 years and then found that you could not count on unemployment benefits in either belgium or germany. that's all in the past. i'll remember that tomorrow. i am doing so because of a specific belgian situation. i cannot accept the arrangement whereby unemployment benefits are paid for up to one month only. i was more in agreement with commissioner thyssen's proposal. because just one month of work doesn't create a bond with the labor market. that said, in my country, it is specifically about 179 people, mainly dutch and french, in the year 2017. soon there will be calls about prosperity tourism. that is a deliberate misrepresentation of the facts. i'm just gonna say that again.
madam president, fundamental freedoms, including freedom of movement, are accompanied by rules, which, in the case of workers' mobility, are social protection rules, because europe is a europe of social protection, but also rules of non-unfair competition. the revision of the coordination of social security systems, as proposed in my colleague mr balas' report, is in line with this. it is certainly not perfect, but it has the merit of making clear proposals to improve the situation of workers' rights within the union and to combat fraud, which is a sport played, ladies and gentlemen, not by the unemployed who would go and take the pill in the sun, but by unscrupulous companies who recruit unprotected workers today in europe. it is therefore against this unfair competition which is undermining social security systems that we must fight and we must therefore support this proposal in order to confirm a european position of the european parliament, and not to support the national or even nationalist positions of certain member states.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, prime minister krišjānis kariņš, welcome back to a parliament you know very well indeed. we’ve not always been of one mind on economic affairs, but i have always been very impressed by the strength of your commitment to our common european project, and again today was a testament to that. and actually you are quite typical of that commitment that you find in the baltic republics. i believe that the three baltics and the benelux countries should cooperate much more deeply, because if they can find agreement between them, i think they could be bridge-builders and foster unity in europe maybe better than the franco-german duo, which seems to be a bit at odds at the moment. i liked very much your speech. i liked you reminding us that the european union is a peace project solving differences through dialogue rather than sheer force. this is not just a justification for the past century. it is today’s justification for the european project. i liked very much the metaphor of the bundle. like you, i come from a small country, but even big countries in europe, as you said, are actually small as a yardstick globally. i liked very much also what you said about the single market. the single market is the ultimate free trade agreement. but it is very specific, because unlike all other free trade agreements, it is governed by democratic institutions: the european parliament, the european council. you don’t find that elsewhere in other free trade deals. i liked also very much the fact that you were upfront about money laundering, and i think that you found the right words, and we like to hear them, because i know that your commitment on that is very strong. however, i’d like also to beg to disagree, not necessarily with what you said, but with a number of positions and actions of the latvian government. first, for us greens the european project must resolutely choose to be a leader: the engine of the ecological transition of our societies. if we can’t make them fit within the boundaries that nature sets us, it’s the survival of humankind that is at stake. it’s also a matter of leadership: if we europeans don’t lead in that transition, others will, and we will be left with buying their solutions rather than providing ours to the rest of the world. one case in point, and you mentioned it, is agriculture. the common agricultural policy is the eu’s largest budget. we should make sure every euro-cent spent on it is used and contributes to the transformation of our agricultural model so that it reduces co2 emissions and restores biodiversity and the quality of our soil. arguably, the cap predominantly promotes a productivist model that goes against these goals – and your government supports it – and actually you find it already too green for your taste. i understand that your country – and i agree with that – wants its fair share of the cap. we are convinced, though, that the best chance of achieving that target is actually to fight for a greener cap that moves away from the productivist model and to industrial farming. the second aspect relates to citizenship. you mentioned the european values, and actually if you read article 2, the first value that is mentioned there is human dignity. human dignity cannot be divided: it is for all, present and to come. latvia’s history as an unwilling part of the soviet union has resulted in a significant part of your citizenship originating from former soviet republics. while we understand that the wounds of the past cannot be ignored, we believe that, as a member of the eu, latvia is strong enough not to keep more than 10% of its population stateless. similarly, we believe that your country could and should do more to promote minority rights and fight discrimination, especially when it comes to age, disability or sexual orientation. thirdly, we have welcomed – and again, today you managed to avoid this – the fact that all three baltic republics have avoided the toxic grandstanding that we have seen on the topic of asylum and migration. i really appreciated your words on that. however, recently your government opposed any binding relocation scheme – which is actually the only way to organise european solidarity. it has also refused to sign the un global migration compact, which, contrary to the allegations of the national populists, is simply providing guidelines as to how to handle this challenge. you and i know that it is not legally binding and that it is grounded in values of state sovereignty, responsibility-sharing, non-discrimination and human rights, and it recognise that only a cooperative approach will allow us to meet this challenge. latvia’s signature should be on that document. with the european elections now upon us, this is the last debate on the future of europe in this european parliament. count on us to relentlessly defend the first-ever attempt at building a transnational democracy. but equally, count on us to make it work for everyone, by putting human dignity rather than short-term economic profits at the front and in the centre. a more just, more sustainable, more free and democratic europe is what our citizens want. we will ask that they trust us to deliver just that.
thank you, mr kariņš. after your powerful speech, i believe more than ever in the power of small, well-performing democratic nations. small is beautiful. after a long period of domination by strong neighbours, latvia has exercised its right to self-determination and has made a great success of it. but at the same time we see that the european union today has difficulty in exercising that right. nations like scotland and catalonia are seeking self-determination in a democratic and non-violent way, but that quest is dismissed as terribly dangerous. there will be no condemnation of the brutal violence against voters in catalonia, nor of the unparalleled repression of their political leaders. that's a little bit of a stretch. citizens will only continue to support the eu project if they see their fundamental democratic rights guaranteed and defended. hence my call, my request, my plea to be big as a small country and not to want to talk about what is crooked. we're counting on you.
president, ladies and gentlemen, we have always supported frontex. the first time was in 2016, when frontex was also given the task of helping to return people who had been processed here. frontex then facilitates the safe return of these people by, for example, chartering a flight. today we are backing frontex again. because what's on the table is a step in the right direction for us. frontex plays a very important role in the implementation of our migration policy. our schengen area without internal borders can only exist if we have strong external borders. frontex will take care of it. with more manpower and resources, it will be better able to meet future challenges. it is positive that frontex can now also become active in non-european countries that are not neighbours of the union. but not allowing frontex to assist in the return of individuals who have been processed in non-eu countries, such as morocco, to another non-european country, such as niger, is a missed opportunity. - that's too bad.
the aim of this reform of the visa code was to make it easier to apply for tourist or business visas. that is important for our economy and also for our tourism sector. but the socialists blocked it for a long time because they were determined to introduce the possibility of issuing humanitarian visas to refugees through our consulates anywhere in the world. now that that obstacle has finally been removed, we can vote on this proposal on the verge of failure. in practice, applications and interviews can now be made via the internet. this will make it even easier for tourists and businessmen to travel to the schengen area. visa fees will be lower and some supporting documents will no longer be required. people will also be able to apply for visas with longer durations if they have used previous visas correctly. at the same time, the eu can use these very advantages as a bargaining chip. if countries do not cooperate in taking back illegal migrants, their citizens will lose those benefits. their citizens will have to wait longer for a decision and pay more for it. this is true even if those countries refuse to cooperate in practical matters, such as identification and issuing papers. it is also important that eu countries at these external borders can no longer issue day-visas to day-trippers. back doors that weaken our external borders must be closed! ladies and gentlemen, this was my last speech in this house. i want to wish everyone the best for the future. thank you for your cooperation.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, 60 million, that is to say almost 60 million people come from abroad every year to visit the countries of the european union. some come from countries such as the united states, australia or canada and are exempt from the visa requirement. in addition, nationals of 105 countries, mainly from africa, asia and latin america, must have a visa to enter the schengen area. the reform of the visa code, which we are about to approve, i hope, is for them. the basic objective is to facilitate tourism and business travel for people of good faith, while preventing as much as possible risks to internal security and migration risk. the agreement we have reached with the council is a good agreement. a visa will be available in less than 15 days and can be applied for six months in advance, instead of the current three months. multiple entry visas will be valid for up to five years and will be issued according to rules common to all member states, which is not the case at present. the visa fee, which has not changed for more than 10 years, will be increased, except in special cases, from eur 60 to eur 80 for adults, but it will remain far below the eur 133 requested by the united states and the eur 125 requested by china. europe is not only more attractive, it is also, it must be said, cheaper. finally, we have managed to reach agreement with the council on the particularly sensitive point of the link to be established between the country of origin and the acceptance of return visas for persons who have not been authorised to remain on european territory. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to thank our rapporteur, juan fernando lópez aguilar, for his commitment to this issue. congratulations, juan. i'm going to see you. i would like to thank our colleagues for the quality of our exchanges, in particular mr becker and mrs vergiat, with whom the exchanges were lively but always cordial. thank you to our staff for the wonderful work they have done. i will conclude, mr president. i've been in this assembly for 30 years. this is my last speech and i have only one word to say: there is no better political project than to achieve the european dream. the european union is a great example of this.
madam president, it is a pleasure to see you preside over the last vote of this parliament... (exclamation) i have to go. oh, my god! there's still tomorrow, that's right! i'll be there, rest assured, i didn't mean to dry up a voting session. i think i only wore one and that was when i had my back operated. madam president, if i may, i would like to address mr cañete as the representative of the commission. several months ago, this parliament alerted the commission, the guardian of the treaties, to a potential conflict of interest involving a sitting prime minister of the european union, in this case the czech prime minister. on monday, commissioner oettinger was heard by the committee on budgetary control and what he basically told us was that there was indeed apparently a conflict of interest, but that we still had to dig deeper, that we were not sure and that we had to continue working. we now see that the czech police authorities are implicitly and personally implicating the czech prime minister. and the european commission is always asking questions! i am not sure that the commissioner has any political motives for postponing the work of investigation which we have asked it to do in its role as guardian of the treaties. we believe that when anti-european sentiment is growing, precisely because political representatives are suspected of enriching themselves illegally, it is the duty of the european commission to remove all suspicion as quickly as possible. i see that this is not the case today.
president. - tomorrow afternoon is the last plenary vote of this part-session. once again, we have the opportunity to vote on concrete measures to combat climate change. co2 emissions from heavy goods vehicles account for 6% of total emissions in the european union and a quarter of road transport emissions. these emissions are still rising, including in my own country, flanders. if we are to meet our climate commitments effectively, we must also green the truck fleet. the technology is available. it is crucial that for the first time a co2 reduction standard for lorries is introduced. the promotion of low- and zero-emission trucks is also important. that is why my party, the n-va, supports the final agreement on this new legislation, even though we would have liked the level of ambition to be a little higher. greening the fleet is also essential for better air quality. too many people suffer from poor air quality. too many people are dying prematurely. the standards also save fuel. so that also generates profits for businesses and consumers. finally, ambitious product standardisation is also needed to attract innovation and investment. third countries such as the united states and china are already investing heavily in this. the european union must not be left behind.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the directive. it is a good result and a very important signal. because tomorrow, in the last plenary vote of this parliamentary term, we will have a second chance to vote on very concrete measures to combat climate change and air pollution. public procurement is indeed an important lever for the shift towards low-emission mobility. governments are supposed to set an example. my own government, the flemish government, is also committed to a sustainable purchasing policy. this change is necessary in the light of the fight against climate change, but also to improve the air quality in our cities and towns, especially in my own country. what is also very important for my party, the n-va, is that the agreement opts for technology-neutral solutions: not only battery electric vehicles, but also other solutions, such as hybrid vehicles, lng or hydrogen technology. all these technologies must be harnessed. we need all the options to make the transition to low-emission mobility.
in flanders, smes are the stronghold of the economy. they provide employment and prosperity for many thousands of families. they therefore deserve to be supported in their drive towards digitisation. the member states should therefore focus on the digitalisation of company law, especially in view of the competition in the eu through the freedom of establishment. because companies are so expensive, there is a healthy competition among member states to make them as easy as possible. digitalisation is an important part of this. however, some are very reluctant to do so, as the possibility of setting up a company online could be abused for fraud. but that doesn't seem to be true. because today, physical identity checks are no longer enough to prevent money laundering or to ensure founder liability. there are more than enough other means to guarantee the security of the establishment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the creation of a company should be made quicker and simpler. this would not only cost the companies themselves a lot less money and time, but it could also increase the number of new companies. this can only be to the benefit of the economy where the registration takes place.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the investeu programme to include the following areas: with some eur 40 billion in european guarantees (and thus no subsidies), it is estimated that eur 650 billion in investments will be attracted in these key sectors. this will help european companies to develop innovative products themselves, without having to rely on large non-european funders. this renewed programme efficiently combines all existing financial instruments into one streamlined programme. management structures are also being greatly simplified. the emphasis is now on the national investment banks. our flemish holding company can now be fully responsible for the implementation of the investments itself. so our input was amply incorporated into the final result. we have made a clear distinction between the n-va and the ecr. the fact that investeu is now being adopted at the very last plenary session of this parliamentary term is a fine conclusion to a very interesting political period for me.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the regions of the union, and has also taken steps to ensure that the quality of life in the regions of the union is not compromised. one of the lessons we learned from the 2008 crisis is that a stable economy is an investment economy. the promise of eur 650 billion in additional investment under this programme is a promise for the future. investments in research, innovation and digitalisation, in particular, will ensure that our union remains one of the most attractive destinations in the world for investors, businesses, creative minds and workers in the years to come. colleagues, let us work together to close the investment gap.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i have been in this house since 1999 and in 20 years we cannot say that the european framework on endocrine disruptors has evolved while the science has advanced. researchers have identified the impact of these disruptors on human and animal health, as well as their link to certain chronic diseases, particularly certain cancers, infertility and neurodevelopmental disorders. that link is proven. the european union does not seem to have taken action against what the who already called a global threat in 2013. we're very late. in 2015, the court of justice condemned the european commission for its lack of action in this area. four years later, we have not made much progress, commissioner, and this new strategy seems to have failed. for example, the definition of endocrine disruptors applies only to plant protection products. however, it is now known that 80% of exposure occurs through food. so we must ban them in cans, in jars, in all those materials which are intended to come into contact with food, in cosmetics, too, as has been said, or in toys. i checked yesterday: only eight substances are listed as endocrine disruptors in the european database. there's over a thousand of them! a study published a few days ago indicated that traces of 90 troublemakers had been found in just one river in france! this is the big gap: we need to speed up the identification tests. bisphenol a, the one with the most documented adverse effects, remains widely authorised. europe is not moving fast enough. as a result, belgium, but not only france, austria, denmark and sweden have already started to move forward and legislate. it is in these areas that the added value of european harmonisation makes all the sense it can. i urge you to listen to researchers to protect the health and environment of europeans. this strategy does not go far enough, we must act faster and stronger.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a result that can be. first of all, i would like to thank the negotiators of the council and the commission for the good cooperation, for their coolness and for the patience they have shown during these negotiations, but above all for their vision and perseverance. ladies and gentlemen, we have negotiated for the past year with one goal in mind: we need to raise 180 billion euros a year to meet our climate goals. time will tell whether we have succeeded in this too. personally, i firmly believe that today we are laying the next cornerstone for a sustainable future. a sustainable future that offers our children and grandchildren the same opportunities as our generation. if we can believe the climate protesters, today is not five, but ten over twelve. they're right. we should have intervened 20 years ago on climate. we cannot justify this by unthinkingly placing this burden on the financial sector today. because let me be clear about one thing: at the end of the ride, you and i will pay the bill. the only solution is a structural one. sustainable investments must be rewarded. it is the only way to avert the next financial, economic and climate crisis. i thank the rapporteur for the good cooperation. this is the last time i shall speak in this house. i want to thank everyone for the opportunities i've been given here.
mr president, last october we debated here the mass arbitrary detentions in the xinjiang autonomous region. i then quoted the opening lines of one of the oldest german protest songs against the suppression of freedom: "the mind is free. who can stop them?" yet that is precisely what china is trying to do. anything that doesn't fit within the one-china policy is being rolled up. in xinjiang, it is the uighurs and kazakhs, in tibet, the tibetans. china has a clever strategy: a soft image towards the outside world, focusing on economic cooperation, including with the eu. but internally, there are many political prisoners who are being tried to cure their ideological disease until their minds are clear. behind china's opening to the world is a ruthless state apparatus. so i'm going to repeat what i said last year: the eu has a duty to call on the chinese authorities in clear terms to stop the persecution, release the prisoners and close the camps. because, mr. president, "thoughts are free" and no government can ultimately prevent that.
we are rightly expressing our deep dissatisfaction today with the criminal code in brunei. the amputation of limbs, public stoning, whipping: these medieval practices are now part of the standard arsenal of retaliation for unwanted behaviour in brunei. states are responsible for their own rules, but those rules themselves are subject to the principles of the universality of human rights, and in particular the prohibition of inhuman treatment and torture. "respect for the national context" is no excuse. in particular, the rights of women and children, and of the lgbti community, are being fundamentally damaged. ladies and gentlemen, mr president, madam high representative, this is my last speech in the final debate of this part-session. let us remember that human rights are never fully achieved. only political pressure can bring about lasting change when human rights are being violated in a way that is as bad as in brunei. the european parliament is doing this today. the commission, the eeas and the member states must insist on the repeal of this draconian legislation which is being contested. brunei may be a rich country, but the moral poverty of its leader is beyond question to me!
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, in accordance with rule 190(4) of the rules of procedure, i wish to propose on behalf of my group that we adjourn the vote on the balas report on the coordination of social security to a later parliamentary session. this is because the report is not at all ready for a vote in plenary and voting on it today would only highlight the serious divisions that exist among us on the last day of this legislature. i really believe that we need to leave this file open, to enable the next parliament to explore options in order to reach a good and solid agreement that will bring genuine added value to our citizens. i hope i can count on your support to postpone the vote, and i thank you for your attention.
the trouble is that if everyone exceeds a minute then fewer get to speak – which isn’t an issue this evening but it will be in future parliaments. so we try and stick to the rules, and you did take extra time.
madam president, fellow members of the house of representatives, the european union and the european parliament should pay close attention to the early parliamentary elections in ukraine on 21 july. after the presidential election in the spring, we were confident that rapid changes would follow, but the central election commission again refused to create a hungarian-majority constituency, raising further concerns that numerous abuses are being seen in the election campaign. the most common of these abuses are vote buying, or the launching of similarly named clones with no political experience to deceive voters, or voter fraud, or, even more egregiously, the secret services targeting those who campaign for a particular representative. unfortunately, leaders of the hungarian community, journalists, teachers are still being targeted, so i urge you to take into account what is happening in ukraine. we must ensure that ukraine not only expresses its aspirations to join the eu, but also actually pursues them.
madam president, commissioner vestager, it is a great pleasure to speak again from the european parliament. i would like to talk about the multiannual financial framework, which is the guarantee of a stable and economically predictable europe, and i believe that the next budget for 2021-2027 is no longer just a priority but an emergency. i want to tell you that although the european commission has tabled the budget proposal since 2 may 2018, there have only been three trilogues on this topic, and then i think we should not be surprised that populism is growing in europe. it's about a new beginning for europe. the commission proposal has doubled the amounts - if approved by you as fellow legislators and by the council - for research, innovation, youth, erasmus programmes, not to mention cohesion policy, which helps to reduce the gap between regions, and on the other hand for agriculture, subsidies for agriculture. so my call is for the trilogue between the commission, the council and parliament on the 2021-2027 budget to resume as soon as possible. sorry, but i'm not used to talking for a minute anymore, i have to get used to it again.
i know that when you are in the commissioner’s seat you get more time, but i’m afraid in parliament ... but our british colleagues should know that brevity is the soul of wit. there you are. thank you for the recognition.
madam president, please move forward. "avant" is the expression we use in my seafaring village to refer to the determination it takes to get through the worst situations. strength, courage, and solidarity. these are the sentiments i send from here to the relatives of the young man from villava who died last week in terrible floods; to the neighbors of central and eastern navarre, of tafalla, olite, pueyo, pitillas, beire, and their institutions, affected by an unprecedented storm that dumped in three hours the triple of rain that falls in the area throughout the month of july. thirteen municipalities are already catastrophe zones and make us reflect on the proliferation of extreme atmospheric phenomena linked to climate change. so this expression of solidarity is also a call for the climate emergency to be a priority in this legislature. we need a global strategy, no doubt, but we want it built from the ground up. because many of the decisive battles are won from the local and regional level.
madam president, today 113 million europeans are at risk of poverty, 113 million are at risk of social exclusion. that's ten times the population of my country, belgium. we have a social emergency in the european union today. this is not a coincidence but the consequence of policies that have been voted and approved here by the traditional parties around us, those traditional parties that have voted liberalisation after liberalisation and budget cuts after budget cuts. today, the logic of the european treaties, which, in the face of the needs of the people, prefers to give priority to markets, is unacceptable. we have a choice: either we continue to accompany this downward spiral, or we strengthen social resistance to create a europe not of austerity but of prosperity and a europe not of social dumping but of social progress.
madam president, mrs von der leyen, my name is assita kanko and i am one of the seven children of a woman who had to run and hide when she decided to divorce – chased away by religious and traditional prohibitions. when my last sibling was born she was 37. i turned 39 last sunday and i have only one kid, by choice. but also because, for millions of female genitally-mutilated women, giving birth is more complicated – i am one of them. and i am grateful for this freedom to stand here and talk to you. i’m asking you this question as a fleming and a woman, as a little girl who did not escape fgm and as a concerned mother. in europe we close our eyes when the islamic state kidnapped and raped women and girls like nobel prize winner, nadia murad. we look away when girls are cut on european soil – 500 000 is the number of those who live today with the consequences of fgm inside the eu. we look away when there are honour crimes, sharia courts, segregation and islamic radicalisation, which is bad news for women and our european values. how are you going to use your position to protect all women regardless of their religion and tradition? article 1 of the universal declaration of human rights has yet to apply to them. you can do this inside a strong europe, not a superstate for top jobs but one about the people and which adds value and respects subsidiarity.
mr president, commissioner, when we know that forest goods and services contribute to 9 of the 17 sustainable development goals (food production, clean water supply, carbon capture and storage, biodiversity and, too often forgotten, reducing inequalities), the interest in forests should really be put back on the political agenda. in this respect, we welcome the willingness of president von der leyen to make the achievement of these objectives a priority. but if there is a policy of reforestation, i would like to remember one sentence in particular from your communication: newly planted forests cannot replace primary forests. once destroyed, they cannot be recreated. when there's a loss, it can't be compensated. the amazon is a subject of much discussion, and it is obviously in the headlines, but no less than 43% of the european territory is forested. so this is a crucial issue, we must find the means. there are some under the common agricultural policy, but they are largely underused. does the european commission plan to promote it to the member states? finally, i repeat with my colleagues that biomass is a fundamental issue and we know that it is a real aberration, a hypocrisy, to use it as a source of renewable energy.
mr. president, we're going to stop playing around. we know: i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. we are still not where we should be and we are really failing these young people in this way. if we want to respond today to rising inequality on the one hand and the lack of effective climate action on the other, we must first and foremost break with austerity and allow massive public investment in our infrastructure. secondly: please let's make sure that those millionaires all over the continent start paying their taxes. let's make them pay their taxes and use that money for people and planet. and finally , let's break up this carbon trading that allows multinationals to profit at the expense of the climate. then maybe we'll get there, because we know it: if the planet were a bank, she'd be saved by now.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the dress i am wearing was made by a girl in burkina faso. when we were her age, we had so many dreams. who doesn’t, when one is 20 years old? but what future is being shaped for her, on her motorcycle in a village in burkina faso, or for our kids here in a global world where jihadism is allowed to grow here and there? as the world looks away, burkina faso – my country of birth, where i played and ran barefoot in the then safe fields – is sinking far away in jihadist violence today, after so many other places. didn’t the world look away too long when the same problems occurred in iraq or in syria? islamic state, al qaeda, boko haram and other jihadist terror groups are now growing up again in this area. in the meantime, there are plenty of meetings, but isn’t it about time for more action and concrete results? the impact of the growing insecurity is a very concrete fact in the daily lives of people like that girl. school doors are more and more often barred by violence, leaving them without the education they need and with the increased risk of recruitment by armed groups, exploitation by human traffickers, abuse by child marriage and teen pregnancy. the number of displaced grew from 50 000 to 300 000 in less than a year. health centres are closed. freedom of the press was also affected by a legal ban on reporting on military operations. businesses, including western ones, move out – i just spoke to a business leader yesterday in brussels. we need less meetings and more actions and results for the girl i just told you about.
mr president, our group cannot be part of the work of the steering committee. that is a stain on the democratic reputation of this parliament, but the nva delegation from flanders will nevertheless vote in favour of the resolution. we want to do everything we can to get a deal done. no deal is a bad deal! we hope that our negotiators will continue to negotiate constructively and - now that a small opening seems to have been made - with the necessary flexibility, respecting the principles of the backstop and respecting the integrity of the internal market. as regards the future relationship, mr barnier rightly stressed that there is more to it than trade. i would also point out that, in addition to defence, security and so on, there is research and development, university cooperation, the blue economy and so on. as regards the aid from the globalisation fund, i would point out that only a few per cent of our exporting companies have more than 49 employees.
madam president, as you know, the reason i went into politics was called foot-and-mouth disease, an animal disease which, as they do, does not stop at borders and which touched my country, the netherlands, yours, ireland and also france and the united kingdom at the beginning of this century. hundreds of thousands, even millions, of farm animals were killed on account of a disease against which they could have been easily vaccinated, and the outcry that this created in rural areas was not heard in london because the british government at the time did not want to change the so-called non-vaccination policy. so it was this house which represented the interests of both europeans and british in order to change that policy, and which worked together with places like northumberland and the scottish borders. fast-forward 20 years, and the constructive, pro-european tories i worked with at the time have been purged from their party by people who can’t even be bothered to attend this full debate. westminster is closed for business and it is once more this parliament that is representing the interests of both british and european citizens. and, like a majority – a majority – of british citizens, this house doesn’t want a no-deal brexit either. but let me also be very clear: we will not accept access into our european market for products with lax financial oversight, in the case of the financial sector, or low environmental standards and low animal-health standards. and if you want to know why, go and ask the farmers in friesland and northumberland alike. (applause)
madam president, membership or not, the british remain among us and we live together. we are the representatives of citizens from the different member states, we take this seriously and we cooperate with our british colleagues here deeply and in a warm way. parliamentarianism needs to be protected. it is the core of democracy. in parliament, different ideas meet and then we look at a way forward. in a western democracy, governments represent the will of the majority of the parliament. in the uk, a law designed to stop a no-deal brexit passed in both houses of the uk parliament. so, in principle, we should not worry, but now it seems that prime minister johnson is trying to take control away from his parliament, to take control away from the british. the new uk leadership is still flirting with the idea of a no-deal brexit and they appear to have become more hard line. the eu should remain calm, principled, united and reasonable. we cannot decide on behalf of the brits, but we will give them time if they want to clear this mess up.
madam chairman, i will not repeat myself. i think the vast majority of us don't want brexit. some of us are still hoping that it might not happen at all. but i fear the british prime minister is prepared to throw the united kingdom overboard. leaving without a deal. nothing could be worse. the commission must therefore continue to prepare for this scenario. but not only that. the commission and the member states must have a crisis plan for european business. not letting it go down with brexit. we must insist on the rights of the more than three million eu citizens who today live on islands in great existential uncertainty. he doesn't know what kind of britain he'll wake up to on november 1st. british brexit policy is like looking for a unicorn. it's not worth anything. changing the dates, revoking the agreed, resolving the agreed. time is running out, and it is no wonder that the eu is running out of patience.
madam president! in taking part in this debate, i would like to highlight three of the most important negative consequences of a no-deal brexit. first, there is uncertainty about the rights of eu citizens living in the uk. the contract guaranteed them at the same level as now. the estimated eur 50 billion that the united kingdom has agreed to pay as commitments for 2019-2020 and part of the commitments beyond 2020 are likely to be missing from subsequent eu budgets. trade problems with the uk. the european union has a huge surplus in this trade. in 2017, it was about £100 billion. the absence of agreement means that it will have to be conducted on the basis of wto rules, i.e. with the introduction of tariffs, import quotas or other non-tariff restrictions. it seems that for at least these three reasons, the union should also seek to ensure that the united kingdom's withdrawal is, however, on the basis of a negotiated agreement with a revised political declaration containing goodwill gestures to the united kingdom.
madam president, i guess everything important about brexit has been said. the position of the eu 27, the council, parliament and the commission is clear and transparent and stable. still, we should not miss the opportunity to reach an agreement – an agreement that will reduce the cost of brexit for all europeans. by this i mean also europeans from the uk as well as from the continent. if an extension would increase the chance of such a result, we should grant it. still, i guess there are things that we should learn from our friends from london that can make our society better and avoid the crisis that is ongoing in london. first of all, i believe that politicians should sometimes admit that personal interest and power – even victory in elections – are less important than the future of the country and society. second, i believe – and this is not just for politicians – we should talk to each other more, at least in situations where our views are not so different. we should construct bridges rather than build walls. last but not least, we should promote a culture that prefers the facts and truth over lies. this is very important. we should, together with civil society, schools, experts and other parts of society, make sure that the current alarming trend where lies are rewarded over the truth will not continue and will be changed, and that the biggest liars will not become presidents or prime ministers.
madam president! i am not questioning the right of the united kingdom to leave the european union, but i am pointing out something like the political responsibility for the fate of europe. and it is this political responsibility for europe's destiny that guides the european commission, the parliament and the council. so we are protecting our citizens (i mean, there are almost a million poles living in the british isles), we are protecting our industry, trade, transport, our economic interests. and this lack of accountability is a hallmark of the uk government. i have the impression that the british government thinks that peace or war in ireland is our business, our problem, that it is not the british problem. the british want to keep the benefits, but they don't want to share the responsibility. we have no constructive designs for solutions. after brexit, life will go on. the key is trust. and you, the british government, must strive to build that trust in us, because without that trust, there will be no good solution.
madam president, three years after the referendum, british citizens are sending us a strong signal that mr nigel farage is not the voice of british society. every day, they are expressing vocal opposition to brexit, and the presence of so many pro-european british meps in this parliament is the real proof of the fact. a change is much needed now, because brexit continues to be pursued for tory advantage, but without a plan on how to deliver it. by insisting that the backstop be removed from the withdrawal agreement, but without proposing a working solution, the uk government refuses to secure an orderly withdrawal. families, children, students and all our citizens want to have certainty. more than three million non-british eu citizens – of whom a quarter of a million are from my home country of bulgaria – have been living in legal limbo, but also in frustration, anxiety and disappointment, since the referendum. as we all see, brexit is a bad idea and it should be stopped.
mr president, much has been said, but one thing is clear: brexit presents us with a major challenge. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the smes will be particularly hard hit. we all feel that the british government no longer sees a way out of its self-chosen brexit. and now that the unpredictability is greater than ever, we must prepare europe for a no deal in the interests of business and europeans. on 4 september the european commission made a number of proposals on the globalisation fund and the solidarity fund to provide funds for these. but it is very important that small and mediumsized enterprises should also benefit from this. paragraph 14 of the motion for a resolution before us, which i fully support, is very clear and calls for parliament to make financial support for small and mediumsized enterprises possible as soon as possible in the event of a no-deal, although we believe that it can be averted in the coming days and weeks.
madam president, it’s my honour in this debate to mention my constituent jacci woodcock, who has been diagnosed with breast cancer, but is also the inspiration and the driving force behind the dying to work campaign which is seeking to secure stronger legal rights and protections in the workplace for people with a terminal illness. working with her trade union, the gmb, now with the trades union congress, and now with the european trade union confederation (etuc) and the european cancer patient coalition (ecpc), we are now pushing the commission as part of any european cancer plan to include specific protections to support people with terminal illness to stay in the workplace, to continue to have the dignity of employment for as long as they can and as long as they so wish. so i press the commission to take action on that point and i encourage meps from across the house to support the dying to work campaign group here in parliament which i launched during the last mandate.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. a master plan for cancer - and that is our ambition - must take account of a multitude of factors. europe must be in the driver's seat when it comes to research and development of new technologies. i'm thinking about artificial intelligence and medical 3d printing, but also the correlation between environmental factors and epigenetics. our plan may be a technological and innovative masterpiece, but it will mean nothing if we don't put the patient first. putting the patient first means ensuring access to affordable medicines. the debate on this will have to be opened with the pharmaceutical sector. we don't want two-tiered health care. putting the patient first means closing the prevention gap. and, commissioner, you are right when you say that we should focus more on prevention, but we all know that a healthy lifestyle and a healthy diet are still the more expensive way of life. focusing on the patient and these central places also means that, in addition to the proper attention to very young children, we must not forget the ayas, the group of young people and young adults who are facing cancer. they are on a rollercoaster ride, facing existential questions at an age that should be carefree. this is why i am in this parliament. these are the european values i want to defend: solidarity, tolerance and reliability for those who are on the downside of life.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let us say at the outset that the budget cuts made by the council in the union budget do not reflect the priorities of the finnish presidency, nor those of the new commission president, and even less those expressed by our fellow citizens. we must seize the opportunity of this moment to turn the climate challenge into an economic opportunity and ensure sustainable and shared prosperity for all, by investing in research and development and innovation. i have also tabled, on behalf of the renew group, amendments reflecting our political priorities: social entrepreneurship and microfinance, for tailor-made support for vulnerable people in their desire to set up or boost their own micro-enterprise; the promotion of entrepreneurship and improving competitiveness through strong support for smes; support for innovation in smes and access to finance for smes; increased financial resources for the european centre for the development of vocational training. all these commitments to growth and jobs.
mr president, she liked soccer, maybe she was in love with someone, and enjoyed specific scents or food. her name is sahar khodayari. she was also known as the blue girl, the colour of her favourite soccer team. facing a jail sentence for trying to watch a soccer game, which is forbidden for women in her country – as another flemish iranian, darya safai, has been telling the world – the 29—year—old iranian set herself on fire two weeks ago in front of the islamic revolutionary court of tehran. in iran, human rights defenders, or people like her who just want to enjoy freedom, face harassment, prosecution and detention. protecting women’s rights is not a crime. since january 2018, 32 people have been arrested in iran, and at least 10 imprisoned, for protesting against the mandatory wearing of the hijab. the compulsory dress code is a violation of human rights and women’s dignity. in the past three years, 30 eu dual nationals have been unjustly arrested – like, for example, professor ahmad reza jalali who was also a visiting professor at the free university brussels (vub). after all the resolutions, council conclusions and so on, the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy stressed, earlier this year, that dialogue is the only way, but it’s not enough. it was not for khodayari: she is dead because she liked soccer and was 29. it was not for jalali: he’s in jail and sick. many others are threatened.
madam president, we are not dealing with people acting in good faith. yes, that means you, mr barnier. you’re not looking for solutions. you’re looking to put obstacles in our way. you may have conned a very weak and gullible mrs may into signing up into a new treaty from which there was no escape, but you’re not conning us. we don’t want your treaty in any form, even with mr johnson’s proposed amendments. the referendum was very clear. we voted to leave the institutions of the european union and to be free and, you know, we’ve had enough of being talked down to by you, insulted by messrs tusk and, indeed, juncker, and we will never accept a german chancellor attempting to annex a part of our nation. we simply won’t have it. the good news is your wretched treaty is off the table. support for a clean-break brexit is growing and it will be the winning ticket at the next general election. (applause from certain quarters) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
i didn’t think we were discussing the uk’s next general election; i thought we were discussing brexit. you have, of course, provoked some reaction from colleagues. will you accept a blue-card question? ms bunting.
blue-card answer. – you patronising snuck—up snob. how dare you you tell people they didn’t know what they were voting for? they knew exactly what they were voting for. they were voting against 50 years of people like you lying to them. they did it, you promised you’d enact it, and you – the lib dems and others – have betrayed the greatest democratic exercise in the history of our nation. (applause from certain quarters)
let that settle for a moment. just let that settle. i am taking a decision not to have two more questions put to mr farage. i think that is the correct decision.
president. - the debate is closed. it is clear that next week's summit will be very important for the brexit dossier and i hope that the common sense of our friends from the united kingdom will come out. it is true that many businesses, both small and large, are very concerned. if you have been following the discussions and explanations, you know that the situation is not looking good. i would like to deal with the question of transport. a great deal of preparatory work has been done in the field of rail, air and sea transport, but i would like to raise the question of road transport. we are very concerned that this will lead to a major traffic disruption, especially in the event of a hard brexit, especially in belgium and especially in flanders, which is very vulnerable in this area. belgium, together with the european commission and the netherlands and france, has taken the initiative to inform road hauliers about the problems that will arise on 31 october. my question is: is this sufficient or should we take additional initiatives to prevent traffic chaos in belgium and flanders, among other places?
president. - the debate is closed. i would like to say that i agree with what michel barnier and commission president juncker have said. the current brexit proposal is not an alternative to the backstop and does not provide sufficient guarantees, including a level playing field for the future. but a no-deal brexit is the worst-case scenario, and the british parliament has opposed it. as mr corbett has already said, we must do everything we can to avoid a no-deal brexit. i would remind you that the failure to reach agreement on the resolution we adopted is the main reason for the delay. i would therefore urge the council to do everything possible to delay brexit if no agreement is reached, so that the british people can have a say in the future relationship, and i would like this to be done, as mr barnier has already said, with respect and on the basis of dialogue.
on behalf of the group of the european right president, madam high representative. will the kurds once again become the plaything of history? this is what it looks like today, after the turkish invasion of northern syria. after the kurdish militias delivered the [...] to help cover up the is caliphate, the us is now dropping them. the turkish autocrat erdogan will soon have free reign to overturn kurdish autonomy in the area. his plan to resettle syrian refugees in the northern strip of rojava, where the largest syrian kurdish cities are located, will create long-term instability there. the turkish offensive threatens to make the recovery of the broken country almost impossible. at the end of last month, a constitutional committee was set up with the help of the un to hold constructive talks between the syrian government and the opposition. erdogan is now effectively burying this dialogue. this raid could give the is terrorists a second wind, both in europe and in the sahel region. the situation is acute and precarious, as my country, burkina faso, unfortunately demonstrates. isis will be able to operate freely in camps like al-hol. we can also expect a refugee crisis. so irresponsible, this turkish action in syria. the european union must therefore urge the parties concerned to exercise maximum restraint. the european union has a duty to help the people of the region, and to help the people of the region to be able to live in peace and security. i ask that the democratic kurdish self-government be protected. please let us effectively counter the resurgence of jihadist terror.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we just heard the figures. i won’t repeat them, but i just want to say that in europe we account for more than 20% of global cancer cases and deaths, whereas we only have 9% of the global population, so something is particularly wrong in europe. we know that this leads to considerable direct health and indirect social and economic costs, and of course it should be a priority for this parliament, so i very much welcome the initiative, the debate of today. however, in light of the ‘health in all policies’ approach, i want to stress that we really should invest much more in prevention because all europeans are exposed daily to several substances that we know are proven to be carcinogenic or pro—carcinogenic. banning these should be a key priority because we don’t only need to fight against cancer but also against its causes, and this would perfectly fit in the zero-pollution ambition of the incoming commission.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, by voting today in favour of this resolution, we want to send a strong political signal to the citizens of europe that their concerns have been heard. it is also a warning to the council, expressing our wish to be a full participant in this debate on the future negotiations on the multiannual financial framework. ladies and gentlemen, financing our priorities on the eve of a brexit that is proving difficult requires not only modernising and simplifying our own resources, but also creating new ones. only with an ambitious budget will we be able to meet the new priorities in the fields of climate, youth employment, training, research and the strengthening of the euro area. we also need an ambitious common agricultural policy to protect our farmers and their incomes so that they can produce healthy, sustainable, affordable and quality food that is environmentally friendly.
mr president, i do not want to waste our time. i don't know if anyone will object to this request, but we have a request here to debate two particular elements related to climate change. it seems to me that we already have a debate on climate change on our agenda and i would say that we could already allocate a one or two hour slot at each session to discuss the most recent manifestations of climate change. so we are not going to oppose this, but if i may, i would invite our friends in the epp group to perhaps support more ardently all the measures that can help to combat climate change rather than demanding this kind of debate at every turn.
i have received a request from the gue/ngl group to include a commission statement on the chilean government's repression of the public mobilization against austerity and the role of the chilean military as the third item on the afternoon's agenda, and therefore the sitting should be extended until 10 p.m.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i think many of us were shocked to see that, faced with protesters against austerity for lower metro fares, the chilean government decided not only to impose a curfew, not only to use the army, but also to impose military rule in santiago and valparaiso. we think this requires a stance as it inevitably brings back to us memories of darker days of chilean history. therefore, we gently request a commission statement on the chilean government’s repression of these public manifestations against austerity and the role of the chilean military in this, as a third item on monday afternoon, and for the session to be extended until 10 p.m.
commissioner, beyond the collapse of a myth called thomas cook, we have of course seen the consequences in many countries, particularly in terms of employment. in my own country, belgium, no less than 500 people have been affected. so there are consequences for travellers, but also for workers. we must therefore work quickly, in the short, medium and long term. first, of course, as you have stressed, madam commissioner, it is important that all the financial means and instruments are used flexibly, efficiently, but also quickly, in dealing with the consequences of this bankruptcy, particularly at the level of european funds through the structural funds, such as the european social fund, but also the european globalisation adjustment fund. we must act quickly, since the families are waiting for answers about their jobs, their education, of course, but also simply about their future. secondly, it seems to me important that the social partners, and in particular the representatives of the workers concerned, play a key role, both at national and european level - of course, at national level, according to national rules, in particular in dealing with the consequences of this bankruptcy, of course, but also more broadly. in future, the european social partners in the tourism sector must be involved in a permanent and structured way in the development of new rules to deal with this type of event. and lastly, and perhaps most importantly, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that we need a much stronger european competence in the field of tourism. the stakes are enormous: this sector has an impact on many member states, on many people, on many families, on employment, on development and the development of territories. the future therefore requires a genuine european tourism policy with its own budget lines.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if we want an ambitious budget for the union, we must be united behind the draft report by our two rapporteurs, whose work i of course welcome here, and vote massively in favour of the draft general budget of the european union for the year 2020. given the events of the past week and their negative impact on the negotiations on the budget of the european union, we cannot rule out the use of provisional twelfths, which implies the reproduction of the current budget in monthly instalments, and which would further delay the achievement of our ambitions and priorities, whether they be climate, social or economic. i am thinking here of horizon 2020, the connecting europe facility, erasmus+, youth employment and especially the youth employment initiative. the council, by rejecting all our proposals for the time being, does not seem to be seeking the ambitious compromise. by voting massively tomorrow, we are sending a strong political signal of unity for a major budget that can respond quickly to today's emergencies and meet the concerns of our citizens for the climate, youth, the new economy. this increase of 2.7 billion is a tangible sign of our commitment to implementing a new generation of policies and programmes for the european union.
president, 2020 is the last year of the current multiannual budget, a multiannual budget that was adopted in 2013. the negotiations for the new multiannual financial framework are well under way. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new budget for the financial year 2020 and that the council should adopt a new budget for the financial year 2020. the agreement reached by the committee on budgets looks ahead to 2020. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr gardiazabal rubial and mr hohlmeier, for the excellent work they have done. the agreement seeks to respond to the many challenges of the future. that means that more needs to be done on climate. the eu's budgetary efforts should also be directed towards research and development of sustainable technologies to improve competitiveness. the agreement also calls for greater attention to digitalisation and support for young people. the challenges of security and migration and so many other challenges are also discussed. i look forward to the house's approval of the european parliament's position on the 2020 budget. as a member of the european parliament's negotiating team, i will do my utmost to defend consistently the positions adopted here. i promise you that i will work as a member of that team to achieve an outcome that meets the concerns of this parliament, and above all the concerns of the european citizens.
madam president, commissioner, if, as the resolution we are voting on tomorrow says, this budget is to be a starting point for the next multiannual financial framework, then we may well say that we have got off on the wrong foot. it is true that this budget is determined by a multiannual financial framework, the current one, extremely meagre, the lowest ever and fundamentally wrong in its priorities, a problem which will tend to worsen from 2021 onwards. if the budget is only 1% of the gross national income of all the member states, it should be stressed that only a little over a third of this amount is allocated to economic, social and territorial cohesion, while security policies, militarism, external interventionism, among others, are gaining ground and funding. despite our overall negative assessment of this budget, we have not failed to put forward proposals which i would like to draw to your attention and which, if approved, will represent improvements, punctual, of course, but important: strengthening the youth employment initiative, assistance in disaster situations, support for the productive sectors and smes, among others, in addition to the creation of pilot projects in the field of climate change, adaptation to drought, in the field of maternal and child health, among others.
madam president! when you participate in the annual budget procedure, you have a strong sense of déjà vu, and that is because the annual procedure is full of what i call in football language 'rights me to that name' 'the remaining fragments of the game'. the commission's preliminary draft is not a ceiling, it is an identification of the needs for the coming year. then the council makes decisions rather automatically, rather across the board, sometimes or often contradicting its own declarations. parliament returns the draft budget but goes further, this year emphasising climate priorities by €2.7 billion over the commission's original proposal. it is an interesting conciliation, but i have the impression - because i have been in conciliations many times - that if this conciliation goes on too long, it does not do well for the image of all the european institutions, because the beneficiaries want agreement, not interinstitutional quarrels, they want predictability. this is the last annual budget of this financial perspective, which i had the good fortune and pleasure of designing for the years 2014-2020, and so everyone sees today's annual struggle in terms of a much more important battle for multiannual budgets, and all the more so in terms of using the possibilities of the financial regulation, such as article 15 (3), to ensure maximum flexibility on the eve of the big budgetary battle.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we need a strong eu budget to meet the challenges of the future: implementing the paris agreement on climate change, building a european social union and fighting youth unemployment. we can no longer solve global problems at national level, and we cannot get more europe with less money. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the resolution on the 2020 budget contains massive improvements. we have heard it before: two billion more for climate protection, 500 million more for youth, a fund for sea rescue. but there are also serious shortcomings in this budget. for example, gender mainstreaming and gender budgeting are not implemented, despite the commitment of all eu institutions. that means we need a lot more action than words. as a representative of a militarily neutral country, i too regret that the defence sector is receiving massive financial injections at a time when social and political priorities are being cut back. we need disarmament instead of rearmament and billions for climate and social security instead of billions for armaments.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. in the next stage of the budgetary procedure, following the vote in the committee on budgets on more than 1300 amendments, commitment appropriations are to increase by almost eur 2.7 billion compared to the commission's draft and are to amount to eur 170 billion, and payment appropriations are to amount to some eur 160 billion. in particular, the proposal to increase the youth initiative by eur 360 million, the proposal to eliminate cuts to agricultural producer organisations and the proposal to increase the funding for europol and frontex. however, i would like to stress once again that while payment appropriations have increased by more than eur 5 billion compared to the current year, as the 2020 budget is the last year of the seven-year financial perspective, these appropriations may prove too small, as projects under both cohesion policy and rural development will be accelerated. the draft budget was based on conservative assumptions. the margin for payment appropriations is over eur 20 billion. the payment arrears we have had, which at their peak were over eur 30 billion, may therefore be repeated.
madam president, commissioner, minister, we all know that the european market creates inequalities. capital goes where it can make the most profit in the shortest time, and behind that, there are economic deserts, industrial deserts. there is a gap between countries, regions and workers. in recent years, some countries, such as lithuania, latvia, bulgaria, and romania, have lost between 15 and 25 percent of their population. this is huge! in belgium we have seen what has happened with the steel industry, with caterpillar, with arcelormittal, with the automobile industry - i am thinking of ford genk. in the face of all this, the european budget could at least be a little bit of a lifeline. and there's money! we now have budgetary margins. on the one hand we have budgetary margins and on the other hand we have a social emergency. and you say we don't want to use them? now, as the other guy would say, "the math is wrong, kevin, the math is wrong". we want glitter. where are they? and we want more.
mr president, when i was a child, if someone would say that the americans would come and save us, i actually tended to believe it because of american movies. i don’t know if it was right and i don’t know if today it would be wrong. if i was a child again and someone were to say, ‘wait, europe will come and save you’, maybe i’d start saving myself. europe has chosen diplomacy as a powerful tool and i think this is very beautiful. diplomacy is indeed a powerful tool, but only when the person across the table knows you are willing to act. we must show that, when it comes to ensuring global stability, the eu is not a talking shop but a beacon of hope for those fighting for freedom, for their lives. we should halt licenses for arms exports to turkey and consider putting in place economic sanctions. we must push for a no-fly zone in north-east syria and call for peace talks to be resumed with the involvement of kurdish representation. we should put an immediate block on european pre-accession aid and guarantee humanitarian assistance in the region for those displaced and in harm’s way. while some world leaders seek to retreat from their responsibilities in the middle east, this is the time for the eu to step forward and also pay special attention to women suffering a lot of abuse over there.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would ask you to close your eyes for a moment while i speak. you have children and your eldest, your beloved son, leaves belgium or your home for a fight that is not yours. you're fighting like a lioness to get him back. it's not working. only the political will is lacking. your grandchildren are born in this war context in deplorable humanitarian conditions, in a situation of chronic malnutrition. the conflict will not spare your son who dies for the cause, the very cause you have been fighting for since you took your seat in the european parliament. once again, you are fighting like a lioness to ensure that your grandchildren, who are in no way responsible for the situation, victims of a war they did not choose, are repatriated to europe, to safety. today, as politicians, you have the power to repatriate these european children, and the european union can coordinate this action in the best interests of the children enshrined in the international convention on the rights of the child, which we have all committed ourselves to respect.
madam president, turkey, under the pretext that the kurds living in syria are terrorist prisoners, has invaded that country and is conducting military operations on syrian soil, with civilian victims and innocent children. it is the same country which, in 1974, under a similar pretext, invaded the republic of cyprus and has since occupied 40% of the island. we all subscribe to the european council resolution condemning in the strongest terms the military intervention which has caused and is causing hundreds of human casualties, undermining the fight against isis and posing a serious threat to european security. we condemn the turkish attack on syria, without asterisks and without footnotes. (applause from the centre and the right)
the uachtaráin, or the parliament, is usually sitting in the morning, when the sun is low. we are on a ghuth in the morning and we are doing a tour in northern syria. august tuigimid gurb is an bhunchúis atá laws ná gur tharraing donald trump a fhórsaí amach go tobann ar mhaithe lena íomhá féin ag an mbaile, gan féachaint don rud a tharlódh ina dhiaidh sin. the president of the united states is the head of the executive branch of the united states. i told commissioner stylianides, we've seen what's happened in the coordination committee and we've seen what's happened in the law enforcement, two hundred thousand people have been killed, and isis has come to the island. we will endeavour to do so first by providing financial support to turkey, in view of the financial situation which we are facing, and in particular the political situation in the united nations.
it is good that we in the european parliament are sending a clear and unequivocal message to turkey. our motion for a resolution is very clear: turkey must realise that our pre-accession aid is not unconditional and that the financial envelope which turkey receives to reform itself to european standards cannot and must not be paid out any further. the crisis in northern syria is a clear wake-up call for the european union: we urgently need a genuine european asylum and migration policy and a genuine european defence policy, and the european union must resolutely push for an international security zone in northern syria controlled by an international military force. this is the only way we can stop people fleeing, hold the isis fighters, bring the children back, and stabilize the region.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking the president of the court of auditors for the presentation of his annual report and for the work done by all his departments. as i said in committee, this presentation is the beginning of our discharge process. we are therefore at the beginning of our work and, in terms of budgetary efficiency, our task - we know - is not simple. we must find a balance between a budget that is both ambitious and realistic. the european union must not make promises it cannot keep. the court's report is generally positive, but i would point out a number of points to which we must pay particular attention. the problems are not new: the review of the rules for reimbursement, which generate significant errors; the error rate in high-risk expenditure; the low absorption rate in some countries; the lack of a clear and comprehensive approach to the problem of the reimbursement of expenditure; the lack of a clear and comprehensive approach to the problem of the reimbursement of expenditure; the lack of a clear and comprehensive approach to the problem of the reimbursement of expenditure. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the budget, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budgetary procedure, the budget procedure, the budget procedure, the budget procedure, the budget procedure, the budget procedure, the budget procedure, the budget procedure, the budget procedure, the budget procedure, the budget procedure, the budget procedure, the budget procedure, the budget procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the procedure, the etc. the court also stated that all european bodies must work to harmonise audit procedures and practices. we therefore hope that initiatives will be taken, both by the court and by the commission, to align the procedures, the audit methods in order simply to guarantee the reliability of the data. the impact and effectiveness of policies must also be enhanced by effective budgetary controls and audits. as you know, the calculation of the impact of performance is a priority of my political group and as such i encourage the court to carry out more performance audits to check whether policies and programmes are effectively implemented.
madam president, this resolution is based on a serious misconception. its proponents claim that the aim is to save lives, but in fact its adoption would be sending the wrong message and would consequently result in even more tragic events. this is because in its current form it is a clear letter of invitation to millions of people in africa. if we keep pretending that we are able and ready to welcome everybody into europe, then even more people will depart and risk their lives. instead, what we have to do is to help people where help is needed. we need a resolution that tackles the problem at its roots. we have to invest in border protection, further strengthen cooperation with third countries, and we have to effectively fight human smuggling networks for people not to leave their countries in the first place. the best way to avoid people drowning in the mediterranean is to make every political effort so that the smugglers’ boats never leave the coast of africa. it is also completely unreasonable to involve ngos, with unclear backgrounds, in operations that can only be carried out by competent state and european authorities. it is completely unacceptable to worship and encourage ngos to disregard rules and break laws. ngo ships must not be allowed to work as a transport service bringing illegal migrants into europe. if we want to save people’s lives, we have to reinstate european border control and take help to third countries. the adoption of this resolution in its current form would be a great irresponsibility on our part. the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8).
blue-card question. – i have two questions for my colleague. number one: are you sure you belong to epp and not, rather, to id? and number two: is what you have said in any way close to christianity?
blue-card answer. – first of all, having debates on issues as important as this one, even within the political groups, is, i think, normal, and it’s a good thing to have these debates and to talk about these things openly. secondly, you mentioned christianity. i tell you this: responsibility is part of christianity, and i think that what europe has been doing about migration has been totally irresponsible. it’s irresponsible to be sending messages to people in need, saying that anybody can come in without limits, let them in, and then tell them years later, ‘sorry, you don’t have the right to stay now, go back.’ that’s irresponsible. the responsible approach and attitude is to be realistic and to take help to people in need where it is needed locally. that’s the local interest, and that’s christian responsibility, i think.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank our chairman of the libe committee for his work and the motion for a resolution he has tabled, which focuses on the urgent measures we must take to put an end to the deaths in the mediterranean. saving lives must be our priority. the agreement reached in malta is a positive and necessary step, but it is still not enough. in the face of such a challenge, we cannot go with patches. we must move from cooperation between a few member states to a genuine common european policy, starting with an emergency plan to save lives in the mediterranean. we must pay particular attention to women and children - many of them unaccompanied - who face a multitude of dangers and abuses along their journey. finally, it is not only death at sea: thousands of people are surviving in inhumane conditions in libyan detention centres. among them, there are more than a thousand unaccompanied minors. we must act now. i therefore call on the member states and the union to adopt the evacuation plans for un agencies and to open humanitarian corridors. and a personal note. i want to remind this house that migrants and refugees are not numbers or statistics or figures: they are people; that everyone has a life and a story behind them, ahead of them... and this is told by a child of migrants.
madam president, i am not a fan of demagogy, and i also believe that we need a broad consensus in this parliament to promote a policy on asylum, refuge and also migration policies, in order to put an end to the crisis we are experiencing in its management. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so we should take that element into account. at the moment, it is more risky to try to cross the mediterranean than in the past. there are more people, the percentage of people drowning is higher. on the other hand, criminalizing ngos is unfair. to play that game, to play demagogy with this issue, is pointless in relation to what we have to try to solve, because the package is blocked in the council. and secondly, something has become very clear today in what the council has said and what the commission has said. they are blind to what is happening in libya, and we cannot be complicit in the very serious violations of fundamental rights. whatever model we finally establish, we cannot allow that. let me be very clear.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if you break the law, you will be punished. that's how we protect our citizens. this is how our citizens can have confidence in a democratic state governed by the rule of law. but that's exactly what this political elite refuses to do. instead of protecting our borders, illegal immigrants who deliberately violate our laws are rewarded with a residence permit. some in this parliament even applaud ngos which encourage illegal immigration. some claim to do so for humanitarian reasons. but what is the humanitarian value of maintaining the business model of human trafficking? what is the humanitarian value of handing over our people to illegal invaders who commit numerous criminal acts? anyone with genuine humanitarian concerns breaks that business model of human trafficking, closes our borders, protects our people, apprehends illegals and sends them back without mercy to where they came from. that is what our citizens expect.
thank you, mr president, there was a technical problem with the time clock, so let us say that you made a little effort, but obviously there was a problem with us, so i understand that it was difficult for you to actually observe where you were in your speech. i would point out to mr pereira, who asked for a 'blue card', that we have established as a matter of practice that in the first round, the round of group interventions, we as vice-presidents tend not to grant the 'blue card' as a matter of practice.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i welcome the speech by commissioner andriukaitis at the high—level meeting on universal health coverage, stating that the eu will continue its efforts to ensure universal health coverage becomes a reality in eu countries, as well as in our partner countries. in particular, i appreciate that he stressed the need for a ‘health in all policies’ approach, as well as highlighting the eu’s commitment to a rights—based approach. however, these words and commitments should also put be put into action, and only by investing in the health rights of all people and ensuring equal access to health care can we make universal health coverage truly universal. i want to speak about something quite particular. as the chair of the european parliamentary forum for sexual and reproductive rights, i am very concerned that several governments, including some european ones, opposed sexual and reproductive health and rights and gender equality in the high—level meeting outcome document. fortunately, a strong alliance of progressive countries was able to ensure that standards on sexual and reproductive health and rights (srhr) and women’s rights were included in the final political declaration. in line with its rights—based approach, the eu should continue to stand united to defend the rights of women and girls within the eu and at the global level. it is clear that there will be no universal health coverage without universal access to sexual and reproductive health, and i want to thank commissioner mimica and minister tuppurainen for their commitment in this domain.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, at least half the world's population does not have full coverage of essential health services. the united nations has set itself the goal of achieving universal health coverage in 11 years. if things continue as they are, we'll hardly make it. universal health care means that all individuals and communities receive the health services they need, prevention, treatment, rehabilitation, palliative care, without having to suffer financial hardship to do so. the right to health is a fundamental and universal human right. how we can do this in practice will certainly not be because of the increasing commodification of health or the divestment of public health services that we see in many countries. we must look inward, look at the setbacks that have been made here in the european union. health is a right, it cannot be a business. we must also look outwards and step up our efforts in the field of development cooperation. it is necessary to look and it is necessary to act. there is a lot to be done and we regret that the main political groups in this parliament have refused to attach to this debate a resolution with recommendations from this parliament on the way forward.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, it is good that we are here today to debate the issue of universal health care. indeed, there are still many people around the world who do not have access to health care. within the eu too, too many people still do not have access to the care they need and are entitled to for financial reasons. the un political declaration rightly starts from the approach of 'health in all policies' and from the sustainability goals. i want to address a few issues. first of all, the environmental factors. we cannot talk about health without talking about a healthy environment and protection against harmful substances. this is also true of health at work, because too many workers worldwide are still not protected against toxic substances. the health gap is also one of my hobbies. poor makes sick and sick makes poor. too many people still do not get the care they need for financial reasons. that is unacceptable. we have an immense responsibility in vaccination policy, not only in europe but also internationally. failure to vaccinate means a danger to the entire population. we also need to invest in mental health care, including on our own continent. the total cost of this is estimated at eur 600 billion in the union. we're not gonna have to up the gearbox for this one, but two. the problem of sexual and reproductive health care has rightly been covered here. i'm with you on that. the ambitions are high, colleagues: universal health care by 2030. to achieve our objectives - and to finish - we will have to monitor things closely and make the necessary budgetary allocations.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, two african countries criminalise same—sex relations. four of them punish homosexuality with death. this is a heartbreaking and awful statistic. i have spent my whole life trying to help others fight intolerance and discrimination. when i was a kid i couldn’t imagine what my life would be if i had not been heterosexual. a lot of conversations i heard referred to homosexuals as criminals or people who are not clean. it’s really awful to know that today this is still the case. it has also been my experience that to really achieve meaningful and lasting change in attitudes and beliefs, you not only have to condemn and be bold or sound sad, but also promote education programmes and community dialogue for concrete and sustainable results. we need to help increase trust between local people and the ngos who carry out the brave and important work of protecting the lgbti community in these countries. europe needs to work together with communities, police forces and the political system of these countries to bring an end to this deplorable situation. we must use every opportunity we have in our dialogue with these countries to promote tolerance, education and understanding, because everyone has a right to be free and everyone has a right to live and love without fear.
for the greens/efa group madam president, thirty years after its adoption, the international convention on the rights of the child is the most widely ratified international text, as only two countries - the united states and somalia - have not done so. the text is based on four fundamental principles: non-discrimination, the best interests of the child, the right to life, survival and development, and respect for the views of the child. thirty years to build a world worthy of children. did we get there? the halving of infant mortality among children under five and the number of children who lack access to adequate nutrition cannot be denied, and this is also thanks to the field work that has been carried out and which must be welcomed. but, as has been pointed out, this binding text has proved to be a sham. violations of children's rights are rife in europe and the world: hotspots, detention of migrant children, 30,000 children of migrant origin reported missing in europe, non-respect of the right to privacy and family life for lgbt children and families, responsibility towards european children of foreign fighters, death of one in four children related to environmental risks, risk of poverty for one in four children, child labour affects 150 million children. in short, a world where discrimination related to lgbt gender, race but also disability and other aspects prevent effective equality. respect for the rights of the child enshrined in the convention means enabling children to become critical, active, creative, responsible and supportive citizens. we see it every day, all the climate mobilizations, like girls speak out, show that they want to get involved. let us open the doors of this assembly to them too!
mr president, every child deserves a future and the freedom to choose what that future looks like. everything we decide in this parliament is helping to shape those choices. our policy on the economy, the environment, the single market, trade and our engagement with third countries is building a framework for that future. yet, often the best way to improve a child’s life is to listen to what they have to say. as policy-makers, we need to make sure we do this. we cannot always allow what is urgent to overtake what is important in the long run and throw out the concerns of the young. as we saw with the ecr sakharov prize nominees and finalists, the restorers, these girls were determined to shape their own future by giving other girls of their age the freedom to choose what happens to their bodies and to their destinies. let me share a whatsapp message they sent me after their nomination. they said: ‘we are just back from class. being able to be part of the people who are considered for the prize itself was a big win for the team and an affirmation that we are not alone’. so i would like to call for us to speak more with each other and achieve more of this kind of hope.
president. - mr president, exactly 30 years ago we set out our great ambitions with the convention on the rights of the child, which is based on three pillars: protection, facilities and participation. but the work is not done. let's start with the protection. we must protect our children from all forms of violence and abuse. one in five children is still a victim of some form of sexual violence. this is unacceptable! mental health is another important area of concern. children should be able to grow up without worry, without a mental bag for any reason. then there are the facilities, the fundamental social rights, the right to education, shelter, health care and recreation. if you don't invest in young children, you risk losing an entire generation. the european child guarantee must provide an answer to this and we will be following that closely. and finally, there is participation. children have opinions. they must be heard and have a voice in decisions that affect them. we must take this fully into account in the formulation of our policy. every child must be the norm for our political action. a marriage of thirty years is called a "pair marriage". we must therefore treat each child as a precious pearl. let us work together to achieve the rights of the child for all children.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, first of all, i think it is time for the commission to open its eyes. in belgium, the liège steel industry employed 35,000 workers in the 1960s. today, 1,400 jobs remain, and they are constantly under threat. these are families, entire cities, that are at risk of sinking into poverty, into misery. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the context of the directive. why would you do that? it's not the fault of others. it is your fault, it is the fault of all those here who have sanctified the market, who have given priority to competition. so today is the time to really understand the social emergency and to set up a public hub for the steel industry in belgium and europe. we have the factories, we have the know-how, let's take advantage of it! let us take this into our own hands and let the steel industry in belgium and in europe live! please stop opposing it!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner too – because he stressed the link between the ebola outbreak and the health system strengthening that my colleague was just referring to. of course, the vaccines certainly are a step forward, but the many ebola outbreaks over the past decades have shown that the biggest problem is not the lack of a vaccine but the lack of functioning health systems, and we need strong health systems to protect congolese people and people anywhere else in the world against ebola. we need strong health systems to counter the many other health challenges which do not make it to western newspaper headlines, including, for instance, high maternal and child mortality. humanitarian organisations even warn us that the international ebola response is taking away staff and financial support to address these other challenges. i therefore urge the eu to use the ebola crisis as a means to strengthen the health systems in these countries and to make sure that ebola activities are integrated within their health systems.
in writing. violence against women remains a major challenge for the european union. however, women should feel safe everywhere: at home, in public and online. this violence is a source of suffering and trauma, and at the same time determines the position of women in society: it affects their health, access to employment and education and their participation in public life. this is diametrically opposed to the eu treaties' objective of gender equality. ursula von der leyen rightly calls ratification of the istanbul convention one of the top priorities of her commission. i would like to emphasize three key points: up-to-date and comparative data: we need to be better able to know how many people are victims of what forms of gender-based violence. the second. prevention and empowerment of women: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on gender equality and the implementation of the union's policy on gender equality in the fight against discrimination. the third. specialised care centres: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. it is time we sent a strong signal that women's safety is at the top of our agenda.
madam president, mr timmermans, mrs tuppurainen, i thank you for your statements. the european parliament is ready to declare a climate emergency. you said it over and over again: the goal is to achieve a zero-carbon society by 2050. but to achieve this we must now also ensure that our policies are consistent. but there are two sectors in which i do not see any coherence, two main sectors which contribute a great deal to co2 emissions, namely agricultural policy and trade policy. unfortunately, nothing in the letters of mandate of the future commissioners fundamentally changes the situation with regard to these policies. the european commission continues to press this assembly to adopt the free trade agreements which are based on the paris agreements. i take the example of yesterday's vote in the committee on international trade on an agreement with the united states, where mr trump has just declared that he is abandoning the paris agreement and the objectives we set ourselves here in the european union. as you said, for our children, for future generations and for the climate marchers, i believe that beyond the speeches and the political declaration of climate emergency that this parliament will proclaim this week, we need concrete actions and binding measures today to ensure that our free trade agreements also respect the paris agreements.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sorry, however, that i do not share the spirit of celebration and mutual congratulations, because quite simply, mr tiilikainen, the budget is inadequate in relation to the objectives set by the european parliament, the commission and even the council itself. i am addressing my colleagues from the other political groups in the european parliament. if we celebrate with a budget of 0.99% of european gdp, and less than 1%, how do you think we will negotiate effectively to achieve the target you set in the european parliament, namely the target of 1.3% for the new multiannual financial framework? the truth is that of the 480 million more that the european parliament had asked for for social and regional cohesion policies, we achieved an increase of 34 million, 11 times less. this is not a celebration. i therefore believe that the reality shows that the final compromise was sealed by the council, which unfortunately adopts policies which are inadequate for the future of europe and especially for the weakest. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment.
mr. chairman, please! the 2020 budget is of great importance to the european parliament, as it is the last budget for the period 2014-2020, but it is also the first budget of this parliament. and this parliament is made up of 60% of new members. the way we work and negotiate will therefore be a guide for the years ahead, and in particular for the preparation of the new perspective, the mff. this is so important that it raises the question of whether all three institutions think in terms of continuity. in other words, not from to, but building a continuous process. do all three institutions really want to build a sustainable development framework for the european union, or do they just think in terms of a one-year budget? we also remember that this 2020 budget will be the possible basis for replacing the perspective if it is not ready by 2020. we do not see much tension in the council at the moment and we do not see that all the countries are really interested in completing the mff quickly. it is therefore possible that this budget will provide a basis for further action. it is therefore extremely important that it has been agreed, but it has shown the different sides and approaches of the european institutions. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8))
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, both you and the commissioner have said that this budget will influence the new financial framework, and i agree with that statement. my question is: do you think that in the new financial framework we will be able to correct this, and here we have failed, namely: there is certainly not enough money for erasmus, even if it is an increase of 4%, if we have money for agricultural policy and cohesion policy and especially if we manage to increase this budget because we have heard here that it is only 0.9 and not 1.3 as was the target. how do you see that influencing and how could we make the council press for a bigger budget and to cover cohesion policy, as i was saying? thank you. thank you.
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. to answer the honourable member's question, we must be honest. i mean, to the question of whether we can improve, i say, i don't know. the european parliament's attitude to this budget shows that we will do everything to improve this situation, and that was a clear signal to the council.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as others have said before me, we were starting from a gap of 4.2 billion euros between the position of parliament and that of the member states, which, i repeat, wanted to reduce the commission's budget proposal by 1.5 billion euros. then we finally reached an agreement that reconciles our climate priorities with those for youth employment and innovation. compared to 2019, we increased commitment appropriations by 1.5%, bringing the budget to €168.7 billion. we are strengthening the horizon 2020 research and innovation programme by making the climate emergency an economic perspective. we are greening budgets for growth, competitiveness, but also for transport and energy infrastructure. we are defending our smes, the real backbone of our economy. finally, we support digital and erasmus+. to remain competitive with the us and china, europe must have a budget that is both ambitious and responsible. based on the mandate received from the european parliament, we defended our positions with the will to establish a budget that reflects the expectations of our citizens and we obtained an additional 850 million to implement our priorities, including more than 500 million for the climate alone. in 2020, 21% of the eu budget will be spent on the climate emergency, not 20%. i simply hope that this bodes well for the next financial years.
mr president, the 2020 budget is not something we can afford to be seduced by. of course there are good points but we still disagree with the overall vision of the eu and the way the money is spent. why give billions to turkey? why was money spent year after year to accommodate the endless stream of immigrants? why should we spend taxpayers' money on the accession of countries which can only add a heavy burden to the budget? when will we stop the climate hysteria? our group is therefore against it, all the more so since the flemings are the biggest net contributors to the entire union. but apparently, here in the european union, they are turning belgian poachers into forest rangers. the belgian prime minister, charles michel, became president of the european council, and the belgian finance minister, johan van overtveldt, became president of the committee on budgets. both, however, left behind a completely derailed budget before they left the sinking ship. belgium is at the bottom of the list when it comes to budgetary discipline. i'm not going to name any particular species of rodent here, but it certainly wasn't squirrels that left the ship. it is therefore at least surprising that serious countries in the eu reward such failure at the national level - in belgium, for example - with the highest positions in the european union. i told you.
madam president, this debate – and i have followed it from the beginning – has saddened me because i heard what some colleagues in this chamber have been telling us this evening. i was catapulted back to my childhood and adolescence, where i was told that you could not be different, that girls should be girls and boys should be boys, and girls should love boys and vice-versa. this was dictated by religious beliefs that, 40 years ago, in my country were dominant. i didn’t believe that one day i would be confronted with that again. it took me almost half a lifetime to liberate myself from that. and yes, it goes on. it is an ideology – of course it is – on the concepts of gender and family. this is what it is all about and the agenda has been hijacked by politicians, by nationalists and populists that want to use it in autocratic regimes, not only in poland. we see the same narrative in russia, in turkey and in other countries around the world. it has not only to do with lgbt persecution, it also has to do with the fight against gender equality and sexual and reproductive rights. it is all connected. we have to see that and, from our belief in our true values in this union, based on universal human rights, we have to fight this again every day. (applause)
madam president, this is a make or break commission. the uk is leaving, or trying to. enlargement strategy has stalled, our european way of life is under pressure and turkish troops continue to bite at the heels of our border management policy. let’s face facts: confidence and trust in the eu is fading, reforms are needed. we all need this commission to deliver. you will, therefore, need to work hard to unite this fractured union and win majorities around your agenda, especially on important issues like protecting the european way of life, ensuring effective solutions on internal security, migration management and economy. and we must lead by example on human rights. we need to increase jobs, growth and trade and to protect our environment while ensuring europe can remain competitive. it is no small undertaking, but i hope it can be achieved. it’s a great moment to have a female president of the commission. suffragette alice paul said: ‘there will never be a new world order until women are a part of it’. my hope is that you, madam president, and your team will show us every day that you are the woman for the job and for the change and i look forward to working with you.
madam president, you talk about ambition, but at the same time with this plan, i'm sure you'll disappoint lisette. lisette started working at the age of 15 and now receives a pension of €570 per month. what do you propose on page five? you propose to increase the european carbon tax. this is unacceptable. it is precisely against this carbon tax that the yellow vests have revolted in france, belgium and elsewhere and this, frankly, cannot be accepted. today, there are 125 million europeans who live in energy poverty, who cannot warm themselves in winter, who cannot live with dignity by turning on the lights. it is unacceptable to make europeans pay for this green deal for europe, that is the first point. i come now to my second point. i think that you also disappoint apolline, a student who every week, every month opts for radical measures in the streets, seeing that you talk about public investment, but not with a savings logic. the eu has a long history of supporting the development of clean energy, but it has not yet broken with the ets system, with emissions trading. how do you forget that?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, a free press keeps us free. it shines a light on the darkest and most corrupt corners of our societies. it holds politicians, governments, but also businesses, accountable. it keeps the eyes of our citizens wide open. from where i come from, i had never imagined that modern—day europe, the continent of enlightenment, would become the home to corruption, to press intimidation and to the assassination of journalists; that serious concerns about a criminal investigation, the independence of a criminal investigation, or serious concerns about the independence of government action would weave itself around the roots of our democracies. if europe is to speak with authority and credibility on governance, on freedom and on the fundamental rights, then europe must become the best it can be. if we are to win back the trust, and retain this trust, of our citizens, then we need to keep ourselves to the highest standards. daphne caruana galizia was a mother and a wife who will not be going home on christmas eve to hug her sons or smile to her husband because she did her job as a journalist. and this family of hers cannot mourn because there is no justice yet. not only must there be justice for daphne and her family but also justice for our press for the sake of our democracy. we need to look into the mirror, and there face what we might become if we do not make that justice happen.
madam president, we are dealing with a very serious issue because corruption is a cancer of democracy. and if this corruption is confined to the area of the extraction of european funds, it is all the more problematic, because in this case people are rightly worried, sad, angry. but if it is, what's going on here was explained today. a small proportion of subsidy applications deal with this corruption. now, those who are found must be punished and that simply has to be taken off the agenda. we can't do it in the way that the slovenian saying goes, if you want to have one steak, you don't go to the barn and kill the cow, you buy the steak. we must also look for such people, whether they are the babiši, orbán or whatever their spelling is, and make agricultural policy in the way of the european people. commissioner howard has proposed capping, capping, supporting small farms, also targets to be set, so we have to look at solutions in this direction.
madam president, there is no question of the need for the structural funds, the cohesion funds and the common agricultural policy to be properly implemented. the need to combat corruption and conflicts of interest in the implementation of these funds is not in question. but you will understand that we are questioning the timeliness of this debate and the motives behind it. it is at a time when some people want to cut the budget, precisely in these two areas, cohesion and agriculture, for the next seven years, that this debate is taking place. those who are already the biggest beneficiaries of integration, the single market, common policies, the euro, want to be the biggest beneficiaries of the budget too. this logic is also present in the proposal for the so-called budgetary capacity of the euro area which was discussed in the eurogroup. a logic of fair return, which is anything but fair, which accentuates inequalities and differences between states, which accentuates the benefits of some at the expense of others, which makes it so that, in order for some to gain along the whole line, others have to lose along the whole line. and that's what this is, and that's what this is all about, what we should be here discussing.
member of the commission. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, i would like to thank all those who have taken part in this debate from the beginning. i say this deliberately because the only member in the house who had complained about the empty seats left immediately after he had spoken. that's just for the sake of completeness. secondly, i would also like to thank the president-in-office for correcting the error rate. we want to remind you again: we have a very low error rate, and within that error rate, if you take the error rate as 100 percent, 98 percent are errors, and a very small percentage is really fraud. i would like to stress this point. i am grateful, however, for the very broad and general debate today, which i hope will also feed into the regulatory discussions on the next financial framework, on how to develop the conflict of interest area further, on how to achieve greater certainty in agriculture. i think that the remarks made by mr dorfmann, for example, are quite indicative. i would like to add to this the fact that we are seeing a trend today where large retail chains are acquiring agricultural land themselves, producing agricultural products there and thus actually creating a value chain from start to finish and here, frankly, competing with the actual farmers. as regards the immediate situation, i would like to point out once again that we have reacted quickly here as the commission, we have been on the spot with audits, but now we have the task of acting within the framework of our legal provisions and conditions, and these are laid down. and if we as the european union - parliament, the commission - detect shortcomings in the rule of law, we are also the first to be called upon to respect the principles of the rule of law to the letter. i therefore ask for your understanding that if the current rules provide for confidentiality, if the current rules provide for a certain procedure, that the other party can also react, etc., then this takes time. if you don't agree with these rules, you can change them. but for the time being, i am obliged to abide by these rules, and i will. the eppo will be responsible for the implementation of the european public prosecutor's office's mandate and will be responsible for the implementation of the european public prosecutor's office's mandate.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
in writing. andrás lánczi, the chairman of the századvég foundation, which is backed by the orbán government and fidesz with heavy public money, allowed himself to speak quite frankly in an earlier interview, which he gave to a pro-government newspaper also filled with public money. the general counsel stated that what they call corruption is practically the main policy of fidesz. it is impossible to summarize in a simpler, more honest and more credible way all that is happening in hungary.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on the eu strategy for people with disabilities beyond 2020 (2019/2975 ((rsp)). i would remind you that you can apply for the possibility of spontaneous verbal communication and the use of the blue card both in the usual way and by using the electronic system. instructions for use are available at the entrance to the chamber.
member of the commission. – mr president, addressing the rights of persons with disabilities is essential for this commission. the ratification by the eu of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities: we have all taken the legal and political commitment to implement it, and you can be assured that the commission remains fully committed to its implementation. i have the mandate to work closely with all commissioners to mainstream disability in all eu policy areas during this college’s mandate. according to the latest figures available to the commission, approximately 100 million persons in europe have a disability. they represent a very important share of the eu population, and they must by no means be left behind. the current european disability strategy 2010—2020 is the european union’s main instrument for implementing the un convention. our future policy will pursue the same objective. in my view, the fact that we have a long—term strategy has proven to be essential. proposing a new strategy for the next decade is certainly an option when evaluating the current one and considering the next steps. such a follow—up initiative should build on the values enshrined in our treaties and contribute to the implementation of the european pillar of social rights, as well as of the sustainable development goals. the commission is currently carrying out an external evaluation of the implementation of the current strategy. this is in line with the ‘evaluate first’ principle of our better regulation agenda. in consequence, the precise follow-up will be defined and agreed only once this evaluation is finalised by mid—2020. to improve coordination within the commission and to mainstream the equality dimension – including disability – into all relevant eu policies, we have set up an equality task force. we are committed to consult with the european parliament and to take into account the two reports it adopted these last years. we will, of course, consult with all relevant stakeholders, in particular with persons with disabilities and the organisations that represent them. for instance, the european economic and social committee unanimously adopted a valuable contribution to the debate just last week, and we are carefully studying those recommendations. on the basis of a thorough review of our european disability strategy, we will propose how best to move forward on implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd) and disability mainstreaming. our future disability policies will also have to take into account the changes affecting our societies. there are new challenges and also new opportunities. in this respect, i recall that the united nations convention recognises that women and girls with disabilities are subjected to multiple discrimination and calls on state parties to ensure the full and equal enjoyment by them of all human rights and fundamental freedoms. to this end, the future gender equality strategy announced by president von der leyen in her political guidelines will pay particular attention to groups facing multiple disadvantage, including women with disabilities. digitalisation and accessibility legislation have allowed us to lift some important barriers, but many hurdles still remain for people with disabilities, and in some cases, new barriers have appeared which need to be addressed. the fact that we are evaluating our current strategy does not prevent us from making further progress now. we already use – and will keep using – all tools available to achieve progress across europe. areas such as personal assistance or accessible and inclusive education are a primary responsibility of the member states. however, the commission is committed to keeping on working together with the member states and supporting them in their endeavours. the european semester and eu funds can be used for this purpose. european structural and investment funds already support the deinstitutionalisation and development of community-based services for persons with disabilities in the member states. for the future programming period, having a national framework for implementing the united nations convention is proposed by the commission as a pre-condition for receiving funding from any of the funds covered by the common provisions regulation. this condition needs to be met throughout the entire 2021-2027 period when implementing the funds. it also cemented the importance of promoting independent living and moving from institutional care to family- and community-based care. the commission is also working with the member states to ensure the correct transposition of the european accessibility act. a first informal meeting with the member states took place on 22 november 2019. more meetings are planned in the months to come. i now look forward to hearing your views on our future policies on disability.
president, commissioner, some people have to overcome many more hordes in life than others. when you have a work disability, the course you have to take is much more difficult. i therefore believe that it is our task to create genuine equality of opportunity for all in the new european disability strategy. after all, everyone deserves a fair chance at a job. if you're in a wheelchair or have a visual impairment or some kind of disorder, you're often underestimated. i would like to hear from the commission how it intends to change this. it is well known that the dutch government lags behind industry in the recruitment of people with disabilities. what about europe? if the european union as an employer sets a good example, then that is possible everywhere on the labour market. everyone should be able to participate in society without barriers. i think we should focus on this in the new action plan.
president, commissioner, in the last ten years a great deal has been done for people with disabilities. at policy level, there has been a shift from policies limited to the care aspect to policies aimed at full participation in society. the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and the european accessibility act, which were drafted under the leadership of former european commissioner marianne thyssen, are examples. however, there is still a lot of work to be done and the priorities for the next strategy need to be clearly defined. the full implementation of the un convention and the european accessibility act should be pursued. it is also necessary to ensure that both the regular labour market and the social economy are inclusive of people with disabilities. the use of the european social fund has already been mentioned in this connection. finally, full participation also means being able to make choices about individual care needs. it is therefore important to include european coordination of the assistance budget in the new strategy. we are a fully fledged society only when we have integral inclusion in all aspects of life.
madam president, every year one billion poultry and 37 million bovine, sheep, goats and horses are transported within the eu and to third countries – often over great distances and for a long time, and a lot of these animals do not survive. yes, there is regulation, but there is poor implementation and enforcement. certain member states – such as romania – do worse than others and continue to organise through that transport. this has to stop. i fully endorse my colleagues’ call to ban the transport of live animals. for too many of us, animal welfare is an unimportant subject. it was ghandi who said that the greatness of a nation and its moral progress can be judged by the way its animals are treated. let us hope the eu can be a great continent with high moral standards in this regard.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, we all agree, i think; i will not repeat what has been said about the added value of digitalising our healthcare in the domain of rare diseases and in the domain of research, to increase the efficiency of healthcare and health promotion and prevention. but – there is a but – data is the new gold, and we have just heard that there are some things we need to be careful about. selling data is not acceptable if we talk about health data, and we know that some patients are really worried about that. if we talk about data sharing – and you have said that you will do everything possible to make sure that these data are protected; we have the general data protection regulation (gdpr), which has implementation problems – we know that informed consent is important, and let’s not just go for opt-out systems. let’s anonymise data for research. but whatever system you put in place to have your european health data space, please build trust into the systems by design.
president, commissioner, the digitisation of healthcare will undoubtedly contribute to more patient-centred and personalised healthcare. last week, i visited a flemish start-up that specifically focuses on the digitization of healthcare. for example, measuring brain activity more efficiently can help to diagnose epilepsy more quickly and to give the right medication more precisely. these are examples that convince me of the added value of digitizing health care. the possibilities are endless: artificial intelligence in medical imaging, robotic surgery, telemedicine, precision medicine, and so on, and so on, and so on. we can take the lead as the european union if we join forces, including in the area of data protection. however, we will only be able to set true standards if every new development is aimed at improving the quality of care and the affordability and accessibility of health care, including for vulnerable groups.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). she wants to create jobs. she wants to create wealth. it wants to take the fight against climate change and involve our partners worldwide. the agreement with mercosur is in line with these ambitions. we are strengthening ties with latin america. our companies will be the first to have preferential access to a market which has been closed until now. this will create a huge number of jobs in the european union, but also in our partner countries. this agreement contains a very strong sustainability agreement. we're setting the bar high. the paris agreement is an essential part of that. there are measures to combat deforestation and agreements on reforestation. the precautionary principle is incorporated in it. and there 's more . the european union is setting the standards worldwide. the dispute settlement is a smart, sensible arrangement with dialogue, monitoring and capacity building. that is much better than a negative sanctioning regime which the partners will not accept anyway. they are our partners with whom we must enter into dialogue. finally, ladies and gentlemen, do you think that if we do not conclude this agreement, we will be better off? no, we are worse off, our partner countries are worse off.
madam president, is the europe-mercosur agreement compatible with the ambitions of the green deal for europe? yes, the european commission assures us: all future trade agreements will have to be compatible with the paris agreement. but how can we achieve a zero-carbon society by 2050 while continuing to conclude free trade agreements as we have for the past 20 years? the mercosur agreement will boost co2 emissions. did you know that for the agricultural sector alone, the amount of additional co2 emissions will be equal to the amount of emissions generated annually in brussels? at the madrid cop, brazil made a name for itself by preventing an ambitious climate agreement. and so, no, the eu-mercosur agreement does not guarantee that brazil is bound by the paris agreement, contrary to what the commission claims. the green deal provides for all sectors to contribute to the ecological and social transition. all sectors, and yet there are two, the agricultural model and trade policy, which will not achieve the objectives of the green deal unless they are profoundly reformed. the europe-mercosur agreement is a real test of credibility for the green deal. to ratify the first is to ruin the chances of success of the second.
president, ladies and gentlemen, with the european green deal of last week, the most ambitious european commission ever got off the ground. we are resolutely choosing to shift to a sustainable economy and a sustainable world for our children. we must also consider the ecological effects of our trade policy. here too, the taboos must be broken. agriculture is such a taboo. our agriculture is the cornerstone of our climate policy, and we are doing it right. but our european farmers do meet the highest environmental standards in the world. we all know that imported beef is more polluting than locally produced beef, but farmers are too often the beneficiaries of trade agreements, and this is also the case with mercosur trade agreements. i dare to raise questions about the agricultural chapter of this trade agreement. this allows the import duties for high-quality beef and veal to be reduced from 40% to 7.5% for 99 000 tonnes, while the carbon footprint of brazilian beef is just twice as high as that of belgian white and blue. should we import beef at all costs while supporting the sector here with subsidies or should we put more emphasis on the ecological aspect of trade?
mr president, my party colleague and n-va senator mark demesmaeker visited amaya coppens earlier this year. this 25-year-old belgian student is in prison in managua for protesting against the government of president ortega. thousands of people are in prison in nicaragua because they took to the streets for a free and democratic country that respects human rights and fundamental freedoms. has ortega forgotten that he himself was once in prison for protesting against his government? we therefore demand full implementation of the agreements of 29 march this year. we call on the nicaraguan government to open a dialogue and put an end to the continuing repression. democracy must be allowed to triumph again. that is to say: free and fair elections. "i'm staying here and i'm going to continue fighting for human rights here", were the words of amaya coppens. all those who are in prison because of their protest should be released immediately, including the 25-year-old girl. we have to help them.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, fgm affects every stage of your life. it becomes a part of who you are – your ability as a child to trust; how you feel when you fall in love; your experience when you are pregnant; the way you give birth. it changes how you love others, and how you love and treat yourself. fgm is the worst kind of violation to your body, your mind and your dignity at a time when you are a defenceless child, and it never goes away. you do your best to survive and thrive, but you must, because you end up keeping an eye on yourself to never forget your value is the same as everyone else’s. this is also my daily struggle – and that of 200 million women and girls worldwide, including the 500 000 who live in europe and the many victims who remain every day. change is too late, too little, too slow. we urgently need strategies and an action plan that achieve far-reaching and lasting impact. i was moved and very much inspired by the restorers, our finalists for the sakharov prize, who are here this week. they remind us that behind every action we take, every choice we make, there is a girl whose hopes and future or dreams rely upon us. we must first of all see them. we must hear them. we must protect them. we must together enable them to fulfil their potential and live a bright future.
madam president, female genital mutilation, or fgm, is one of the most extreme practices performed to control girls and women’s bodies and roles in society. as a gynaecologist and as a parliamentarian fighting for sexual and reproductive rights, i strongly condemn this abhorrent human rights violation. it causes horrendous suffering to women and girls around the entire world, and we have heard the figures: 200 million women worldwide; 500 000 in the eu; and 4.1 million girls at risk on every continent in the world, across all cultural and social-economic groups. we will need the whole world to bring this practice to an end. we will need both women and men to stand up condemning this practice. we need politicians from all parties to condemn the practice, without falling into hate speech or spreading misconceptions. europe should continue to take the lead in ending this fgm, once and for all, around the whole world, and i therefore applaud this call for an eu strategy to put an end to fgm around the world.
- a writer. mr president, my heart is bleeding because my homeland, burkina faso, once a secular country, is groaning under the terror of islamic radicalisation and violence by jihadist terrorists. they first sowed death and destruction in syria and now threaten the whole of the sahel with their horrible ideology of death. by attacking churches and mosques, they have only one goal: destroy the community. they're focusing on those places where people come together, pray, laugh, sing and love each other. regional terrorism has global consequences. the geopolitical implications can be enormous, especially for europe, first and foremost in the area of migration. but let us not forget the attacks in the heart of our union. this is why the eu must continue to support the sahel countries in order to guarantee security in the region. but sustainable development and a strong trade policy in the context of the eu-africa strategy are also essential. prosperity is often a bulwark against terror regimes. we cannot leave burkina faso and the sahel behind. otherwise, a fire will start and the sparks will soon spread to europe. remember this: burkina was secular.
