member of the commission. – madam president, the transport sector is changing very fast. we must act now to shape this change and to make european mobility more sustainable, safer and more accessible. action is necessary if we are to make european industry more competitive and european jobs more secure. these realities are very well reflected in the report prepared by mr van de camp, which supports more action, including at eu level. let me say a few words about how to achieve sustainability. transport is a major contributor to both greenhouse gas emissions and air pollution. our commitment to fighting climate change thus requires the decarbonisation of our mobility. cooperative and automated mobility is part of the solution, as it enables smoother traffic flows. my thanks for your support for this objective. now on road safety. not so long ago, vision zero – no road fatalities on european roads by 2050 – seemed an ambitious but distant vision. with the adoption of the commission strategy on cooperative intelligent transport systems, we have reached an important milestone. with mobility package iii, in addition to our fresh, safe system approach for road safety, we proposed a strategy that should help make the eu a global leader in automated mobility. this strategy is based on three pillars. first, a legal framework that creates a single market for automated mobility. second, financial support for a sector-wide approach to research and eu—wide deployment. and third, an in-depth assessment of the socio—economic and ethical aspects of automated mobility. vehicles become increasingly clean, connected and automated and ultimately driverless, with zero-emissions. at the same time, citizens’ demands in terms of mobility are growing and their attitude to mobility is changing. they want to shift seamlessly between different transport modes and enjoy easy access to travel information. vehicles can become an integral part of multi-model mobility, providing first- and last-mile services and inclusive solutions for the elderly, the disabled and young people. but before we get there, we need to tackle issues related – as you mentioned as well – to security, data protection, fair and equal access to data, liability and ethical implications and the integration of automated vehicles into existing traffic, public acceptance, and our skills agenda. to progress on all these issues, i would like to highlight three elements for the many actions we have defined. creating a single platform for cooperative, connected and automated mobility where all stakeholders come together to advance our ambitious agenda. the second pillar is setting up a joint undertaking for this cooperative, connected and automated mobility combining public and private efforts to accelerate the development and deployment of innovative mobility solutions. i have noted, and i thank you for, your support on this as well. third, we propose to revise eu rules on vehicle safety and provide the relevant eu framework for the approval of automated and connected vehicles. here too, i would like to thank you for your support, but i really call for discussions on the legal text to be finalised by the end of this parliament. we really have no time to waste. as you can see, the future of mobility and the place of the end-user in it are at the centre of our thinking and our actions. we must remember that mobility is the cornerstone of freedom of movement for people and goods, and it is fundamental to the smooth functioning of the european union.
madam president, last week the european parliament's committee on transport and tourism rejected two of the three proposals related to the so-called 'macron' package or 'mobility' package. in doing so, it acknowledged the complete bankruptcy of these proposals, their cynical character, the attempt, through a proposal from the european parliament, to steal the business of hundreds of thousands of eastern entrepreneurs and peripheral entrepreneurs in general. these cynical proposals have exposed the double standards in relations between east and west. they have exposed the attempt, by non-market methods, by hindering free competition, by distorting the free market, to create obstacles for the carriers and for the workers from eastern europe and from the peripheral countries and to turn them into immigrants. this package is a failure, a proven failure. we demand that this package be withdrawn and considered in the next parliament. this parliament has run its course, has no political weight and should not be making decisions which affect hundreds of millions of people across the european continent. i urge the board of governors to withdraw this package and not vote on it now.
madam president, we are talking about a crisis in the mediterranean today, but we are not witnessing a new crisis, nor are we talking about large numbers of people. and at the same time, the european union is paralyzed about where to relocate 40 new people after so many years of not being able to relocate the thousands of refugees from italy and greece. after at least three or four years of trying to reform the european asylum and migration system, we have failed. the way we can deal with any refugee or migration crisis that comes is by completing asylum reform so that it is clear who is responsible for asylum seekers, who processes their applications, and how exactly asylum seekers are differentiated from economic migrants. it is important that this reform takes the burden off the border countries of first entry, such as malta, greece, italy and even bulgaria, and ensures that all eu member states, regardless of their geographical location, assume their responsibility.
in writing. i listened to the debate on migration in the european parliament and i heard a lot of nonsense. we need to build air bridges between europe and africa. soon the dreadful judgment will come and we who refuse to accept these migrants into our own homes will be judged by it. everyone has to take responsibility for the migrants, even if we didn't invite them. that's the truth! my country and many others have not invited any migrants and we do not want to accept them, whoever invited them, be so kind and accept them and take care of them. we must protect our external borders, as my country is, because if it is not protected, it is not a border, but a line of thought. we have to distinguish between political migrants and/or those fleeing war and economic immigrants. this distinction should be made outside europe. we should be taking aid to these people outside europe, not bringing them into europe and then causing problems here. i see the concern of our liberal colleagues, the concern that in the next parliament there will be many more people like me here and we will solve the problem of migrants in the way that europe deserves, not in the way they want!
the rapporteur cult. mr president, in its opinion on the proposal for a regulation establishing the invest eu programme, the european parliament's committee on culture and education stressed the need for additional investments in the fields of culture, education and youth. the investments in culture and education will help to preserve europe's cultural heritage, which has undoubtedly played a civilizing role in the development of world history. the 'invest eu' programme also needs to help smes to be competitive in the fast-changing environment of global competition and the use of new technologies. i am sure that this will lead to the creation of new jobs in the cultural and creative sectors. however, the more important effect is undoubtedly the preservation of local and national identity and self-awareness. the cultural heritage of each member country is based on this identity and self-awareness. i therefore believe that every eu member state, as well as every region, should make the most of the opportunities offered by invest eu. this would help to preserve the regional and, above all, the national identity of the european peoples.
member of the commission. – mr president, since 2007 the european globalisation fund has been a key european instrument to show solidarity with workers who have lost their jobs due to globalisation, related changes in world trade patterns or the global financial and economic crisis. since its launch in 2007, the fund has mobilised eur 631 million for 160 cases targeting almost hundred 150 000 dismissed workers, including neets in the most recent years at least. but the world of work has changed significantly since then, and it is high time to update the egf regulation to reflect better the current economic and social context. therefore, i am pleased to see that, overall, the european parliament supports our proposal for the globalisation fund regulation for the next mff. in particular, i welcome the fact that parliament supports the wider scope and the lowering of the thresholds that we proposed. i warmly thank the rapporteur, ms maria arena, and all the members of the employment committee and the associated committee for their hard work on this file and i particularly welcome the speed with which parliament proceeded. parliament has made various amendments, and i welcome a number of them as they clarify our texts or usefully add to or change elements. on some other amendments we have hesitations, and i’m grateful for the possibility to mention two of them here. one of the key features of our proposal was the accelerated mobilisation procedures. reintroducing the same mobilisation procedures as in the current regulation will make it impossible to reduce the length of the procedure, and therefore we would lose the opportunity to mobilise the funds and actually help displaced workers more swiftly. we also have hesitations as regards the further lowering of the threshold of these placements and extending the reference periods. the egf interventions are justified by the major adverse shock on the local economy caused by dismissals. if we further reduce the already low threshold proposed by the commission – we go from 500 to 250 in our proposal – then we risk diluting the argument of a major shock and call into question the eu added value. i am eager to listen to the debate. i thank you already for all the work you have done so far.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. – mr president, three principal points from the committee on budgetary control. first, particular emphasis shall lie on measures that help the most disadvantaged groups and on member states and the regions that have been hardest hit and where the national and regional authorities lack adequate resources for taking the necessary measures. whenever the cessation of activity concerns a profit—making enterprise, the company concerned shall contribute to the reintegration of displaced workers, preferably in the context of a social plan. third, should the commission implement technical assistance under indirect management, it shall ensure the transparency of the procedure for designating the third party responsible for carrying out the task assigned to it, and shall inform the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) stakeholders, including the european parliament, of the sub—contractors selected for that purpose.
member of the commission. – mr president, i warmly welcome the political commitment shown and the hard work done by the european parliament, the lead and the associated committees and, in particular, the rapporteur, ms lope fontagné, in the swift preparation of parliament’s report. you have really done your utmost to advance this legislative proposal within the term of this parliament. i am very pleased that parliament largely shares the commission’s ambitions and objectives for the european social fund plus (esf+), an integrated fund with a substantial budget to implement the principle of the european pillar of social rights, and linked to the european semester. it is also a fund with simpler and more flexible management, and this will create more added value for its end-users, i.e. our citizen: for example, in modernising and improving the labour markets, ensuring good healthcare, targeting the assistance to those who need it most, and contributing to an overall stronger social dimension of the european union. in short, the esf+ will contribute to a more social europe. parliament has proposed various amendments. i welcome a number of them as they clarify our text or usefully add or change elements of it. there are some others on which we have hesitation. the thematic concentration requirements – in plain words, the earmarking of parts of the budget – are the focus of most of parliament’s proposed amendments. let me underline here that, in our view, pre-allocating esf+ national envelopes even further than in our proposal would significantly reduce the flexibility of the fund. this would prevent member states reacting to evolving social needs, something we know happens in reality. it would also limit the possibility of responding to particular issues which member states are facing and which are identified in the european semester process. turning to the specific amendment proposals related to the employment and social innovation (esi) strand of the esf+, our proposal seeks to bring this strand closer to the esf. i note with satisfaction that parliament supports the proposed merger of the funds. but let me again highlight the need for flexibility as we proposed it for the esi strand. re-introducing fixed percentages for sub-strands would reduce this flexibility and hence make it more difficult to react to new challenges. last, but not least, parliament, in particular the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), proposes significant amendments to the health strand for the esf+. i note that many of these proposals seem to reflect a desire to keep the health programme as a separate instrument, as it is today. while respecting parliament’s view, the commission is convinced that greater synergies and coherence between programmes, and closer coordination and consistency, will maximise the impact of eu health measures and will benefit citizens, health professionals and policymakers. the new architecture of the esf+ will not only preserve a specific health strand, which will continue to support public health policies to fulfil the objective of ensuring a high level of health protection, but will also ensure that, wherever they are relevant, health aspects are addressed in all social spending. as always, honourable members, i am now eager to listen to the debate.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. – mr president, it is the strong conviction of the committee on budgetary control (cont) that, under shared management, the european social fund plus (esf+) should pursue the goal of ‘investment for jobs and growth’, as set out in the future common provisions regulation (cpr), and contribute to the policy objective of a more social europe, implementing the european pillar of social rights set out in the same regulation. in accordance with this policy objective, the esf+ should support a number of specific objectives, of which the first is to improve access to quality and sustainable employment that adheres to all existing union labour laws and respects the rights of all job seekers – in particular the young and long—term unemployed and inactive people – while promoting self—employment and the social economy.
in writing. the british political elite, all together, were slowly and gradually pushing the boat towards a clash. we've been watching it for two years, like a disaster in slow motion, and we can't do anything because the signals from britain were the most diverse, and we can't take sides. theresa may does not have a majority in the british parliament on brexit issues. the worst case scenario is a no-deal exit. the best thing for european citizens now is a delay to brexit and an extension beyond 29 march 2019. this option would also have chaos and tension, but only within the eu institutions, because the budget and the european elections are planned without britain. the next few weeks are going to be crucial.
mr president, i would like to address the prime minister. you mentioned the need for new legitimacy for democracy in europe and you appealed for more european democracy. don’t you feel that people feel deprived of their sovereignty, of the right to decide their own future? regions are being massively depopulated, deindustrialised. the people working there feel they have no say as to how their lives will develop. what would you say about the notion of sovereign democracy, which in a new way matches the will of the people to have a say in their future, and join this with the understanding that europe has to have a new beginning. this challenge, prime minister, is central to every issue that was up for discussion, from brexit to catalonia.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report on the new european social fund+ as it is primarily concerned with tackling key social challenges. tackling child poverty, youth unemployment and the existing mismatch between education systems and the labour market must be key priorities. otherwise, the european union will continue to face strong economic and social pressures that threaten the well-being of our citizens. i believe that overcoming inequalities must start at the earliest childhood, and i therefore welcome the allocation of 5% of the european social fund+ to implement a european child guarantee scheme. child poverty is a phenomenon that affects almost half of the children in bulgaria, who are deprived of access to healthcare, education and care. this statistic sounds shocking for a country that has been a member of the european union since 2007. it is our duty to provide young people with a development perspective to stop the depopulation of the regions.
mr president, with this report we are sending a clear signal to the european commission and to the industry that, as far as the authorisation and even the use of plant protection products is concerned, things cannot remain as they are today. full transparency is required during the approval procedure. do we need to have a case like duane johnson in europe -- the american gardener who had cancer -- to make this change? a more substantial financial resource is needed for the european food safety authority (efsa) and more resources for the development of new non-chemical methods for plant protection. some of the current preparations pose a risk to beneficial pollinators, such as bees. so, in addition to threatening their health, we are also threatening biodiversity and the livelihoods of beekeepers. serious efforts are also needed to combat the illegal import of pesticides, as well as other preparations from third countries. more control of the bulgarian border posts, as the external border of the eu, is clearly urgent. unapproved preparations can pose a direct risk to the health of european citizens, but also an indirect one to many economic sectors.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam president, i would like to thank you for your commissioner, madam, i have to ask you to stop. minister, this year marks the 30th anniversary of the fall of the communist regime in eastern europe. when this parliament adopted the resolution on european conscience and totalitarianism 10 years ago, we launched the debate on the formation of a common reading of european history by condemning all the totalitarian regimes of the 20th century. by equating the suffering caused by both fascism and national socialism and communism. by rethinking them and drawing lessons from the tragic events of the history of the western european peoples as well as the history of the peoples of eastern europe. lessons to promote democracy, the european unity we so badly need today, the rule of law, respect for human dignity and freedom. at the same time, lessons to be learned to prevent hatred, xenophobia and authoritarian or totalitarian ideas from spreading in european societies. ten years later, my personal assessment is that for various reasons, this debate never took place. during this period, the european union was faced with new challenges, which it would have responded to more successfully if it had learned from its history. i think europe today needs a reboot of the debate. we're not doing enough to deal with the resurrection of the ghosts of the past. nationalism and populism are fuelled by a lack of memory and understanding of our history, of the role of european integration in healing the deep wounds of totalitarian regimes in europe. it is enough to look at some countries where, frustrated by the precarious economic present and social inequality, young people support extreme right-wing or left-wing parties to see how great the danger of repeating the tragic mistakes of the past is. that is why it is so important to pass on the memory so that young europeans do not become victims of political players who offer easy solutions to very complex social problems. when we do not pass on the memory of past events, we allow younger generations to be misled by propaganda and disinformation campaigns, both for national socialism and for communist regimes, which to this day enjoy nostalgia because of ignorance of the scale and duration of their crimes. what this leads to is seen very clearly in russia and other countries where there are worrying trends of growing nostalgia for stalinism. there are different policies that individual eu member states apply, but one of them is universal and can be a model everywhere. and that is education. through education, the next generation of europeans, whether in western, central, eastern, northern or southern europe, should have a glimpse of the totalitarian regimes of the 20th century and know that the freedom, democracy and human rights they enjoy today have been sacrificed by millions. to know that freedom is not a given, and as ronald reagan said, it is always one generation away from extinction and must be defended. yesterday, in this chamber, we celebrated the 20th anniversary of the introduction of the euro, but it is good to remember that the european union is not just a common market and currency, but above all a guarantor of freedom, peace, democracy and respect for human rights on our continent. the european union is the answer to the horrors of totalitarianism, which has oppressed and restricted at the cost of millions of innocent victims, destruction and immeasurable suffering. today, when we are faced with the challenge of protecting our value system, we need to be more aware than ever of the threats posed by the lack of historical memory. let us use education to preserve this unique project for the next generation of europeans, rather than allowing them to fall victim to ignorance and manipulation that persistently instill nostalgia for bygone days of totalitarian regimes.
mr president, the historical memory of the totalitarian past is a subject which must be approached with sensitivity and with the necessary distance in time, especially as regards the time of communism in countries of the former eastern bloc, such as bulgaria. the memories of this period of bulgarian history are still alive and i believe that when communism is studied in school by the current generation, the historical reading should be objective, not ideologized and politicized. in the new version of bulgarian history textbooks, communism is described as the darkest period of our history, it is presented as worse than the era of turkish slavery. but the reality is different. research shows that a significant proportion of bulgarians would prefer to live in communist times. i'll tell you why. because the bulgarians in the transition period and afterwards actually live worse and barely make ends meet. because in the last ten years borisov's policies have further deepened the inequalities in society. i wonder why the rulers instead of dividing the nation into communists and anti-communists and making attempts to change history, do not focus on...
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, just quickly – three elements which have not been mentioned during this debate, at least not too many times, but which are anyway very important and concern what the eib is doing. advisory services, equity operations – which are relatively new elements in the bank’s operations – and cooperation with national promotional banks. these three elements are also very important when looking at what the bank should do in the future to be an active partner in all these areas. there were some critical voices – only a few – but i want to remind everybody that the eib is a demand-driven bank. the eib doesn’t force anybody to borrow, but it serves clients who go to the bank and ask for financial instruments. so the eib is not the magic medicine for all the diseases we can imagine. the eib is just a financer, also providing technical assistance. and when it comes to greece, thanks to the eib greek small and medium-sized enterprises have managed to get financing for their projects. everybody knows that smes play a significant role in the greek economy and for good reasons – or for the reasons we all know – the greek banks have not been able to provide for the needs of smes. but the eib, through efsi, as well as through other operators, has been doing so. so the eib is doing a lot in the fields of addressing climate change and environmental projects, but the bank must also be aware of the portfolio risks. it has increased significantly climate financing but everything depends on the clients as to whether there are viable, bankable projects. so the eib is not a policymaker, but it’s a financial arm of the eu, and we have to recognise this.
president of the european investment bank. – madam president, this has been quite a bouquet of questions and comments that i’ve heard and i probably will not be able to respond to all of them right away in respecting the time limitations that we have, but i promise you that our brussels office will be in touch with each and every one of you who has put a question that i cannot respond to, and in some cases it is not just a factual response that would be necessary. it would be a political debate, for instance on the question of the trajectory towards zero carbon, which is a very important issue for the bank, and i think we are on the right track. however, the bank is not the policy setter in the european union. we can contribute to reaching objectives. we are doing this by investing more than 23 billion over the last five years in renewables, by pledging to go all the way up to 100 billion since paris for climate change and we are ready to do more, not only on the projects side but also on the financing side. the invention of green bonds by the eib was one of the major steps in the preparation of the international finance community in order to address climate change issues. however, i must be quite clear that we have a big problem internationally on standards and criteria. when you talk about a green bond for instance, you don’t simply take a piece of paper painted green and say this is a green bond now. you need to have clear standards, you need to have a taxonomy and so far we don’t have that. if i listen at international conferences to the presentation of other institutions and admire their enormous figures on climate change-related projects, and i then go a little bit more deeply into what is in there, what is behind that, then i find out that we don’t read from the same textbook and we don’t have the same criteria, and we must arrive at that. we must arrive at a taxonomy that is relevant for all multilateral financial institutions and also national promotional institutions. i think a great job needs to be done. it has been done for green bonds to a large extent, there has been an international accord on this. we need similar things for sustainability awareness bonds because there we have the same issue, the same challenge, and we have developed the first sustainability awareness bonds for water projects because the markets are particularly far advanced there, so comparability can be achieved, but the next issues will have to be health-related and education-related and there it will be very difficult again. so i ask for your support when going for international agreements on these issues. second point, one of the big changes over the last couple of years is that with the juncker plan we were able to address the challenges of this decade. but the countercyclical role of the bank which we adopted at that time is to a large extent done. we not there yet completely but a lot has been done. i think we now have the obligation to look a little bit closer, and with more resolve to the position of the european union and its member states in the globalisation process and in international competition, and we are losing ground from day to day. for 15 years now the member states of the european union have been investing 1.5% of gdp less per year in innovation, research, development and education than our main competitors in asia and north america. nobody should believe that this goes without a loss of competitiveness and therefore i see a particular challenge for the eib to contribute to better financing of innovation in the next couple of years, and i say innovation in the widest sense, that begins, so to speak, in kindergarten and elementary school. i’d like to say one word about our activities outside the european union and i thank you very much for your support there. we are a tool of the european union also outside the european union and i think we can be very effective. somebody spoke about soft power, but then we must be given a mandate for that. the external lending mandate of the european union for the eib is under great threat if you expect us to do more, and i would be happy to do more, not only in africa but also in our strategic relationship, for instance with latin america and asean. i could give other examples as well. we would be happy to do that but that requires a strengthening of the external lending mandate of the european union for its bank. finally africa. i think we europeans have to think about how it came that it took the migration crisis to make us aware of the challenges of africa. africa is not just a continent that is important for us in terms of a source of migration. it is a strategic partner for the next couple of years and we must develop our development policies from a donor-recipient thinking to a partnership thinking with africa, that, thank god, has now started and we want to play a significant role in that context.
rapporteur. – madam president, as you pointed out, it is most welcome that we have president hoyer here personally for this annual discussion of the topic of the control and financial activities of the european investment bank. i have had the privilege of closely following the activities of the bank from this perspective, both as rapporteur for the committee on budgetary control and as shadow rapporteur, for getting on for five years. i am glad to present today a report which builds on parliament’s positions from previous years and which has received very strong support in the committee. i would also like to highlight that the report points out that the bank’s lending activities for 2017 amounted to eur 69.9 billion and the conclusion of the audit committee was that the financial statements adopted by the eib board of directors present a true and fair view of the financial position of the bank as of 31 december 2017 and of the results of its operation and cash flows for 2017 in accordance with the applicable accounting framework. at the same time, the report refers to a continuing concern having to do with the geographical distribution of the signatures of the bank, a theme which we have been returning to over the past years. for this year the data shows, and the report underlines, the highly worrying fact that in 2017 half of the member states received 80% of the total eib investment inside the eu, while the other 14 member states received only 10% of this investment. i highlight this point in the light of what commissioner katainen, and to a certain extent president hoyer, pointed out in the previous discussion, namely that the eib is a passive recipient of project demands and, on the basis of its commercial assessment, finances some of these projects and not others. this does not correspond to the statutory obligation of the bank to play an active role for the balanced development of the internal market, and for the social, economic and territorial cohesion. certainly nobody questions the need for sound investments, but clearly the role of the bank cannot be reduced to a passive recipient of requests for financing. there is a key requirement of the bank to perform, and this is pointed out in the recitals of the report, regular and thorough needs assessments in various sectors, and this is key for determining investment gaps and barriers in different investment regions, and identifying a pool of opportunities for potential for growth in job investment. regarding the governance of the bank, which is strictly within the committee on budgetary control’s remit, i would like to point out that there has been progressive response by the bank in line with parliamentary resolutions in making better access to minutes of the meetings of the various bodies of the bank, in improving the complaints procedures, which are applied by the bank. and in this regard, i would like to welcome the efforts made. in conclusion, however, i would like to point out that there are still significant problems in respect of preventing conflicts of interests among the members of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) investment committee and the enacting of more stringent rules and provisions to prevent conflicts of interests on the management board and board of directors, as well as regarding transparency and disclosure of information and intermediaries and final recipients, in relation to prevention of tax avoidance, fraud and corruption. i realise i have overrun by 30-40 seconds. i will economise on my final remarks.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the report. the pivotal role of the bank is to ensure value-adding strategic public investment supporting sustainable growth and creating high value jobs within the eu. as an example, the overall financing as approved by the eib group within the eu in 2015-2016 will support eur 544 billion of investment up 2.3% to gdp and create 2.25 million jobs by 2020. in 2017 the eib successfully achieved its objectives, implementing eu policy in line with its mission, as detailed in its operational plan. the bank lending signature reached almost eur 70 billion, of which 90% was within the union. this financial resource was dedicated to four strategic areas: innovation and skills; infrastructure; environmental projects; and smes and midcaps. smes received more than 40% of the whole sum, which corresponds to their role as a backbone of the european economy. results will be better with proactive policy and increasing the funding to these enterprises. we are satisfied with the conclusion of the audit committee that the financial statement, adopted by the eib board of directors, presents a true and fair view of the financial position of the bank and of the results of its operational and cash flows. better corporate governance would be achieved paying greater attention to meet the long-term effects when defining investment actions in its funding decisions. in order to speed up the economic recovery in the union and to help certain economic sectors and geographical areas to catch up, a major role is played in the european funding for strategic investments. with mobilised investment at the end of 2017 exceeding eur 207 billion, efsi is on the way to reach its goal. despite the need to avoid some of the geographical imbalances, the improvement in transparency is visible with the publication of the efsi investment committee decisions and the documents adopted by the steering board together within the minutes of the meetings.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to praise the work that member kelly has done in his constituency. i know he’s not the only one who has done the same, but i wanted to raise his work as an example because it is exactly what we need. we need to tell our citizens – our companies – what is available, how they can benefit from the european investment bank and what efsi can offer, because otherwise there is a risk that people don’t know. eu institutions and even our financial instruments are not as simple to understand as a normal bank loan from a local bank and that’s why we have to spread the word. the reason why some member states have benefited more than others and some regions have benefited more than others, for instance from efsi, is mostly because there have been active politicians or public authorities which have told citizens and companies what is available. my second point is just to thank members for a substantial, civilised and rather consensual discussion on this issue. it’s a good basis to continue cooperation. (applause)
president of the european investment bank. – madam president, i am now in a little bit of a dilemma. i’ve just been criticised for overdrawing my time account and i have roughly 20 questions that deserve precise answers, so please forgive me if i don’t address them all, but i promise again that you will get the answers in an appropriate way and as soon as possible. a few general remarks. the question of regional distribution begins to touch my nerves, because i think that everybody who has a feeling that his or her own country has maybe one per mil less than their neighbour is complaining about regional distribution. i told you the facts and figures about efsi projects. in general, for all eib projects the gdp-based distribution of the lending shows greece number 1, cyprus number 2, portugal number 3, croatia number 4 and poland number 5. is that so wrong? i think this is exactly the priority setting that you’re expecting from us. so i think we are making real progress on that question. second issue, i just wanted to throw into the debate the word infrastructure, as i heard it several times. the european union has a significant problem with infrastructure, the quality of the infrastructure. we are not investing enough in the maintenance of our infrastructures, which leads to a structural degradation of the quality. we need to address this issue. it is much more sexy to build new things than to maintain old ones, but this is an issue we have to address. a very interesting question that somebody raised about start-ups. we have a serious problem here in corporate financing in europe in general, but in start-up financing in particular. the fact is that roughly 75% of all corporate financing in europe is via banks and not via capital markets. in the us it’s exactly the other way round, and this is the reason why sometimes, when an intelligent inventor develops something new, opens a market, develops a new product, then he or she might be very, very successful in the start-up phase but then comes growth financing and for growth financing we don’t have enough instruments. i would love to see eib activities developing further in this field because i hate seeing sometimes the most promising products leaving europe and then being developed with huge money in other continents. by the way, we measure the employment effects of our activities as precisely as we can, so maybe we can give you a couple of figures afterwards. but i just saw that, for instance, our analysis shows that in 2018 the number of smes supported was 285 000 and the number of jobs maintained in smes and midcaps was 3.9 million. we probably need to publish these figures more loudly and with more self-esteem. financing, well long-term financing. ladies and gentlemen, some of you want to see us as a commercial bank and some want to see us as a political instrument. we are both. we need to perform in several areas like a commercial bank because we are refinancing completely on the capital markets. we must have the trust and the confidence of the investors, otherwise they don’t give us 60, 70, 80 billion per year in eib bond purchases. on the other hand, we serve a public goal. our objectives are set by you and the council and the commission, and that means that we have to reconcile the role of a public institution with commercial behaviour and expertise on the markets, and i think we are quite successful in doing that. on the question of transparency, ms gräßle, i share your view and i think we are making progress, but we still can get better. but there are two small issues i would like to address. number one, please bear in mind that the eib is a very lean institution. we have 3 500 people in the bank. it sounds a lot, but we are doing twice the volume of the world bank with this, and eight times the volume of the european bank for reconstruction and development. the world bank has 18 000 people and the ebrd in london 2 500 people. so we are a lean institution. sometimes we are criticised for not being represented visually with official offices in all member states of the european union. yes, we try to be as efficient as possible. please take this as a serious effort to be visible and available everywhere, but at a cost reduction or a containment strategy that we pursue. and the last word, ms gräßle, on gender. well, you run into open doors with me and whenever a member state comes with a new proposal for the management committee and the member state proposes a lady i will embrace that immediately. spain has just done so and i’m very grateful for that, but we could definitely have more. but this is not in the hands of the management of the bank. this is exclusively in the hands of the member states. when it comes to our top managerial personnel we have made progress in the seven years that i am at the bank now from 18% to 26% in the top positions. so we are moving in the right direction, but it cannot come overnight because you need a couple of years of career at the bank in order to get there, but i promise you i’ll have that in view in each and every personnel decision we take as long as we don’t discriminate against the other gender. (applause)
rapporteur. – madam president, first, of course, i would like to thank all those who commended the report. i would like to point out that this is a report by the whole committee and i take certain credit in the name of the committee for what president hoyer has highlighted – the steps in the direction of greater transparency and greater accountability. i believe that this is an example of the usefulness of these types of discussions on this type of the report. so i think we can be satisfied from that point of view. i also would like to return to the geographical aspect. what the president has told us are figures which also show increased awareness and movement towards a better distribution. at the same time, you will agree that a proportion of 80-10 is anything but a sustainable balance and clearly, here, there is a challenge to be met. i would also finally like to mention that the type of discussion we have had, the fact that the president has been as outgoing as possible – and a bit excited at the end, if i may say – is a good sign of commitment for further progress.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on regional development. mr president, commissioner, the committee on regional development, in its adopted opinion on the report under consideration, first of all emphasises that democracy and the rule of law, respect for fundamental human rights, are key to the credibility of the european union. however, any decision to impose appropriate measures in the event of widespread non-compliance with the rule of law should provide robust safeguards following an impact assessment to ensure that the final recipients of european union funds are not adversely affected. the scope and level of the suspension imposed should be proportionate, respect equal treatment of member states and take into account the economic and social conditions in the country concerned and their impact on the economy. in the case of widespread non-respect of the rule of law, the measures set out in the regulation on common provisions and provisions of general application may also apply to the european structural and investment funds, under which the commission implements the budget of the european union in shared management. in order to strengthen the protection of end-users of the european union support, the commission should actively monitor compliance with the legal obligation of public authorities and member states to continue payments and to inform final recipients of their rights when infringements are detected.
mr president, in order to protect the union’s budget and financial interests for the next multiannual financial framework (mff), we need a new regulation that is not a sanctioning mechanism, but rather a tool to ensure sound financial management. the regulation includes under the term rule of law all the union’s values enshrined in article 2 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the copenhagen criteria for union membership, including fundamental rights. a generalised deficiency as regards the rule of law may affect the principles of sound financial management or the protection of the financial interests of the union. the commission should establish an advisory panel of independent experts, which would undertake an independent annual assessment of the rule of law situation in all member states. the commission, when making its decisions, should take into account the relevant panel’s opinion. in order to strengthen the protection of final recipients or beneficiaries, the regulation proposes additional measures. the commission shall also ensure that any amount due by government entities or member states is paid to the beneficiaries. a positive characteristic of the regulation is that the parliament is put on an equal footing with the council in the process of adopting or lifting their respective measures. the commission submits a proposal to parliament and the council to transfer to a budgetary reserve the respective amounts, which would enter into force only if both institutions do not reject it.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would point out that our proposal also includes funding, which instead of the 80% co-financing proposed by the commission should be at the level of 86%. let me express my gratitude to both the main rapporteur, mrs harms, and to mr werner langen, because we have had an excellent working relationship, both with regard to the lithuanian dossier and with regard to the dossier on bulgaria, slovakia and the joint research centre of the european union. i would like to highlight the proposal that the joint research centre should in future disseminate the knowledge acquired in the decommissioning of nuclear installations. i also want to note the pain that was felt by the societies in these countries in their adoption - in bulgaria, slovakia and lithuania - and also to note that we want the commission and the council to take a serious note of the increased amount that we are proposing of eur 780 million, because there is certainly one thing that cannot be compromised with, and that is nuclear safety.
mr president, commissioner, i welcome the regulation and the good amendments made by the rapporteur, mrs harms, to continue the european union's support for the ignalina decommissioning programme. the proposed eur 780 million for the next period represents adequate funding for the programme, which is in line with the expert opinion and meets the realistic timetables for the implementation of the huge volume of activities. the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiaries of the aid is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure that the aid is compatible with the internal market. i do not share the view that greater co-financing by the member state would lead to a more efficient use of the funds. i support keeping the current allocation of funding from the european union and lithuania at 86% and 14% respectively. any increase in co-financing would represent a significant financial burden for the country. it is not fair to the population and would damage the reputation of the european union in fulfilling its obligations to lithuania for decommissioning the ignalina npp.
madam president, i voted against the report by my colleague, not because money should not be given for the decommissioning of the ignalina reactors, but because i am voting against the double standard in the european union and against the imposition of decisions by force, despite the opinions of its citizens. freedom, democracy and the right of the people to decide their own destiny are the greatest values and they must be imposed on this union too. i stand with the over 1 million people who 10 years ago rejected the brussels dictate and voted to keep their nuclear power plant. just as we in bulgaria fought and continue to fight to keep our nuclear power plants at kozloduy fully safe. the european union, in a not very democratic way, forced bulgaria, lithuania and slovakia to shut down operating nuclear power plants that produced cheap electricity. he knew very well that stopping and decommissioning these nuclear power plants in kozloduy, ignalina and bohunice before they ran out of resources was a stupid and economically unreasonable decision. after all, the union ordered the closure of those plants. lithuania, which used to rely on this plant for 70% of its electricity consumption, is now the largest importer of electricity from nuclear power plants.
madam president, i voted strongly against this report because i do not think that the commission's proposal for a new regulation on the existing procedure laid down in article 7 of the treaty on european union could achieve anything more than an unnecessary administrative burden. the imposition of financial penalties for disrespect of so-called 'union values' often serves to achieve illegitimate political objectives and to combat political opponents in the states. i do not agree that the citizens of the european union should pay the price, since they are the final users of the financial assistance provided by brussels. it is hypocritical to violate the sovereign rules of the member states. the examples of hungary and poland in recent years are telling. the european union should not impose its interests on countries and the interests of countries like france and germany at the expense of the countries of central and eastern europe, as we see, among other things, in the 'mobility' package. the imposition of financial penalties will achieve nothing but skepticism and the breakdown of the existing system. the european union needs to be reformed, because offering these double standards will not do any good.
madam president, i did not support the report by mrs valero on the creation of a programme on 'rights and values' because i believe that the purpose of this instrument is to serve as a political struggle and to interfere in the internal affairs of sovereign member states. we have all witnessed an unacceptable, undemocratic interference in the sovereign affairs of poland and hungary and the start of scandalous criminal proceedings against them. i consider the proposal to add a new specific objective, relating to democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law, and to finance the relevant actions at local, national, regional and supranational level, to be hypocritical and to interfere with sovereign rights. i cannot support any report that makes references to scandalous documents like the istanbul convention, which is quite obviously a political instrument, given the influence of the so-called lgbti lobby on its texts. there is no place in the program of rights and values for such scandalous and ambiguous documents.
madam president, the concept of 'differentiated integration' is not politically neutral and i do not think it can be seen as such. it is a euphemism that seeks to legitimize a two-speed europe. it is the politically correct notion that divides the european union into a centre and a periphery, into first-class and second-class member states, into two categories of european citizens. once again, this is a form of double standard, a subject which is particularly painful for my fellow citizens. it seems illogical to fight the double standard in food and at the same time have bulgaria and romania outside schengen or only partially accepted. if the citizens of this union do not feel equal, this would also have a negative impact on the future of the european project as a whole. speaking of a multi-speed europe on the eve of the european elections will inevitably have an impact on voter turnout, which is traditionally not very high. this should make us think.
author. mr president, commissioner, the european union is the largest trading bloc in the world. it's a success for the bloc itself, but of course, it wouldn't have been possible without its citizens all these years. the position of leading trade bloc comes with responsibilities to other countries. the gsp is therefore the right approach, which allows third countries to generate economic growth and momentum, and why not one day be an equal economic partner. of course, it should be taken into account that in many cases the production costs are much lower than those in the european union. the demands on agricultural production continue to be among the highest, if not the highest, in the world, which has a huge impact on the economic attractiveness of agriculture in europe. rice production in the european union is concentrated in a few countries. rice producers in italy, spain, portugal, greece, france, hungary, romania and, of course, the country i know best - bulgaria - were unfortunately the ones who felt quite strongly and at their own expense some of the growth in bilateral trade between the union and the two countries of south east asia. at the first european union rice forum, held in milan almost three years ago, as you know, mrs malmström, representatives of various industry organisations from seven eu member states agreed that a new approach to rice production in the european union was needed. we must not forget that rice production involves resources, such as water, for example, for which there are requirements; labor, for which there are also requirements; and machinery, for which there are also requirements. all this makes production in the european union more expensive. here in the european parliament we stand behind these requirements to ensure both fertile soils and clean water for future generations. i'm not sure, however, that simply seeking cheaper imports is the right approach. because the resources in other parts of the world, just like in europe, need to be protected. it is logical that rice offered and imported into the european union from third countries should meet these social and environmental requirements. in the case of both myanmar and cambodia, the economic impact of the application of the gsp is significant. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume increased by more than 50% between 2015 and the rip. unfortunately, however, some european sectors are feeling this growth more than others, and quite negatively. one of these sectors is rice production. in this connection, i would like to raise a point of order today on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development on the import of rice from third countries, in particular from myanmar and cambodia. i am glad that you, commissioner, are here with us and that together we can send a positive message to european rice farmers. i warmly welcome the decision taken by the european commission, as of tomorrow, 18 january 2019, to introduce a new regime for the import of rice from these two countries. today's publication in the official journal of the european union is the result of a lot of work and effort on the part of both the rice farmers and the european commission, of course. the study carried out on imports of semi-milled and wholly milled 'indica' rice originating in cambodia and myanmar for the period 2012-2017 outlines the trends already known to the sector in europe. the quantities imported from both countries taken together doubled over this period, but i would like to draw attention to the huge increase in imports from myanmar, which went from 2 000 tonnes in 2012 to almost 63 000 tonnes by 2017. this 3,000% increase is huge and it wouldn't be fair to leave it unchanged. the low cost of manufacturing in cambodia and myanmar is one of the factors that has shrunk european manufacturing by almost 40% in just 4 to 5 years. this is bound to cause concern even among the most ardent free-trade advocates. the trend of declining rice consumption in the european union, which may also be due to a change in the diet of europeans, should also be taken into account. i'm sorry to inform you of the delays in communication with our partners in southeast asia. i believe that cooperation with them should continue, but i strongly welcome the proposed introduction of rice duties over the next three years. i believe that the progressive reduction of these duties will enable european rice producers to recover and continue to produce a quality product. the european industry has also already sent strong messages of support for the proposed measure. i am glad that, although we here in the european parliament have different views from the commission on some issues, in this case today and from here we are able to send a strong signal in support of european rice production. i also welcome the decision of the president of the commission to withdraw the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
member of the commission. – mr president, cambodia and myanmar are beneficiaries of the ‘everything but arms’ arrangement and that grants least developed countries duty and quota free access to the european market. this is one important pillar of our generalised scheme preferences (gsp) tariff reduction scheme for developing countries. nevertheless, under the rules of the general scheme of preferences of the regulation, the commission may, temporarily, reinstate the common customs tariffs duties to shield a particular sector if products are imported in volumes or at a price that are causing serious difficulties to eu industries. upon the request of eight rice producing member states, the commission initiated a safeguard investigation regarding imports of indica rice from cambodia and myanmar. the findings of these investigations confirm that there is indeed a surge of imports of rice that has caused economic damage to the rice sector in the eu. the imports of indica rice from cambodia and myanmar have increased significantly over the he last year. imports from cambodia have increased by almost 100 000 tonnes and myanmar by 60 000 tonnes and this represents a significant increase of market share – from 15% to 25% for cambodia and from zero to 6% from myanmar. import prices were much lower than the eu prices and, as a result, the eu industry lost a significant volume of production and market share. therefore, it is warranted that safeguard measures are imposed and the commission will reinstate the common customs tariff duty. the tariff duty will be eur 175 per tonne in year one, eur 150 per tonne per in year two and eur 125 per tonne in year three. these measures will therefore be in place for three years and they can only be extended in duly justified circumstances. the measures will give breathing space for the eu rice sector to allow them to adopt to the new market conditions. we have, from the commission, adopted the implementing regulation yesterday and the decision has been published this morning.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, allow me to start by congratulating the colleague who raised this question, mrs nekov. i regard his question as the concern that each of us must have for the protection of our producers, whether they are from one member state or another of the european union. these people who work, create gross domestic product, pay taxes and ultimately support the countries and the union as such. yes, it is true that the importation of any goods from outside, including the goods in question - in this case rice - must take place only under conditions which do not endanger, do not put at risk, local producers. and that's exactly what we're talking about here. the importation of large quantities of rice from these countries mentioned in the oral question endangers the local producers. the working conditions in these countries, the respect for human rights, which mrs mamikins also mentioned, are clearly not at the level we are placing conditions on our producers. every week we have dozens of reports here on these two countries - myanmar or cambodia. we are raising these issues, debating them, passing resolutions, but at the same time we are accepting their products, which, however, threaten and violate the rights of our producers. it is therefore absolutely essential, madam commissioner, that we avoid this double standard with regard to favoured third parties and insist that these producers comply at least with the minimum standards that we impose on our own producers. otherwise, we fund producers from other countries and we condemn our own producers to a lot of hardship. they must meet all european standards and at the same time not be able to compete with cheaper goods imported from outside. it is imperative that these myths be introduced. (the president agreed to answer the question 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. i agree, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a double standard and hypocrisy when we talk inside the union. but in this case, we're talking about protecting the interests of hungarian producers, polish producers, bulgarian producers. in this case, we must be united in protecting our jobs within our countries. otherwise, you are right about the double standards in the union.
mr president, this is a very interesting debate on how the european union should deal with rice producers in third countries. i listened very carefully to the commissioner, and i understand that the commission has finally decided to impose import duties. there is a need to protect growers in europe in some way, especially when growers in third countries may not meet labour, legal, safety and other limits. they are in a very different position from european growers. i understand that, but i would also ask that such measures be considered very carefully, because as has already been said, it is the consumers themselves who should not be compensated for the protectionist policy. that is, there really must be clear reasons why the european commission takes such a conservation measure. what i consider a bigger problem, and why i joined the debate, is how many countries that violate human rights - and you know we have repeatedly addressed the rohingya issue in myanmar here this year, this big political issue in the human rights debate - should have free access to distribute their products in europe. and i am in favour of this restriction not because of protectionism, i support the free market, but rather because of the doctrine of human rights protection. we have spoken here several times about how we will intervene against burma, how we will intervene against myanmar, because our resolution to protect the rohingya, hundreds of thousands of people who have been driven from their homes, burma/myanmar is not doing anything about it and our measures, our resolution, are not taken seriously at all. and i think that's the space where we can say to burma very clearly, you're treating human rights this way, so we're going to restrict your ability to export your products, in this case rice, to europe. i think that's a clear concrete example. so i approve of the commission's decision, but i ask you to be very careful in the future, lest we fall into artificial protectionism. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer the question by raising the blue card. i didn't say that consumer rights were sacred. the commission is supposed to seek a compromise between the rights of producers, in this case growers, and consumers. and in each case, in the case of rice from myanmar and cambodia, to examine how far the rice growers in those two countries are adhering to similar standards as the growers in the european union. if they do not comply, they are in principle favoured, and then such a duty has its logic. each case has to be assessed individually and the european commission is here to find a compromise between growers' rights and consumers' rights.
mr. chairman, agriculture is a conservative and sensitive sector and we need to protect it. i am pleased that most of my colleagues from different political groups are on the same page to protect our producers, regardless of the sector, and to maintain high standards in the european union. separately, rice production in the european union has a thousand-year history. culture plays an important part in the european diet and its cultivation creates a workforce for thousands of people. in this respect, i consider the possibility that exists in the current programming period for member states to be able to provide tied support to support rice producers to be logical and necessary. recent developments in the sector clearly show that the sector is sensitive and at risk. i therefore hope that in the next programming period, and in particular through the new cap, we will be able to support this sector. support ensures employment and, of course, local products that are beneficial both to consumers and to the local economy, especially in rural areas. i would like to express the frustration of the bulgarian rice producers that for the period 2014-2020 rice did not receive additional support in the form of tied support. this has led to the erosion of many of the rice fields in the region, where, notice, rice has been grown for 600 years. these areas were planted with a small number of so-called monocultures, which were then exported. that's not how you build competitiveness. despite the slight downward trend in consumption in the european union, the european market still has potential to grow in terms of european rice consumption. the import volumes prove this. so from this podium, i also call on the bulgarian government to protect bulgarian rice producers and processors by providing them with tied support at the latest from the beginning of the next programming period. and mrs. malstrom, thank you for the positive news about the tariffs.
in writing. i would describe everything that has happened in britain in the last week in the following way. another spin in the wheel of british politics, with no movement forward. in practice, theresa may was given the right by the british parliament to negotiate in brussels to remove the irish border mechanism. i can say today, especially after listening to juncker, barnier and the leaders of the main political groups, that no one has any intention of opening the agreement and renegotiating it. what we all see as the only possible solution at the moment is a request from the british government to delay the deadline of 29 march 2019. it is the only politically and humanly reasonable solution.
in writing. – i would like to call for a peaceful solution to the recently increased tension in the cross-strait relations between china and taiwan. the preservation of the status quo between these two actors is of utmost importance for safeguarding the security and stability of the region. according to recent polls, 75% of the people living in taiwan reject beijing’s view of ‘1992 consensus’. disregarding their beliefs will constitute an obstruction of democracy. moreover, china’s intention, expressed recently by president xi jinping, to impose a ‘one country, two systems’ model on taiwan sends a strong signal, given how the implementation of this formula has been politically challenging in hong kong. any statement which could lead to an escalation of tensions should be avoided at all costs as this would not be in the interest of the people of the region. respect for each other and constructive dialogue are the only way to a sustainable solution of disputes.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, we are satisfied with the fact that in 2017 the total number of irregularities reported to the commission were 21% fewer than in 2016. their value of approximately eur 2.58 billion was a 13% decrease from the previous year. however, not all member states have adopted national anti—fraud strategies and there is still a gap between the member states in the reporting process. member states have to establish a uniform system for collection of comparable data on irregularities in cases of fraud in order to standardise the reporting process and ensure the quality and comparability of the data. we welcome the establishment of the european public prosecutor’s office, for which purpose, for the first time, the european union budget 2019 includes appropriations of eur 4.9 billion. we also welcome the commission’s proposal for a regulation on the protection of the union’s budget in the case of generalised deficiencies as regards the rule of law in the member states. we expect objective and systematic assessment based on a set of indicators and independent report. the report includes also some aspects related to public procurement such as digitalisation and prevention at the early stages of the tender procedure as well as import procedures, expenditure problems identified and measures required, investigative journalism, as well as transnational fraud. finally, we welcome the commission’s proposal to empower olaf to investigate value added tax matters and call on the commission to establish a certain level of transparency of olaf reports and recommendations.
the corbett report is highly controversial and the amendments to it are aimed at restricting democratic freedom. requiring political groups to provide political declarations signed by all their members in which they declare their political affiliation is contrary to any rules and procedures which this parliament has consistently claimed to defend. i am glad that we have succeeded in removing from the text the requirement that the european parliament be able to assess whether political groups are formed according to the political affiliation of all parties to a political family. that's not provable and it's completely untenable. to me, it's a tool that the big political groups, when they're afraid they're going to lose their dominance, will desperately try to hold on to that dominance and break down the other political groups.
i voted against mr marinescu's report because i believe that national sovereignty is important and, ultimately, it should be respected and protected. the report notes that the total number of irregularities investigated in 2017, 15 213 cases, is 20% lower than in 2016, when there were 19 080 cases, and that their value as damages decreased by 13% from eur 2,97 billion in 2016 to eur 2,58 billion in 2017. although the fight against all forms of corruption is a legitimate objective and the call for closer cooperation between the member states of the european union in the exchange of information is also a legitimate objective and something that i and my group certainly support, the report also contains some controversial aspects, namely the references to more action at european level, which would take away the sovereignty of the member states whose competence it is to fight organised crime.
madam president, it should be crystal clear that the only possible way to overcome the present crisis is through dialogue between the government and the opposition. this resolution, which we just passed, goes in exactly the opposite direction, blocking such dialogue – contrary to what the secretary—general of the united nations has called for; contrary to what is in this morning’s news – that president maduro is ready to engage in dialogue. there is a terrible double standard in this resolution. it criticises the government for holding unilateral elections, for not consulting with anybody when they organise them; and then it totally supports another unilateral action by the opposition, declaring guaido as president. i find this a terrible fault by this parliament. in taking such a decision, it is only deepening the crisis.
i voted in favour of this report because it is quite clear that a large proportion of entrepreneurial ventures in the european union need special protection. we need to return to the principles of the common market and protect the entrepreneurship and skills of people who want to work and earn their money honestly. i can give as an example the scandalous proposals in the so-called "mobility package", a package that hinders free competition, hinders the free market and tries to take business from some countries and from some entrepreneurs and put it in the hands of others. in this particular case, when we talk about this package, the "mobility" package or the "macron" package, as it is known, we are talking about the attempt by entrepreneurs from the central part of the european union to take away, without competition, by breaking the free market, bread and business from entrepreneurs from eastern europe, which in the case of my country would mean more than half a million emigrants, 500 thousand people, which cannot be allowed.
in writing. – the pace of technological advancement is so fast that nobody can fully grasp what is coming next. we can only speculate where artificial intelligence (ai) will be in 10 or 20 years. yet this is not something new – for instance, who knew 10 years ago what a data scientist would be? what is certain though is that the ever-changing digital world will significantly affect our lives. while previously, advances in automation focused on particular industries, like manufacturing, today automation influences all sectors. automation is the new reality in the workplace and in the forthcoming years we will observe a growing interaction between humans and machines. research shows that for the past 140 years automation, robots and technology have created more jobs than they have destroyed. historically, the economy has consistently found space in higher-skilled, creative work as it has eliminated routine tasks through automation. about 10% of jobs we know today will disappear, but the actual challenge is that at least a third of them will change due to digital disruption. adaptation is indispensable and education (with a capital e) is key.
water is not a simple commercial product. climate change shows that it's not an unlimited resource. urban development, especially in large cities and capitals, puts significant pressure on the supply of fresh and quality water. i supported today's report because i believe it is necessary to promote resource efficiency and reduce pressure on the aquatic environment. one such solution is to promote the development of safe reuse of treated waste water. agriculture is an example of a sector where clean and safe water can be an excellent application and solution for the development of vegetable production. an increasing number of the scientific community are also paying attention to the so-called 'plastic micro-particles' that are present in the water we use. it's where they get into the soil and the environment. this must be taken into account when finalising eu-wide legislation on minimum requirements for water reuse.
madam president, i voted against this resolution with conviction because it is high time that the hypocritical and ambiguous attitude on this extremely important issue was stopped. the endless talk, the strategies, the writing of documents lead to nothing real and to nothing substantial. the real problems in these neighborhoods and these slums are there. the ghettos and the slums breed crime, breed lack of education, breed tension, breed breakdown and breakdown of societies. we must finally be clear about what the problem is in these slums and in these settlements. in my country, there is an increase in attacks on police officers, an increase in attacks on doctors who have come to help in these settlements. this problem of declarations, resolutions, writing documents will not be solved. it will only be resolved when illegal construction is removed; only when parents who create children at risk are held criminally responsible for what they have done; only when social benefits are stopped when they are abused, and only when the fake ngos that actually siphon those funds stop doing so.
the report we adopted today on the sustainable use of pesticides is of paramount importance for the future of europe. agriculture is a sector that has the potential to create and sustain economies in regions where there are no alternative activities. unfortunately, though, pesticides are the ones that have the greatest impact on the environment. they increase yields in the short term, but in the medium and long term they can deplete soils, reduce the benefits of beneficial organisms in them, and thus reduce their fertility. as rapporteur for the socialists on bees, i would also like to express my strong concern about the use of a number of preparations which have a negative impact on the main pollinators - bees. i join the commission in calling on the member states to take all necessary measures to promote low-risk pesticides and to give priority to non-chemical options and methods that cause the least harm to health and the environment. stable and sustainable ecosystems are a prerequisite for a clean environment and hence a variety and safety of food for european citizens.
madam president, the crossborder regions represent 40% of the territory of the european union and more than 30% of europeans live in them. my country bulgaria borders five countries, two of which are members of the european union. although less populated, border regions are no less in need of adequate healthcare and care. given the aging population in these countries, i find it irresponsible to shut down health centers. unfortunately, this was also done by the rulers in bulgaria. 19 health facilities have been closed in the last three or four years. there should be a special approach and financial resource for cross-border regions. nor can they be subject to the same market and economic requirements as other regions. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's health policy and to monitor the implementation of the union's health policy. i call on the authorities, especially in bulgaria, to take measures as soon as possible to introduce e-government in the sector, which will reduce bureaucracy and help citizens to benefit more easily from health care.
in writing. – bosnia and herzegovina is a very important country in the western balkan region. as the region continues its push to be integrated into the european union, the eu understands the volatility of peace in the region, which explains the eu’s extensive support for democracy, freedom, the rule of law, human rights and economic development in that country. unfortunately, in that country there is an increasing influence of foreign powers and there is a real need for a stronger eu engagement which remains the best way to ensure progress towards european values, stability and prosperity there. the report underlines many issues with which the young country cannot cope, such as human trafficking, the rule of law, corruption, gender equality and respect for human rights. in this context, i call on the eu commission to increase its financial and political support for that country and to encourage its eu membership. on the other hand, i call on the bosnian authorities to commit more political will and efforts to the required reforms and to work together in the name of the common future of the bosnian people and all bosnian autonomous regions.
rapporteur. – madam president, i prefer to deliver my speech in bulgarian. на първо място искам да благодаря на моя съдокладчик, г-жа крел, за сътрудничеството, на всички колеги от комисията по регионално развитие и нейния председател, на всички колеги от бюджети, транспорт, които се включиха в тази работа. това беше сътрудничество в името на политиката на сближаване. това беше сътрудничество в името на всички региони от европейския съюз – в името на най-бедните, в името на по-развитите, в името на планинските, в името на крайбрежните, в името на най-отдалечените, в името на селските региони, в името на всички. прекалено дълго време политиката на сближаване беше ползвана като разменна монета. беше считана от едни за даденост, а от други – за подаяние. разбира се, нито едното, нито другото е истина. със своята над трийсетгодишна история, политиката на сближаване се превърна в ценност, надхвърли отдавна просто програмите, фондовете, инициативите и инструментите. тя се нареди редом с всичко останало, което държи този съюз заедно. политиката на сближаване е лепилото, което държи държавите членки заедно в този европейски съюз. ето защо има нужда от нашата подкрепа. и да, това означава повече финансиране. и да, това означава, че ще настояваме за 47 милиарда повече. и да, това означава, че най-бедните региони трябва да плащат по-малко съфинансиране за тази политика. и да, това означава, че ние трябва да застанем зад нея за съвсем традиционни инвестиции. все още има региони в европейския съюз, които имат нужда от по-добри пътища, от по-бързи влакове, от по-големи пристанища и от повече летища. такъв е светът, в който живеем ние. оттук насетне предстои нещо много важно. чувам колеги да казват „това ще бъде сблъсък между популизма и традиционните партии, между екстремизма и по-умерените.“ забравете за това. оттук насетне има само два пътя – нагоре и надолу. този доклад означава нагоре. този доклад означава по-силен европейски съюз, защото той е шамар в лицето на популизма. означава, че европа е видима. означава, че европа стига до всеки един. означава, че европа е измерима, че е разбираема. ако тук има хора, които обичат европейския съюз, това означава, че трябва да обичат и най-отдалеченото селце в този европейски съюз. ако държат на него, означава, че държат и на последния човек, който живее по-зле от всички останали. и докато има такова селце, докато има такъв човек, трябва да има и кохезионна политика. оттук насетне, скъпи колеги, предстои едно огромно предизвикателство. успяхме да стигнем до този етап едва след десет месеца работа. беше изключително важно, защото показахме, че този европейски парламент мисли за хората, които са го избрали отвън. защото само след сто дни ние ще бъдем оценявани за това колко добре сме се справили, какво сме направили и какво не сме могли. и ние ще имаме отговори. какво и колко ще получат регионите в европейския съюз, колко ще получат фермерите, колко ще получат селските региони, колко ще има за екология, колко ще има за инфраструктура, колко ще има за студентите, колко ще има за земеделие. най-вече какви ще са правилата, на които те ще трябва да се подчиняват, какви ще са условията, на които трябва да отговарят. наша централна задача беше да свършим тази работа и то да я свършим в срок. ето защо аз се радвам, че успяхме да го направим. оттук насетне остава само едно – да комуникираме свършването на тази работа на разбираем човешки език, защото всички тези фондове, всички тези инициативи съществуват заради хората. съществуват заради хората, заради бизнеса, заради студентите, заради фермерите, заради всички останали. ето защо трябва да го разкажем на техния език, защото европа работи за тях, противно на всичко, което говорят популистите.
on behalf of the alde group. first of all, i would like to thank the two rapporteurs and what they have done in preparing the report, together with all my colleagues from the committee on regional development in the european parliament. for the liberal and democratic group in this parliament, there are several key elements of the general rules regulation that reflect the reformed cohesion policy and are in the context of the philosophy of the post-2020 multiannual financial framework. firstly, it is the flexibility and interplay between the different funds, which is an innovative approach that allows flexibility, according to the conditions in each country, but also to the challenges facing the european union and the regions, the possibility of transferring resources between the programmes, funds and instruments of european aid. secondly, it is crucial for us in alde to establish a clear and predictable link between the european semester and the european structural and investment funds, which can ensure efficiency. the effectiveness of reforms and reformed policies is key to enhancing the effectiveness of cohesion policy. in this sense, macroeconomic conditionality is an important tool for improving cohesion policy. last but not least, the link between cohesion policy and instruments such as investeu or the connecting europe facility is of paramount importance in enhancing the effectiveness of the common european investment policy. only in this way can we achieve modernisation, reform and a clear policy that sends clear signals to european citizens.
a speaker. first of all, i would like to thank everyone who took part in the debate. almost two hours were not enough time to get to the bottom of things, to say everything we thought about cohesion policy, which shows that it makes sense for it to continue to exist. it continues to affect all of us, no matter what part of the european union we come from. one thing i am sure of from everything i have heard is that if one day cohesion policy disappears, it will not be because of those who attack it and disapprove of it. it would only happen because of those who look on without doing anything about it. but i will not be among those people, and i'm glad that there are many others in this room who think like me. because cohesion policy has no net payers and no net beneficiaries. there is only one, and they are the net beneficiaries, because everyone benefits from european politics from the black sea coast to the atlantic coast. anyone can see the results of it. few european policies touch every single person and reach every single village, in small towns and big cities, to students, farmers, young scientists, entrepreneurs, businesses, everyone. and i am glad that today we are taking a step in that direction and supporting cohesion policy, the cohesion policy. perhaps one of the most successful that the european union has ever had. we had a huge challenge, and that was to help the next programming period not be late. i am glad that we have managed to do in just ten months what would otherwise have taken much longer and finally, on monday, if this parliament approves our report today, to start negotiations with the council. i think it's the right thing to do, and i think people will appreciate it. on january 1, 2021, the next period must begin and there must be enough money for all important projects for people from traditional policies, roads, railways, schools, water supply, ecology to high technology, to smart cities and beyond. thank you all for your support.
rapporteur. – mr president, in accordance with rule 59(4) i would like to request referral back to the committee to start interinstitutional negotiations. thank you all for your support. it’s a small step for each of us, but it’s a big jump for parliament. (applause)
mr president, i voted in favour on the conclusion of the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca). the agreement provides a strong impetus for greater engagement between the eu and singapore and the south-east asia region in general. it aims to remove nearly all custom duties, to get rid of overlapping bureaucracy, to improve trade for goods, white electronics, wool products and pharmaceuticals, and to encourage eu companies to invest more in singapore and singaporean companies to invest more in the eu. the pca supports people-to-people exchanges, including academic mobility under the erasmus mundus programme, and facilitates the further development of cultural exchange in order to increase mutual understanding and knowledge of our respective cultures. last but not least, the conclusion of the pca can be used by the eu to further encourage the singapore authorities to take decisive steps to improve the human rights record in their country.
the rapporteur i had the privilege of being rapporteur on a regulation that not only brings our countries and citizens closer together, but also solves a practical, everyday problem for europeans from outside the euro area, saving them money. i thank vice-president valdis dumbrowski, all the shadow rapporteurs and colleagues in the econ committee with whom we have worked to send a true double standard into europe's history. one hundred and fifty million europeans and six million businesses from outside the euro area will now be treated on an equal footing with those in the euro area and will pay much lower fees for money transfers. this will increase competition in the single market, but also the sense of community to which we all belong. i am glad that the negotiations took a record amount of time and that we showed that the european union can take quick and effective decisions that solve real problems. we have made great progress in solving another problem - we have provided much greater transparency when paying or withdrawing money abroad with a card. anyone travelling to another eu country will have much more information about what and how much they are paying and will be able to choose the most cost-effective alternative. i take this opportunity to ask the commission to be ambitious in its report on the impact of the new regulation, which we expect to be in three years' time.
a speaker. we live in a very competitive and global world, where europe must really take full advantage of the advantages it has. the single market is our greatest economic power and we must complete it as soon as possible, including by extending the regulation to all european currencies. i also stress the need for a thorough analysis of how europeans can obtain full information in real time about card payments and withdrawals of money in a currency other than their own. technology is really moving at a very fast pace. there is no doubt that such information can be provided without any particular difficulty and expense on the part of the financial institutions. finally, when different europeans are treated differently, it is the easiest recipe for creating anti-european sentiment. and that is why i believe that with this regulation we have concrete results that european citizens will be able to feel from december 2019 and thus we will eliminate a true double standard. i thank again all my colleagues in the european parliament who have worked with us to ensure that the so-called 'roaming' of banks is not eliminated in five, six or ten years, but in just a few months. i also thank my colleagues from the european commission and the bulgarian and austrian presidencies for their joint work.
on behalf of the s&d group. we were somewhat surprised by this commission proposal, because on the one hand, the liberalisation of heavy goods transport had to be stopped, and on the other hand, there had to be liberalisation in the field of buses, which, as my colleagues before me have also stressed, is really the most social service. i have never understood why we should go in two areas of transport in totally different directions, namely, stopping the liberalisation of transport by heavy goods vehicles and liberalising transport by buses. but let me really congratulate our rapporteur, mr zille, who has managed to strike a balance so that we do not apply the german model in spain, nor the spanish model in germany. and so we can really apply this model, which is also applied in spain, for example, and in my country, where too many cities, and now large cities, located, for example, on the black sea, cannot afford to have transportation between individual cities. and you can imagine what's happening in the interior and in the dwindling villages and small towns in countries like bulgaria, and in many other countries in central and eastern europe. it is absolutely unworthy to try to link mobility 1 with mobility 2 because we here in parliament are elected to do a job. what we agree on, let's put it to a vote, and what we don't agree on, let the majority ask themselves why this is happening and whether they have the right to demand that mobile package 1 be adopted. so let me congratulate the rapporteur and my colleagues. i would also like to call on you not to work for the postponement and in no case for the rejection of this report, which is unfortunately what our group is asking for, and to work for the adoption tomorrow of the proposals made by the three main political groups.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you for this opportunity to exchange views on the topical issue of security and technology and the relevant international developments. as you are aware, the european council also attaches great importance to security and technology. last year, both in june and october, it addressed questions of internal security, especially regarding cybersecurity. the romanian council presidency has also made cybersecurity part of a broader package that deals with hybrid threats to the european elections, and one of the main issues that we have to address, as mentioned, is to gather information on this. cybersecurity is indeed one of the main challenges we are facing as attacks are capable of causing serious economic damage and of violating privacy and fundamental rights. recent cybersecurity events in some member states are not a new trend but just the latest example of the most negative downside of the internet. however, no economic growth can be achieved without a stable and secure environment. during the last year cybersecurity has become a matter of highest political priority and a constant topic on the agenda. the ambitious cybersecurity package presented by the commission in september 2017 was followed the by a set of council conclusions and an action plan for their implementation. these emphasised the need to enhance the eu’s capacity to prevent, deter and respond to cyber—attacks. the cyber security act – an important part of the package – will be formally adopted in the coming weeks. this will create a strong and permanent mandate for the european union cybersecurity agency (enisa) and will enhance cybersecurity certification. the council is also making progress in the discussions on the proposal for a regulation establishing the european cybersecurity industrial technology and research centre and network of coordination centres. it is the presidency’s intention to reach a general approach on this important file in the coming weeks. furthermore, the eu has stepped up its response by adopting a cyber—diplomacy toolbox. this framework offers the full use of measures within the common foreign and security policy, including, if needed, restrictive measures. as regards china, the eu is committed to opening trading relations with this country. we should not forget that china is the eu’s second biggest trading partner, after the us. however, access to the chinese markets for eu companies remains highly restricted and china ranks among the least open economies to foreign direct investment (fdi) inflow, in particular in certain key sectors. in contrast, the european market is fully open to chinese investment, despite the lack of reciprocity. china is not only becoming a more prominent international investor but is increasingly focusing on high—tech sectors as targets for its acquisitions. the eu is also addressing forced technology transfers in china. in particular, in june 2018, the eu filed a dispute settlement case in the world trade organization, supplemented in december 2018, against chinese practices that force european companies to give up sensitive technology and know—how as a precondition for investing in china. we are strengthening our tools for responding to the possible risks that certain investments could pose to our security or essential interests of the union. in this regard, this house will be voting this week on a very important piece of legislation – the investment screening regulation. the regulation will establish a framework for screening by the member states and for a mechanism for cooperation in the exchange of information about investments from third countries. the regulation is country—neutral and is not directed at china. it will be applied towards foreign direct investment from all third countries, without differentiating, and is fully in line with the eu’s and member states’ international commitments. the framework is strictly focused on security and public order, which the eu interprets in a narrow sense. as such, it is not intended to discourage foreign investments but, on the contrary, to enable such investments in sensitive areas by addressing and mitigating risks relating to security and public order. we welcome the excellent cooperation of the european parliament in this file, which will lead to its adoption in the coming months. i look forward to listening to this debate and i want once more to repeat that the romanian council presidency is fully committed towards fighting for cybersecurity and fighting against interference from abroad and, at the same time, for doing more investments but having in mind as well how we protect our fundamental rights and freedoms in europe.
member of the commission. – madam president, securing our critical digital infrastructure is not a question we can leave for some future date. it’s not a question to be left to the next parliament. it’s not even a question for next week. cyber and cyber—enabled threats already pose a significant challenge to our european union. this is not going to change any time soon, and with the emergence of new technologies – which will change our entire connected lives – we need to be thinking right now about our digital security requirements. it’s no surprise that the resilience of critical digital infrastructures, including in relation to the imminent rollout of 5g technology, has aroused healthy debate in member states around the role of third-country technology providers, not least in the light of the 2017 chinese national intelligence law. to those who have questioned why we are discussing this, and to those who have tried to warn us off, i want to say this: it’s absolutely right that we should be discussing this. it’s entirely legitimate, and indeed necessary. 5g infrastructure will be the backbone of our digital economy, providing mission-critical services, not only for consumer services, but for a myriad of other sectors – transport, energy, health, defence and the security sector – and it will not be easy to replace once it is installed. securing this critical digital infrastructure is necessary to protect our government, our industry, our democratic institutions, our personal information, and indeed, our core values, such as the protection of fundamental rights and data protection. driving this urgent work forward and building stronger coordination among member states will be essential to our joint efforts to increase our collective digital resilience. there are, as has already been mentioned, a number of instruments in place which can be used to boost that resilience. for a start, while 5g standards are global, theoretically allowing suppliers from anywhere in the world to do business here in europe, anyone who wants to access the eu market needs to comply with our rules. member states have the right to take measures against companies, for reasons of national security. the regulation on screening of foreign direct investments (fdi) into the eu, as has just been underlined, will allow the commission and member states to cooperate in their assessment of potential security risks, including cyber—related threats posed by foreign investments. the regulation will establish a mechanism enabling member states and the commission to assist each other where a foreign investment in critical technology infrastructure, as in other sectors, could affect the security or public order interests of other member states or of the union itself. the commission will also be able to issue opinions – in particular when union projects and programmes are potentially at risk. in this way, the regulation will help ensure member states have the information they need when making key decisions on their critical digital infrastructures. as my colleague commissioner malmström said to this chamber a little earlier today, by concluding the work on the fdi screening regulation, the union is sending a strong message to its partners. we are open to foreign investment, but a condition of being open is to be able to trust that foreign investors will not threaten our security and our strategic interests. as well as who is supplying our infrastructure, we also need to consider how cyber-secure it will be once it’s in place, once we’re using it. again, there are measures in place to boost cybersecurity at eu level. for example, most member states have already transposed into national law the security of network and information systems (nis) directive. that was the first eu—wide legislation in this area, and for any member states who have not yet transposed this, i think they would be well advised to do so. the directive seeks to develop national cybersecurity capabilities, increase eu—level cooperation and ensure that operators of essential services, including certain digital service providers, adopt appropriate risk management measures and report significant incidents to their national authorities. again, as has been underlined, the cybersecurity act that we reached agreement on last december will soon be adopted and published. it reinforces the mandate of the european union agency for network and information security (enisa), creating a genuine european cybersecurity agency, better to support member states in tackling cyber threats and attacks. the act also establishes an eu framework for cybersecurity certification, boosting the cybersecurity of online services and consumer devices. i think that we can expect 5g infrastructure to be an important element of the agency’s work. finally, negotiations are underway on the proposal for a european cybersecurity research and competence centre and network, which will stimulate the development and deployment of cybersecurity technology and complement the capacity-building efforts in this area at eu— and national levels. these various measures create the right kind of incentives to enhance cybersecurity products and services in the eu, both for business and consumers, and along supply chains. but we need to work together – the institutions, our agencies and the member states – to make use of the various provisions and powers. together, we need to demonstrate the necessary political will to better assure our digital security, and it’s vital that we remain vigilant to all the cyber and cyber—enabled threats, including those to our digital infrastructure, given that they will continue to evolve and they will continue to be cross-border. for our part, the commission is committed to continue working with member states and the other european institutions on these issues. thank you for organising this debate this evening. i think it’s very important.
i would like to say, madam president, that this issue is of particular importance to my group. i must say, commissioner, that i listened with interest to your speech, which was interesting but, in my opinion, very general. the point we're addressing here is directly related to companies that are linked to china, to a specific country. and we're not addressing this point by accident, we're addressing it because in the last few months, there have been, quite simply, issues in some eu member states related to security risks from specific chinese companies. i'm from the czech republic, where this issue involves two chinese companies, and i want to point out, i don't know if you have this information, that on december 17, 2018, the czech national office for cyber and information security issued a clear warning to two chinese companies, namely huawei and zte. the czech republic is not the only eu country currently dealing with these problems on its territory. it's a current problem, and our government is dealing with it in a way that i think is pretty alibi-y. despite what the czech president says, which more or less greatly undermines the warning of this expert body. i am therefore convinced that the european institutions, the european commission, should respond to these problems now. this could be done either through legislation or at least by having a debate among the member states, or by trying to coordinate some common action to protect european security. i would very much like to see such an initiative from the commission here, if we were able to make some kind of joint, strong response, as the usa did last august or as new zealand or australia did, for example. i believe that this is necessary because espionage and the misuse of data know no national boundaries and a european response will be required.
on behalf of the s&d group. let me stress that i too would welcome a common position of the european union rather than the separate positions of the different member states, because only then can the union's position be respected more. i also want to emphasize that when there are accusations, it's good to have evidence. by the way, there are allegations that chinese companies may be exporting data to their own government. i'd love to hear the same about american companies and see if american companies have the ability to export data to their government. in general, we must ensure that no one in the european union can afford to violate european law. so, for example, gdpr is a great example, a pioneering piece of legislation that many, even american companies, said they would implement around the world. we just passed the cybersecurity act. for example, the possibility of certification schemes has been created there. here is a great job for enisa. let him create a certification scheme for 5g equipment to be applied in the european union, and i think that such a certification scheme can be proposed worldwide. let enisa use its double budget, which has just been confirmed by the european parliament, precisely so that european citizens can feel more confident in this new 5g technology.
rapporteur. – madam president, briefly, i just want to draw your attention to the fact that today, with this report, we abolish the so-called ‘roaming fees’ for cross-border payments. in this way, we (a) show to the european citizens that we can deliver fast and tangible results and (b) save them billions of euros annually. and not least, we also put the single market for payments at an equal footing, irrespective of whether you come from a eurozone country or non-eurozone country. (applause)
mr president, i voted against this document because, once again, under the guise of a legitimate aim to combat violence against women, a new propaganda is being made. once again, the controversial topics of the istanbul convention are being propagated, and this room and this rostrum are being used to propagate various deviations. and so today we voted for lgbt rights, intersex rights, and so on and so forth. in fact, all these documents become a propaganda platform. we vote for fishing in the north sea lgbt rights, we vote for the dunes lgbt rights. this is wrong, unacceptable and inexplicable, mr. chairman. this is becoming a place of propaganda against traditional values and the traditional family. there is no logic and no sense in any of these documents to insert these conflicting controversial texts. among the citizens, especially in our countries, there is no understanding that this propaganda should be made.
mr president, i supported mrs zille's report because its sensible proposals protect the interests, rights and legitimate interests of carriers and owners from the eastern european member states of the european union. unlike the first report, the first package of documents the mobility package, where under pressure from germany, france and belgium, an attempt is made to steal, literally steal, take over the business of the eastern european countries. entrepreneurs from poland, bulgaria, romania, hungary, lithuania, latvia, estonia, and even spain and portugal are at risk. their business model is in jeopardy because the people who make the decisions in germany, france, belgium are trying to steal that business. this is a clear sign and example of the 'double standard' and the breach of the single market rules that we all have to fight against, because when we entered this union we were told that the single free market would be decisive. so this mobility package should be stopped, withdrawn and returned for reconsideration.
i congratulate mrs kjellmell on this question. there is no doubt that terrorism must be pursued everywhere. no one in this room will support any organization or state that supports, promotes and promotes terrorism. on the other hand, i am convinced that we must respect the right of every people, of every nation to regulate its internal order. we cannot blame one country, one nation, one people, one government, call them all terrorists. i believe that no one does, i am convinced that it is not. the european union, the european countries have a huge commercial and economic interest in maintaining good relations with the republic of iran. it is no accident that germany, france, and other european countries have such relations. i'm convinced we should do it. while condemning terrorism everywhere, we must respect the right of every nation to its own internal order.
i want to start by congratulating my colleague, evie, on this question, which is important because it affects the health of so many people. dirty air makes people sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, sick, what is it all about the number of people who are affected by it, and who are affected by it? but i would like to draw your attention to one of the causes of air pollution, and that is the burning of tires, pants, clothes and all kinds of other garbage in a number of roma slums in many countries of eastern and central europe. it's a huge problem that no one is acknowledging, no one is talking about. it's under the carpet. you're voting on all kinds of resolutions here that affect hate speech, i don't know what you are, but nobody mentions the important issues, and they are that in these slums, in these cottages, they burn various materials that pollute the air and poison people. this needs to be taken seriously. if we want to talk about clean air, we have to start with the gypsy slums. this is a big question.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the terrorist threat to europe in recent years, the issue of security is of the utmost importance both to european citizens and to us, the legislators, who have the duty to make every corner of europe safe. over the years, a number of measures have been taken to increase the security of citizens. one of them is the creation of the ecris system for the exchange of information on convictions of third country nationals, which we have to approve this week. such a system already exists for european citizens, but the lack of it for third-country nationals has so far represented a breach of european internal security. the effective exchange of information on the convictions of third-country nationals handed down by european courts will mean that no one can escape the law by moving from one eu country to another. let me be clear: freedom of movement does not mean exemption from liability. all people living in the european union, whether they are european citizens or not, have an obligation to respect national and european laws. if not, they must suffer the consequences. the new system will ensure that this liability is carried out irrespective of the place of residence.
i very much hope that the new european solidarity corps will have real added value for young people in the european union in the next programming period. for that to happen, i think we have to consider two very important aspects. on the one hand, we have to make sure that the corps has a budget that's ambitious enough to allow more young people to have access to volunteer activities and feel socially useful. on the other hand, it must be accessible to every young person, regardless of their economic and social status. young people with more limited financial resources, those living in remote regions and people with disabilities should not be neglected, as is the case with other european programmes. that will be the measure of success of this program. last but not least, i believe that the regulation of volunteering at european level will finally give impetus to the adoption of legislation in my country too. there are many volunteer organizations in bulgaria that have been waiting for years for this to happen. i hope we don't disappoint them again.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam chair, allow me to thank my colleagues with whom we worked together on the cybersecurity act, especially mrs. nibler, mr. telicka, mr. dante. first, we have doubled the budget of the european cybersecurity agency, we have its permanent mandate and we have enisa's own technical capabilities, which i hope are just a first step in the right direction and enisa will have even more serious technical capabilities and the ability to help each member state. i also want to express, unlike the other rapporteurs, my satisfaction that there will be voluntary certification, as i have noticed the temptation to have mandatory certification, which is used as a market advantage for some companies over others, rather than as a concern for consumers. i would like to point out two contradictory points in the legislation on national competence centres. one is the text which currently states that only bodies established in the territory of the union and individuals residing within the union can be accredited as members of this community and that is to say that it does not give the right to participate to subsidiaries from third countries that meet the criteria and have expertise in the field of cybersecurity. if we want to build cybersecurity, it cannot be built solely within the european union. we have also given powers to enisa on research needs and in the regulation for centres of competence similar powers are also given. it is necessary to avoid overlapping such powers, as there is a risk of creating too much legislation, which is not implemented or overlaps. we currently have three excellent pieces of legislation to work on, namely the cybersecurity act, the competence centres act and the network information security act. i think one of the first tasks that enisa should be doing is to start working on creating a certification scheme for 5g equipment, which is, as you know, a hot topic lately.
in writing. we work for a europe that protects its citizens and businesses. cybersecurity is not an abstract topic, it affects 80% of companies in the eu. it also affects consumers - a 2017 eurobarometer survey indicates that 87% of europeans consider cybercrime to be 'an important challenge for eu internal security'. attacks like wannacry affect hundreds of thousands of systems simultaneously and prove that cybercrime doesn't respect borders. this is why the eu needs to be more effective in combating cyberattacks, cyberespionage and cybersabotage. it is important to increase our capacity to provide better protection for european citizens, businesses and public institutions. the eu cybersecurity act is a key instrument for a safer europe, reinforcing the role of the european cyber agency enisa and the member states in developing cyber incident prevention, detection and response capabilities. a more secure and resilient eu cyber infrastructure will increase citizens' trust in the digital economy and unlock the potential of new technologies, leading us forward to a more competitive and innovative europe.
mr president, the success of the negotiations on unfair trading practices is a real revolution for european producers in this parliament. with the adoption of this directive, we put an end to the 'fear factor' for farmers. this directive clearly establishes a minimum list of prohibited unfair trading practices between buyers, on the one hand, and suppliers and producers, on the other. end of payment delays of more than 60 days, refusal to enter into a written supply agreement, commercial reprisals or threat thereof if recourse is had to rights seeking. these are just a few examples of practices that should be completely banned. the payment of the 'promotion' fee, without prior agreement and before the entry into force of the agreement for the delivery or return of unsold goods, will also cease. i call on all member states, including bulgaria, to set up, as soon as possible, adequate committees with legal powers to monitor and ensure the smooth application of this directive.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their support and for bringing the commission’s attention to their concerns about the implementation of the agreement and the situation on the ground in vietnam. there was a question about the regional initiative dimensions. there is a voluntary partnership agreement process with laos, a dialogue with cambodia, and a bilateral cooperation mechanism with china, where the legality of timber is a priority. we are also having a dialogue with japan. the messages that i have heard today are clear: we must work with our vietnamese partners to set out an ambitious course for this agreement to be implemented effectively. i can assure you that the commission is committed and ready to do this. at the same time, the commission looks forward to building on the positive experience with the voluntary partnership agreement on forest law enforcement, governance and trade in the context of our broader relationship with vietnam. this includes our future eu—vietnam trade and investment agreements and the eu-vietnam partnership and cooperation agreements. the commission will of course be happy to inform the parliament on progress in the implementation of the voluntary partnership agreement with vietnam and on how the points raised in the resolution are being addressed. finally, i would like to recall that, by giving your consent, you are not only supporting this voluntary partnership agreement. you are also reaffirming the importance and relevance of the forest law enforcement, governance and trade action plan, which since 2003 has shaped the eu’s fight against illegal logging – a significant driving force behind deforestation. this support is valuable to us as we see this action plan as a prime example of environment, development and trade policies acting in a mutually supportive way. we also need this kind of policy coherence to address broader deforestation challenges, and it will guide our approach as we further develop our policies in this area.
the committee on budgets mr president, my first words will be to express the wish of our entire house that our colleague györgy schöpflin, who is currently hospitalized with a serious illness, should make a speedy and complete recovery. i would remind you that the european citizens' initiative aims to give citizens, if there are enough of them and they come from a quarter of the european countries, a right of political initiative comparable to that of this parliament, through the resolutions we vote on every month and which are available to the council of ministers: the possibility of approaching the european commission to ask it to legislate in a new area, to stop legislating or to amend previous legislation. the first regulation we adopted a few years ago to provide the legal basis for the system has proved to be quite disappointing, as only four citizens' initiatives have made it to the final stage of the process. that is why we put the work back on track and, in good agreement between the european commission, commissioner timmermans and the committee on constitutional affairs, we drew up a new proposal which resulted in a trilogue agreement, and this agreement was approved in the committee on constitutional affairs by 18 votes in favour, none against and only three abstentions. the new life cycle, which is thus introduced into this regulation on the citizens' initiative, essentially at the initiative of parliament, allows for a simpler, more accessible, less costly and more transparent process, introduces the possibility of partial registration of a citizens' initiative whose initial purpose would risk going beyond the limits of the treaty, obliges the european commission to present its legal and political conclusions within a time limit of six months, and also obliges the european parliament, and the ngos concerned, to hold a debate before the european commission takes a decision within its responsibilities; finally, it gives parliament the opportunity to adopt a motion for a resolution. you will recall that parliament has amended its rules of procedure to make this possible. the revision of the regulation also ensures greater transparency in financing. it establishes contact points, an online register enabling the group of organisers to manage their initiative throughout the procedure and, by 2020, the commission will set up a central system for the online collection of statements of support. this system already exists, but is merely optional. it should be fully completed by next year. it's also free. this was one of the requests for simplification and technical assistance from the ngos we worked with. it would seem that other ngos or other people were concerned about this procedure at the very last moment, but there is no need to question the content of this trilogue. i therefore, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, formally recommend that our plenary confirm the excellent agreement reached in the trilogue.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, this debate concludes the revision process of the european citizens’ initiative, one of the political priorities of the juncker commission. it allows one million people to invite the commission to make a legal proposal on a topic that matters to them. since the scheme became operational almost seven years ago, more than nine million people have signed the citizens’ initiative. as such, the initiatives are an important instrument to promote and stimulate their participation in the democratic life of the european union, allowing them to initiate european debates and help set the agenda of eu institutions. two pending commission proposals are in direct response to citizens’ initiatives. the proposed revision of the drinking water directive, now under discussion, and the proposal on transparency and sustainability of risk assessment in the food chain, where the institutions have reached a political agreement. the commission has proposed a revised regulation for the european citizens’ initiative to realise its full potential. it is essential that people are helped and further encouraged to use this instrument without unnecessary obstacles or burdens standing in their way. the text agreed between parliament and council will make the european citizens’ initiative more accessible and user-friendly at all stages of the cycle. it will offer more opportunities for initiative organisers to receive support and advice, in particular, through an online collaborative platform and contact points in member states. it will help organisers by improving the registration process and giving them a more flexible timeline to start their campaigns. the commission will provide organisers with a free service for the online collection of signatures. it will simplify the personal data that people have to provide in order to sign. everyone will be able to sign no matter where they live. there will also be more time and, therefore, awareness raising, engagement and debates on successful initiatives before the commission replies. the commission regrets that some of the objectives which it wanted to pursue in this reform and which it shared with parliament could not be fully achieved. in the end, it was not possible to lower the participation age from 18 to 16 across the eu. however, each member state has the possibility to lower it for their own citizens if they wish to do so. we hope that many will do this because the voices of younger generations deserve to be heard. in addition, while the new regulation introduces a central online collection system that the commission provides for free, we would have preferred to retain the option for organisers to use their own systems if they wish. as a compromise between co-legislators, this possibility will be phased out by the end of 2022. however, i would like to stress that the commission is fully committed to delivering a high-quality central system, which we will develop in close consultation with stakeholders. all in all, i believe we have already delivered on our objective to make the european citizens’ initiative more accessible, less burdensome and easier to use. i would like to thank the european parliament, particularly the rapporteur, mr schöpflin, for its continued commitment to reforming the european citizens’ initiative and its contribution to achieving this very positive outcome.
the rapporteur, the committee on culture and education. mr president, mr commissioner, first of all, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education, i would like to thank mrs schöpflin and the other shadow rapporteurs and rapporteurs for their work on this controversial issue and for the good cooperation. i believe that the result achieved after the tripartite negotiations is balanced and gives citizens access to a more organised and simplified system for registering a citizens' initiative than the one we have so far. the european citizens' initiative is a very important democratic instrument of the european union. it allows european citizens to participate directly in the creation of european norms and written rules. the problem with the current system is that it's an extremely cumbersome and slow process for the organisers, which is also complicated for the supporters of the initiative. indeed, in the basic proposal for change we saw a number of positive changes. these include the possibility of easier registration, greater freedom in choosing the date for collecting signatures, and an increase in the requirement for completeness of personal data. i'd like to see a more in-depth initiative, though. thanks for the attention, though.
ladies and gentlemen, i agree with mr mamikins' arguments and i would like to say that russia is a country of strategic importance and position for a large part of europe. it is the country with the most eu member states and shares a border with the union of almost 2 300 kilometres. denying it the status of a strategic partner is not only shortsighted, it's a strategic mistake. such a thesis is a denial of the real european politics of the 21st century. no one benefits from coming out with political statements drenched in the language of the educated. i would like to draw attention to paragraph 6, for example, which strongly condemns russia's involvement in the skripal case. that's a bold claim, considering that the uk intelligence community still doesn't give a 100% guarantee of that claim even a year after this incident. do my colleagues who supported this text have more knowledge and information than the intelligence services? and finally, we criticize investigative journalism in third countries, but did you know, dear colleagues, that in bulgaria, programs are taken down from national broadcasters because they reveal the truth about corrupt practices in the country?
mr president, the final text of the 2018 report on turkey doesn’t help to continue a constructive dialogue between the eu and our strategic partner. suspension of the negotiation process is unacceptable for us. before the final decision we need to take into account the progress made by turkey recently. on 11 december 2018, the fifth meeting of the reform action group (rag), held in ankara, announced that turkey would decisively continue its efforts to align with eu standards despite political obstructions in the negotiations. ankara has set the goal of achieving closure of the monitoring procedure of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe. the ministry of justice intends to update the judicial reform strategy together with the council of europe and the eu. to strengthen the protection of fundamental human rights, the rag plans to update the action plan on the prevention of the violation of the european convention on human rights. a proposal to suspend the negotiation process – even formally – will be received negatively by turkish society: that was made clear during the recent meeting in ankara of the eu-turkey joint parliamentary committee, where the eu is seen as a friendly community. in the light of the upcoming elections in europe and in turkey, we need to be careful about the kind of messages we are sending to voters.
mr president, it is clear to all of us that full membership of the european union for turkey is unrealistic at this stage. turkey today has problems in many sectors of socio-political life. there are problems with respect for the rule of law, with fundamental human rights, with freedom and independence of the media, which are core values of the european union. but in turkey, there are opposition parties and a huge mass of people who do not approve of what is happening in their country. the european union's policy should be to promote political reforms in order to consolidate democracy in turkey. the european union is interested in cooperation with turkey on foreign policy, security and economic matters. in view of all this, let us ask ourselves how correct the report's recommendation is to end the negotiations with turkey. will the termination make the border between turkey and the european union more secure? what alternative do we offer to the large part of turkish society that is pro-european? by cutting off the bridges to turkey, where are we pushing it? will we not push it towards islamization and radicalization?
mr telicka, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to congratulate mrs pirri on her report. finally, after five years, i see in this room a report that concerns turkey, that is close to reality. the republic of turkey today is not a european country. the republic of turkey is today a state that interferes unacceptably in the internal affairs of neighboring states. i can give an example of her interference in the internal affairs of the republic of bulgaria. this interference is unacceptable, unacceptable and reprehensible both in the spiritual affairs of bulgarian muslims and in the unacceptable attempts to make political engineering on the territory of the republic of bulgaria. he's trying to organize political parties, trying to influence political parties, trying to distort the results of the elections in the republic of bulgaria. this is unacceptable and unacceptable. that is why i demand that the negotiations with the republic of turkey not only be frozen, but terminated. i hope that tomorrow this house will vote on the specific text that it proposes, which obliges the commission to terminate the talks with the republic of turkey.
given the scale of the active hybrid propaganda war being waged against the european union, we must admit that the measures we have taken so far are not enough. i strongly support the foreign service strategic communications task force becoming a permanent unit to counter disinformation campaigns and being adequately funded and staffed. it is not only the european union but also the member states that need to create such structures. for example, bulgaria has created such a structure. i know other countries have them, too. under the leadership of commissioner maria gabriel, the european commission has also proposed a coordinated response to this challenge: a code of conduct for online platforms, measures to promote education and critical thinking, especially of the younger generations of the european union, support for objective investigative journalism. all of this needs to be put into action as soon as possible. our response to hybrid warfare must also include measures to identify and sanction those responsible for organising and conducting disinformation campaigns through online media, influence agents and others. of course, criticism of the european union - not all criticism is hybrid warfare. the european union is not a sacred cow. we all need to be critical of what is happening around us, but also not allow third parties to carry out hostile propaganda against us.
mr. president, i would like to president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, article 9 of the fourth and fifth anti-money laundering and terrorist financing directives contains a clear obligation for the european commission to carry out an analysis of the legal and institutional framework of non-eu countries, the powers of their competent authorities and the effectiveness of their systems, in order to identify where problems exist in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. these requirements were agreed jointly by the european parliament and the council and at no point during the negotiations did any member state oppose these powers of the commission. let me be clear before the european commission published lists of high-risk countries, virtually identical to those of the fatf. but for the first time, it was tasked with an analysis that took into account but was not identical to that of the fatf. the european union is a huge single market and the commission's main task is to protect its functioning from all kinds of threats, including those from third countries. the commission considers that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the principles of the guidelines on state aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty, as laid down in the guidelines on state aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty, as amended by the guidelines on state aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty. but that does not mean that all financial flows are questionable or that business with these countries will stop. the increased attention resulting from the list is a warning to obliged entities to be careful, because otherwise they will be liable for aiding money laundering and terrorist financing.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the visa information system is an important element of the security framework in the european union, because it allows the competent services to check the authenticity and validity of visas issued allowing free movement within the schengen area. the fact that the system at this stage only includes short-stay visas, however, is a breach of european security. i therefore welcome the reform proposed by the european commission last year, which will see the system storing information on long-term visas and residence permits within the european union. these documents also allow for free movement within schengen and it is important for authorities fighting illegal migration and ensuring the security of european citizens to have information on their validity and authenticity. the reform of the visa information system is also an important element of the interconnectedness of information systems in the field of security in the european union. it is high time that the security authorities could make use of the information available in the various systems, without, of course, compromising the security of personal information and data of citizens. last but not least, i would like to call on the home affairs council to finally take a positive decision on bulgaria's immediate accession to schengen, which will allow our country to actively use the visa information system and thus contribute to ensuring security in europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the migration and asylum fund is one of the most important funds in the field of home affairs because of the support it provides to member states in dealing with migration and the reception of refugees. i welcome the substantial increase in the budget proposed by the european commission. it is proof that the issue of migration will remain on the agenda and that no country will be left alone to deal with the ongoing migratory pressure. as a representative of a country on the front line of the migration wave of recent years, it is extremely important to me that part of the funds under the fund are used to return illegal migrants back to their countries of origin. it is unacceptable that less than 40% of people who have no right to reside in the european union are returned. this percentage should be increased significantly. the european union cannot and should not be a lifeline for all those who want to live here for purely economic reasons. anyone who is not a refugee or a legal migrant should be returned to the country from which they came and the fund should support return activities.
in writing. this week, all of us in the european parliament have been following with particular interest the uk's series of votes. although we don't yet know what the final results in the house of commons will be, we can say that we have witnessed a dangerous approach to a no-deal brexit. i have always maintained that this is the worst-case scenario for bulgaria and our citizens. we're now one step away from finally avoiding him and moving on to the extension option. now that the decision has been made to not allow a no-deal exit, we need to see what mandate will be given to the government for the summit next week. the british government can, of course, ask for an extension, but the question is under what conditions and for how long. all i can say is that the uk is on the verge of running for the european parliament again, which will certainly create problems for the european union. we're expecting answers to all these questions over the next week.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against the proposed text, even though migration is one of the biggest problems facing the european union today. the proposal made is completely unacceptable, because instead of striving to achieve real results, we are again talking about an instrument that focuses on the so-called integration of immigrants who have entered the territory of the member states, both those who are legally resident and those who have entered illegally. this is unacceptable and unacceptable to me, intruding into another culture, traditions, customs. solidarity should be one of the principles on which the european union is founded. but the very idea of spending money on registering people who have entered illegally or illegally, or who have been denied the right to reside in the territory of the european union, is completely unacceptable to me. furthermore, it cannot be overstated that the consultations for the creation of the fund are mainly attended by various ngos that are usually involved in trafficking in human beings.
mr president, there is no doubt that in order to manage the ongoing migration crisis on its borders the eu needs to reform profoundly its migration policy and for member states to share responsibility and show political will. this is the only way through which we can save thousands of human lives and stop human trafficking in europe. the establishing of the asylum and migration fund is just such a positive step towards the efficient management of migration by the eu. i welcome the fact that, under the proposal, the member states will fulfil their obligations to centralise and develop all aspects of the common european asylum system, develop legal migration channels, promote the integration of third country nationals, ensure effective and sustainable returns and give meaning to the notion of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility.
i voted against this report because the european commission is proposing the creation of a new fund for integrated border management within the next multiannual financial period, which is a good thing so far. but what is undoubtedly needed is the support of the member states, including my own country, bulgaria, which is an external border of the european union with a country that we can hardly call our partner anymore, the republic of turkey. there are quite controversial proposals that once again show the bureaucratic manner and approach of working to push through extremely liberal policies and practices disguised as some kind of ostensibly useful tools. throughout the document, illegal border crossing is regulated by the term 'unregulated'. the two terms are completely and fundamentally different and the fact that someone has entered illegally into the territory of a member state of the european union would not imply any disruption or any dysfunction of the border authorities towards the border states of the european union. the report includes a number of requirements and references to instruments to guarantee the human rights of migrants, which in a situation of threat to national security could not be placed above the rights of citizens of the border member states of the union.
mr president, as we all know the main goal of the european union’s policy in the field of external border management is to develop and implement european integrated border management. however, this has to be done within defined limits and subject to the appropriate safeguards, hand—in—hand with the free movement of persons within the union – a fundamental component of an area of freedom, security and justice. in this context, i warmly welcome the proposed regulation for the establishment of the instrument for financial support for border management and visas. i’m in favour of a financial framework with which to help address the evolving challenges more effectively. it is the right step towards real management and security of eu external borders.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the environment is a concern for all of us. the attitude towards it is a matter of family upbringing, of social example, but also of policies. to my great regret, according to the latest statistics, the capital of my home country bulgaria, sofia, is the 15th most polluted city in the world in terms of environmental and air pollution. the problems range from the burning of non-green raw materials for heating, which in many cases is also dictated by social poverty, and low education, to the use of old cars and the availability of expensive urban transport. in addition to the global aspects of tackling industrial emissions from factories and plants and those from the transport sector, we also have to tackle the social factor of ignorance, poverty and lack of understanding of the problem. i think we need to invest in environmental awareness so that we don't have to invest a lot more in healthcare later.
i voted 'abstention' on this report because, on the one hand, improving air quality should undoubtedly be a priority for each and every one of us. the problems of air quality requirements are important and their discussion should be at the top of our agenda. although air quality in europe is improving over time, there are still many places where air quality standards are exceeded, in particular for particulate matter and nitrogen dioxide. the union is tackling air quality through a number of specific legal measures: a low-emission mobility application, an energy union, reform of the common agricultural policy, new national emission ceilings, new limits on air pollution from large combustion plants. the union devotes considerable resources to projects to reduce air pollution. europe's air will not improve without a concerted, concerted effort. and the solution is not to lay down new rules, given that two thirds of the union's countries have problems with the implementation of the current rules and regulations, which were laid down in 2008 but which are also replicating those of the 1990s. the balance must be struck between action and social costs. bulgaria's main priority is to reduce air pollution from poor-quality domestic heating, especially in roma slums.
rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. madam president, the european union's economy is entering its sixth year of growth as a result of structural reforms, investment and responsible fiscal policies. these good economic conditions are an opportunity to focus on creating the conditions for sustainable economic growth that is socially just and environmentally sustainable. we have a responsibility to future generations not only to not burden them with debt but also to not jeopardize their ability to meet their needs. the great challenges ahead of us remain. the ageing population or the unsustainable use of natural resources are risk factors for our long-term potential for economic development. the environment committee believes that a green economy and investments in more efficient healthcare systems are key to the well-being of european citizens. the recommendations of the european semester are a good tool to encourage the necessary structural reforms in this direction. a longer-term perspective should be taken in monitoring and evaluating reforms, as results often take several years to be delivered. we support the allocation of funds in the next programming period to support member states in implementing the structural reform recommendations.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on regional development. madam president, the honourable member the commissioner, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on regional development in its opinion welcomes the positive dynamics of economic growth and investment but is concerned that their impact on productivity and jobs is not sufficient. this requires a better focus on cohesion policy investments and their complementarity with other union programmes, as well as public and private investments. the commission and the member states need to strengthen their cooperation and take further measures to attract private and public investment, build partnerships and convergence in order to achieve complementarity between the european union funds and instruments. we welcome the proposals for the next multiannual financial framework and the close link between the european semester and the future structural investment funds. in conclusion, i would like to highlight the role of the structural reform support programme, which provides tailor-made assistance to help member states carry out their structural reforms.
in writing. when it comes to family law relationships and parental responsibility, nothing is more important than protecting the best interests of the child. often, when parents have a conflict or a separation, the child cannot understand what is happening. it is our role as legislators to ensure that the best interests of the child are always put first. the revised text of the proposal to amend the brussels iia regulation does just that, and the text now contains a number of safeguards on the protection of the interests of the child in the event of a separation between parents or in cases of child abduction by a single parent. we see that there is an obligation to give the child the opportunity to express his opinion during the trial, and he can do this directly or through a representative. we must bear in mind that the child's opinion in such proceedings is always of the utmost importance and must be heard and taken into account, regardless of his age. i've said before that procedures should be as brief as possible and conducted in a language the child understands. i am glad that the council has listened to parliament and introduced a six-week period for the child to be returned to the family, which is also a significant step forward.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, let us congratulate our colleague on raising a very important issue. he gives us a lot of answers. in the european parliament, we debate, we discuss feelings, emotions, the harm to fish. and then we wonder why there is such serious scepticism among some of the citizens of the european union. when they watch this debate, it might be extremely interesting and important for them to learn what exactly the emotions of the fish are at any given moment. and then they ask themselves why they pay taxes and with their taxes what are we doing in this room dealing with feelings, emotions of fish. it's probably good. i would emphasize more the interests, the rights, the expectations of our fellow citizens to work for their well-being and their way of life, rather than being so interested in the emotions of fish.
mr president, i too wish to express my views on this question which has been put to the commission. as my colleagues have already said, this is a particularly important issue: combating racism, xenophobia, protecting our european union citizens who have african ancestry and are often discriminated against because of the colour of their skin. it's a very important subject. it is a pity that it is being discussed in this way here on thursday at the end of the plenary session. but it is also a good challenge for the next european commission and the next european parliament to pay much more attention to this issue. i am aware that this commission, although the commissioner has read some of the activities here, is probably not doing much on this important subject, but it is important that the next commission should take up its harder fight against racism and xenophobia and make greater efforts to integrate into european societies those of our fellow citizens who are vulnerable for some reason and are simply discriminated against or affected by racism. it is very important that we can admit this, that we can say that there is racism in european societies, that the descendants of africans, our fellow africans, are often discriminated against, and that not only the nation states but also the european commission must pay attention to this, both institutionally, as has been said here, and especially financially. this is a question for the financial policy of the european union in the next planning period.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the question of the fundamental rights of africans in europe is an interesting one. that must be a very important question. it touches on topics that need to be discussed a lot. but for me, as a representative of the bulgarian nation in the european parliament, the rights and legitimate interests of, for example, the bulgarian citizens, 500 thousand of them, who will be forced to migrate to western europe, if the "mobility" package or the "macron" package happens, are very important and very visible. so i have no objection to leftists all over europe and in this european parliament finding problems and fighting them. we live in free societies. everyone has the right to fight their own political battles. but at the end of the day, the issues of the citizens of african countries should be the issues of african countries. we, the representatives of european countries, must take care of the rights and legitimate interests of our citizens.
on behalf of a number of meps reaching at least the low threshold. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this term of office, the european parliament is about to make one of its biggest mistakes, namely to allow a package that has been rejected three times to be voted on for the fourth time without having had time to see a single compromise or agreement. it's gonna be like a roll of the dice. a thousand and six hundred corrections is a guarantee of total chaos. vote to end the 'mobility' package and save the bread and jobs of millions of europeans.
mr president, the scandals of recent years, such as the panama papers, the luxembourg papers and the cases involving billions of euros laundered through a number of european banks, have shown that, despite the strict rules of the european union, much remains to be done to make the fight against tax evasion and avoidance and against money laundering more effective. the report of the tacis 3 special committee, which we are discussing today, contains a number of recommendations in this direction, including some extremely bold proposals, such as the creation of a european financial police. given the cross-border nature of tax evasion and money laundering, it is unacceptable for member states to refuse to share information. the culture of secrecy should be replaced by a culture of data and information sharing. i am pleased that the financial intelligence sharing directive, which i negotiated earlier this year, has laid the foundations for stronger cooperation within the european union between financial intelligence units. i hope that in the next legislative review, the exchange of information will be made mandatory and within specific deadlines. this is necessary not only for the sake of european security, but also in order to track the flow of dirty money, stop it and... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, i strongly condemn the murders of journalists in malta and slovakia. what has happened in these countries is unacceptable and contrary to european values, european rules, so we in the epp strongly condemn these killings. we urge the relevant parties to investigate and provide the full truth to the public. not just those who are perpetrators, but also those who are the instigators and the instigators of these murders, because journalists in european countries should have the freedom and the security to investigate the crimes of their governments, of course, wherever they are. i do not agree with those colleagues who have tried to put bulgaria next to these countries as a country where journalists are killed, because in bulgaria there was no such case.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of climate change is not being discussed for the first time in this chamber. 84% of european citizens responded in the largest survey ever conducted that they want the clock to be abolished. science and experience also show that this practice is an economic antiquity that carries health risks and affects workers' productivity. it also has influence in the agricultural sector. with this directive, that is about to become a reality. i think the proposal for a new coordination mechanism and the recommendation for joint decision-making by member states on a regional basis are right, so as not to fragment the single market that is now functioning. that's why i'm supporting him. i call on the council to follow this balanced approach and to adopt the proposed directive as soon as possible, in order to meet the interests of the majority of europeans.
mr. chairman, commissioner, through today's debate we are showing that we are listening to our citizens. i would like to join my colleagues who said that 84% of our citizens have made it clear that they do not want us to change the hands of the clock any more. that is why, as rapporteur for the epp group in the committee on the internal market, i have been actively working to put an end to this practice. a number of studies confirm that in the days following the time change, complaints of insomnia and loss of concentration increase, as do road and work accidents. if years ago the main argument for introducing seasonal change was precisely the saving of electricity, today this argument is no longer valid. there's no economic argument we can make in the face of health. we have listened to the concerns of the europeans and that is precisely what we have been working to address in recent months. our report makes it clear that by 2021, we must stop changing the weather. but now it's the council's turn to reach an agreement and to turn a clear civic position into reality.
ladies and gentlemen, in this chamber we often lecture this or that country on the rule of law. it's often the same countries that we're giving these lessons to. at the same time, we continue to keep our eyes closed to the immorality that, unfortunately, has become the norm in my country of bulgaria during the rule of gerb. in recent days it has become clear that representatives of this party have been buying properties at prices many times below market prices. several times we heard their argument that the price was negotiated between the buyer and the seller and there was nothing illegal. why, colleagues, are young families or people with low incomes unable to shop at such prices? how can you call yourself a moral lawmaker or a representative of the people if you can't or just don't want to enforce the law? it's time to end this moral degradation in a country with rampant corruption, the most suppressed journalism and the lowest living standards in the european union.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur and all my colleagues in the committee on regional development for the professionally prepared and approved legislative report on the proposal for a regulation on the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund. the european commission proposal we have been working on clearly sets out a position which is for greater efficiency, more flexibility and simplification of the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund. it was vital that this message and this trend be preserved in the report which was adopted by the committee on regional development. i would like to highlight a few positive elements of the report. first, it is the increase of the contribution of the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund to climate change objectives by 35% and 40% of the cohesion fund respectively. the commission's proposal for urban development is 10% to strengthen the urban dimension of cohesion policy and support the successful implementation of the urban agenda. for the liberal and democratic group, there are several key elements of the regulation that are in the context of the reformed cohesion policy and its interaction with other community sectoral policies. we support the commission's proposal for thematic concentration based on gross national income, flexibility and adaptability at the level of individual regions. the alde position is to maintain the concentration of resources towards a smarter and lower carbon europe. as regards the exclusion of investments from funding, i would like to stress that it is necessary to have a balanced approach between the specific objectives, the eligible activities and the list of exclusions.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, we have been talking a lot lately about where europe should not intervene, where we do not need the european union. but if there is one unconditional sector where action at eu level is watched by the whole world, it is the digital economy. to compete with markets like china and the us, we need to be united and capitalize on our strengths, and europe is where the consumer has guaranteed rights. if in the analog world we know where to find and make a claim for a coffee machine malfunction, for example, then for a malfunction in a mobile app, this was not the case until now. at least 70 million customers had problems with their subscriptions, but only 10% of them received any compensation. most of them don't even know who to turn to. as rapporteur for the epp group in the consumer committee, we have been working on this problem and it will now be clear where and how to obtain compensation for a defective digital service. i would like to thank my colleagues axel voss and pascal arrimont in particular for the cooperation we have had and for the fact that we can boast of a consumer directive which is an example of a truly ambitious europe. a europe that makes life easier for its citizens, a europe that sets the trends in consumer protection in the digital age.
mr. and mrs. mr president, i voted against the agreement reached in the trilogue on the new copyright directive. i believe that the text thus agreed does not strike a balance between respecting the rights of consumers and fair remuneration of copyright holders. the speed with which new technologies are developing undoubtedly requires a renewal of copyright legislation. but this reform cannot and should not happen at any cost. the unprecedented wave of public reaction is itself indicative of the fact that controversial texts cross red lines. for me, that red line is article 13 in its current form. yes, artists should be supported and should start to receive a decent wage for their work. however, freedom of expression on the internet cannot be used as a bargaining chip to achieve these goals. i cannot support a reform that would create the conditions for filtering user content on the web and put legislators at an even greater disadvantage than before.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on regional development. mr in its opinion, the committee on regional development, chaired by mr commissioner, welcomes the steady decline in the rate of error in the calculation of the economic, social and territorial cohesion expenditure over the last few years. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume and market share developed over the period considered as follows: errors in financial instruments, ineligible expenditure and declarations of ineligible expenditure contributed most to the calculated error rate in cohesion policy. some of the errors identified are linked to specific cases and mitigation actions have already been taken. we welcome the increased budgetary flexibility resulting from the mff mid-term review, but consider that further measures to increase flexibility and simplification will need to be taken.
mr president, i would like to congratulate both rapporteurs on the discharge of the eu’s agencies and the european parliament for the financial year 2017. these are institutions whose functioning has a substantial impact on the everyday lives of european citizens and on their perception of the effectiveness of law-making within the union. these 32 agencies had a combined budget of eur 2.24 billion in payment appropriations. bearing in mind the magnitude of their activities, for us it is important that eca issued clear opinions on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the agencies’ accounts, except for one of them. despite some weaknesses related to staffing, public procurement procedures and a lack of harmonisation of information technology, we should underline that the agencies demonstrated increased cooperation that helped to enhance their visibility. furthermore, they were able to demonstrate improvements in efficiency as well as to generate added value. concerning the european parliament, we also have positive attitudes. the use of the financial resources in the fulfilment of objectives for 2017 shows encouraging results: 99 % of the budget was committed, and only 1 % had to be cancelled. this proves good management of financial resources. at the same time, the objectives pursued, and outcomes achieved, during the year stem mainly from the priorities set by parliament’s competent bodies preparing the budget. some of the improvements introduced within parliament during the year 2017 helped not only to increase the effectiveness of its functioning generally, but also to support … (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, since 2007 the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) has been the main financial instrument supporting reforms in the candidate and potential candidate countries – for example the six western balkan countries and turkey. the most important specific of the current ipa ii has been its strategic focus in the face of country strategy papers which represent specific planning documents made for each beneficiary for a seven-year period. in this context i warmly welcome the commission proposal for establishing ipa iii for the next period. i do believe that ipa over the years has been a very successful and effective instrument when it comes to alignment and coherence between the eu and the candidate countries. therefore, i fully support the establishment of ipa iii with a focus on the rule of law, fundamental rights and migration, eu policies and acquis, socioeconomic development investments for growth and good neighbourly relations. importantly, the establishment of ipa iii has to be done not only in coherence with the priorities of the western balkan strategy and eu enhanced engagement with the region, but with increased flexibility and cooperation with turkey, in the context of possible turkish accession to the eu in the future. last, but not least, ipa iii has to become a natural continuity of ipa ii, which needs to be implemented fully by all candidate states.
madam president, at the beginning of this session, president tusk highlighted an initial text in the conclusions of the council, namely ‘a strong economic base is of key importance for europe’s prosperity and competitiveness’. and he pointed out that the commission is invited to present by the end of 2019 a long—term vision for the eu’s industrial future with concrete measures to implement it. now, mr president, i appeal to you – and through you to president tusk, who for the moment has left, but i see he’s coming back – and to vice—president katainen: think carefully what this wording means. by the end of 2019, the commission shall be presenting a long—term vision. this cannot be a technocratic exercise, mr president. this should take into consideration the de—industrialisation of central and eastern europe over the past decades. if we want to have a balanced industrial future, it has to take into consideration this central challenge for industry, jobs and growth. at the beginning of this meeting, mr president, you had to tackle the issue of mobility. now, this is an example of services from eastern europe being driven out of the market by using legitimate social and labour concerns. this is something which should be avoided at all costs, and i do invite you to personally pursue and oversee how this industrial future paper will be transmitted from one parliament to the other, from one commission to the other, because this is key to the future of europe.
madam president, it is good that there is a debate on this subject because it shows the different points of view and the complexity of the subject. the mobility 1 package in question is contrary to the fundamental european values and the idea of a single market. this approach to the problem does not help the construction of the single market in any way, but on the contrary, undermines it. of course, international transport drivers deserve good working conditions because the profession is hard and responsible, but this cannot be done by destroying an entire business that has developed on free market principles and which in my country alone generates 17% of gdp and provides food for almost 500 000 people. the european union is not made stronger by pitting the countries of the periphery against those of the centre. this is not what european citizens expect. the rejection of two of the three dossiers in the committee on transport and tourism is a clear signal of the lack of consensus on a package of this kind and we cannot afford to accept it irresponsibly. an act that will have a devastating socio-economic impact on millions of citizens engaged in the sector.
madam chairman, first of all, let me congratulate chairman tajani, who made the only decision possible. it's not for the supporters or the opponents of this mobile package, but simply for the rule of law in this parliament. we have been literally blackmailed several times by saying that if this package was not adopted, the member states would adopt unilateral decisions. tell me if this is the european union or the european union of nations, which is perhaps four groups to the right of the socialist one. the corporate dumping that western european companies imposed actually caused social dumping, because simply western companies started paying half as much to polish, romanian and bulgarian carriers, and they caused this social dumping. we offered you to avoid this battle and not discuss this package at the end of the term, and you thought that was weakness. we are ready for this battle and we will fight it until the end of this parliament and the next.
madam president, i heard that there are supporters of the mobility package who said they were fighting for the transport sector. - what? by proposing measures to bankrupt him? - you did? a compromise was reached, which is a good basis for a vote. that's not true. it takes two sides to compromise, and one was missing. for the first time in the history of this parliament, someone has written a report on behalf of a rapporteur without his knowledge. this is not a compromise. let's be honest, there are two weeks left until the end of this parliament, no time to prepare a reasonable and balanced solution. the only solution is to leave it for the next parliament, which has a five-year horizon. it's not about transportation anymore, it's about common sense. fourth consecutive attempt was made to get this package across, fourth consecutive failure. that should tell you something, it's not a solution. a lot of things were accomplished, but five times as much was wrong. we must leave this package for the next parliament.
in writing. in the european parliament, we work for a cleaner environment, for cleaner parks, streets, beaches and mountains. eighty percent of the waste on the beach is plastic. to protect our beautiful nature, from 2021, we are banning single-use plastic items such as cups, plates, utensils, straws and others. we also plan measures to use and recycle the plastic waste already accumulated - by 2025, 25% of bottles must be made from recycled material. clean nature is the responsibility of each of us, but producers must be transparent with their consumers about the impact of plastic products, and too often citizens do not have comprehensive information about this. with the new legislation, we want to make it mandatory to clearly state on the labels the negative environmental effects of the disposal of plastic cigarette filters in the street, as well as for other products such as plastic cups, wet wipes and hygiene products. i believe that on the old continent, we can all together be drivers of change, set global trends and fight pollution for the sake of our children and ourselves.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, since the start of the dialogue between the commission and kosovo on visa liberalisation until 2016, the commission adopted four progress reports. in may 2016, the commission presented its last two proposals, namely for kosovo to ratify the border agreement with montenegro and to continue the fight against organised crime. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. in addition to these last two criteria, kosovo was placed on another 95 criteria which were met. given the commitment made by kosovo, it is high time that the diligent negotiations and efforts of the government of kosovo were rewarded with clear results. it is time to show the citizens of kosovo that the european union is reliable not only for its own citizens but also for its friends beyond the union's borders. i think it is time to show the european and kosovar citizens that when we set clear criteria and a clear result is achieved, we in the european union are fulfilling our solemn commitment, and that commitment is to allow the citizens of kosovo to travel freely within the european union. let us not forget that kosovo is the last country in the western balkans for which visa liberalisation is not a fact. let's not justify ourselves with international crime, because visa liberalization is not the barrier that will stop that crime. i would like to recall some facts, namely that the number of asylum applications from kosovo has fallen dramatically, that kosovo has signed 20 readmission agreements with european union countries, that kosovo is launching a campaign to inform citizens about the rights and obligations of the visa-free regime, that kosovo has increased the number of border police as a preventive measure, and that kosovo has a legal framework that covers all aspects of terrorism and is in line with the acquis of european union law and international instruments to combat terrorism. finally, i would like to emphasise that kosovo continues to fulfil all the other criteria set out in the visa liberalisation roadmap, relating to readmission and reintegration, document security, migration and border management, public order and security. that's why i'm proposing that we vote in favor of kosovo's visa liberalization.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner avramopoulos, commissioner mr. king, first of all, i'd like to thank the co-rapporteurs for their successful work on the report. the terrorist attacks of recent years have demonstrated a huge breach in european security. the various law enforcement agencies have a huge amount of information, but they don't share it because they don't have the necessary mechanisms. yes, the european union has built up a variety of systems over the years, but each one has a specific purpose and the information in it is stored independently without being checked against information in other systems. this has led to a fragmented approach to security. the need to ensure what is known as interconnectedness of systems has therefore come to the fore. in plain english, how do the different european databases - visa, schengen, entry/exit and so on - talk to each other and a police officer or a border guard, in the process of checking a person, see if there's a record of that person in any of the systems. i welcome the fact that with the agreement reached, this will now be a reality. the competent authorities will now be able to carry out full checks on suspicious persons using biographical and biometric data, will be able to detect the existence of multiple identities for a person, will be able to cross-check the available information and thus better assess whether the person in front of them represents a threat to european security. at the same time, in order to avoid infringing the rights of innocent people, the protection of personal data will be guaranteed, with specific in-depth checks of data being carried out only by staff with access rights to the systems. in order to make this interconnection a success, it is the responsibility of the member states to submit signals and quality information to the european databases. only in this way will we achieve a genuine exchange of information, so important in the fight against terrorism and illegal migration.
mr president, i congratulate mrs nibler on the agreement reached on the directive on preventive restructuring, second chance and measures to increase the efficiency of restructuring, insolvency and discharge procedures. it is well known that effective and efficient insolvency procedures are an element of a good business environment. they support trade and investment. they help create and preserve jobs and help economies overcome shocks that lead to high levels of debt and unemployment. in practice, differences in national insolvency proceedings can make the protection of the interests of companies costly and time-consuming, thus hampering the functioning of national economies and the common market as a whole. uncertainty about insolvency rules and procedures is seen as a deterrent to cross-border expansion and investment. every year, 1.7 million people lose their jobs because of the bankruptcy of the company they work for. with the new directive we aim to help small and medium-sized enterprises. they would benefit from the introduction of key principles for preventive restructuring and second chance for businesses in the member states, as well as shorter and more effective insolvency procedures. we also aim to give entrepreneurs a second chance by forgiving their debts. this will eliminate perpetual debtors and reduce the amount of non-performing loans in banks' balance sheets and prevent the accumulation of such loans in the future. however, in order to achieve this, it is essential that the rules on waiving obligations also apply to consumers. i therefore hope that the member states will take account of the recommendation in the text, namely to start combating consumer over-indebtedness by introducing binding rules on consumer debt relief as soon as possible. (the president agreed to answer the question 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. when there are procedures, clearly described, with clear rules, that will help us even with partial debt relief to keep small and medium-sized enterprises functional, to keep jobs, it is in the interest of the whole economy, both creditors and debtors.
madam president, erasmus+ is one of the few programmes that has proved its european added value. in this sense, the tripling of the budget will help to achieve the ambitious objectives of the programme, namely reaching more young people and more approved financial projects. the current budget levels show a serious imbalance between high demand levels and real supply. in other words, a number of high-quality projects are rejected for lack of sufficient funds, which has a negative effect. besides having a bigger budget, the next programme must first of all be accessible and inclusive. young people with limited financial means and people with disabilities should have equal access to mobility opportunities. last but not least, following the same logic, i share the view that the scope of the programme should be extended to vocational education and training and to student mobility.
mr president, in the next programming period, the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund will have to deal with a number of challenges, including the backwardness of the union's remote and poorer regions. in this respect, the social and economic crisis of recent years has unfortunately further deepened the inequalities between regions. in this connection, i would like to emphasize two important points. firstly, the absence or insufficient reference to culture in the legislative texts creates additional obstacles for the sector to apply for european funds. this is problematic, because when we talk about poor, backward regions in the union, we have to bear in mind that a large part of them rely mainly on european funding. secondly, i believe that future cohesion policy should make tackling the demographic crisis a priority. at least 5% of the regional development fund resource should be allocated to regions most affected by depopulation and ageing.
madam president, i voted in favour of the idea of abolishing visas for kosovo because i am convinced, i believe, knowing the situation there, that this will help the development of the state of kosovo in the first place. it will help its citizens to have closer ties with the other countries of the european union, it will help to improve their quality of life, education, trade links, in general useful things that would make this part of the western balkans region more stable.
madam president, creative europe is the only programme of its kind in the field of culture and creative industries at european level. unfortunately, we have to note the low success rate of the projects, which is due to one reason - a serious lack of funding under the programme. the lack of adequate budget and support for cultural workers creates a sense of frustration among them and demotivates them from applying again. i think that in the next programming period we should try to improve this bad reputation that the program has gained in the cultural circles. we need to show creators in the european union that their work is worthwhile by providing them with the financial support they need and by significantly reducing red tape by simplifying the application procedures for the programme. in this respect, i fully support that the budget for 'creative europe' should be doubled for the next multiannual financial framework. culture is not something that should be discussed only during the election campaign.
, on behalf of a number of members reaching at least the low threshold . – mr president, this is the fifth attempt in a row to put the mobility package back on the agenda. this has never happened before in the history of this institution. not a single step has been made towards a compromise, nor a single shadow meeting nor a single conversation, nor a single effort to understand of all points of view. i ask you to vote in favour of removing the mobility package from the agenda. (applause)if we allow this again – if we put this mobility package back on the agenda – if we neglect the result of yesterday’s vote in the transport committee, it means that there is no rule of law in this chamber. now, 45 days before the election there is no one that can explain why this is the right thing. so please, follow your conscience, vote in favour of moving this mobility package.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on regional development. mr president, commissioner, the committee on regional development in its opinion supports the possibilities for simplification and greater flexibility in the proposal for a european maritime and fisheries fund, as well as for complementarity and synergy with other community funds and programmes. we stress the need to promote integrated management of maritime regions in the future in relation to cross-border cooperation, macro-regional strategies and regional development opportunities. we welcome the fact that the proposal strengthens the fund's link with the protection of the environment and ecosystems, and we propose that 30% of the budget be directed towards mitigating the effects of climate change. we are not in favour of cutting the budget and we propose to keep the budget from the current planning period. we hope that measures for sustainable fisheries tourism, which have added value in terms of job creation and diversification, will also be included. we need and support measures to link research and promote partnerships in research.
mr. and mrs. president, commissioner, according to the european commission, there are currently over 86 different types of identity cards and 181 different types of documents certifying the right to reside in the european union. moreover, over 17 million european citizens live in a member state other than their own. the current fragmentation of what id cards should look like and what data they should contain puts their security in question. in the context of the migration crisis and the terrorist threat, which have led to an increase in the number of cases of counterfeit and falsified european identity documents, the agreement we are discussing today is of particular importance. the changes will make european identity cards and residence permits more secure. the common format and security measures, the introduction of fingerprints on cards, the introduction of common rules on validity will make them very difficult to counterfeit. at the same time, european citizens will be helped by the fact that id cards can be used to pass electronic, faster exits at airports. ladies and gentlemen, the security of the european union depends on the security guaranteed by each of its member states. the new identity documents will make it extremely difficult to use another identity and will make it easier to detect forged documents. in this way, they will be another effective tool in the fight against terrorism and crime.
mr president, i voted against this report because it does not reflect the interests of entrepreneurs from the periphery, central and eastern europe. this report was outrageous, its vote was shameful and disgraceful, and for that reason i voted against it.
mr president, this report, like the previous one, is extremely unfair to the carriers from the periphery, from central eastern europe. the proposals in the report are aimed at one thing only, to bankrupt the eastern entrepreneurs and to move, to move the workforce from the central eastern companies to western europe. it's not fair. the european union cannot run on one foot, it cannot run on one foot. these proposals are directed against the idea of free markets, against the idea of free competition. this is protectionism on the part of the german, french, belgian and italian stakeholders. the report thus undermines the idea of a european union in which the interests of each member state will be respected. that is why i voted against it and i say again that the way it was voted today was a disgrace to this parliament.
mr president, once again, at the end of these three reports i voted against the report because the three together in the package represent a drastic violation of the idea of free market and competition. it turns out that when western companies want to sell to bulgaria, to romania, to poland, chain stores, grocery stores, they sell. however, when companies from bulgaria, romania, poland, the czech republic, hungary want to work in western european countries, it turns out that this cannot happen. it's not fair, it's not right, it violates the very idea of the european union, of a single free market. the way the vote was conducted today was extremely dishonest, many rules were broken and this is perhaps the most scandalous vote in the european parliament so far. it divides very sharply, right in the middle, the european representatives. there is no majority for this decision, it was imposed by force, it was lobbying and it will be extremely harmful to european citizens.
the rapporteur is mr juri. madam president, once again we are witnessing an attempt to impose market restrictions through manipulations on the subjects of 'social dumping' and 'social rights'. moreover, we see a proposal to set up an agency which, on the one hand, should not interfere with national regulations and the free movement of workers, but on the other hand should sanction member states. once again, and for no particular reason, road transport is explicitly mentioned in the report. this means that western european governments continue to fear eastern entrepreneurs and workers and decide to lightly introduce more and more new regulations. labour mobility in the union benefits european citizens, the economies of the member states and the member states as a whole. all efforts to regulate economic relations within the union must be subject to the principle of facilitating entrepreneurship. if this body is established, it would be a great sign for the european union to finally decide to move its headquarters to a country where there is no european agency. bulgaria, for example, has proved its worth as host of such an agency during its presidency of the council of the european union.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the establishment of a european-level authority called on to play an essential role in ending labour exploitation, ensuring fair worker mobility and tackling undeclared work is a landmark achievement. president juncker’s call in september 2017 was followed by a commission proposal as early as march of last year and intensive work by this parliament, together with the council, in arriving today at the point of agreement in record time. it is of vital importance to endeavour to make the european pillar of social rights everyday living reality for each and every european citizen, no matter from which member state he comes. moreover, it must become the guiding light for achieving superior competitiveness of european businesses on the basis of fully-fledged social partnership, collective bargaining and environmental sustainability. the lure for business to succumb to short-termism and the wages race to the bottom not only entails severe exploitation and abuse of mobile labour but also undermines the very foundations on which citizens base their allegiance to the union and, what is more, their willingness to engage in highly-productive and efficient work. let me end by urgently inviting all of us here and all those concerned to turn the launching of the european labour authority (ela) this autumn into a high-profile event, and to recommit to building a truly social union with vigorous welfare states as the only possible way to provide citizens with a life in dignity and security and the union with a promising future in this ever-more challenging world of ours. in these last few seconds i would just like to join in thanking my colleague mr lenaers for the terrific work he organised, the commission and ms thyssen for her commitment, council and all those who made an input to this success.
mr. chairman, it is undeniable that our democracy is something we must protect and something we must fight for. it is also clear that a number of representatives of this institution are concerned that the upcoming elections to the european parliament will be hijacked by some external factor. as an example of this, we often hear in this room the denunciation of the populist right and how dangerous the electoral successes of the right-wing parties in europe are. the audacity of the liberals in this room never ceases to amaze us. they underestimate the common sense of the european voter, trying to push the idea that if certain parties are successful in elections, it must be the result of some mysterious outside interference. let me remind the esteemed members of the liberal elite that for more than two years now, we have been hearing how powerful russian interference in the 2016 united states presidential election helped president trump. the investigation, led by robert mueller, found no conspiracy. you see, we can't blame everyone whose position we don't like for being elected by outside forces. this undermines trust not only in institutions but also in democracy and, in particular, in the ability of people to make informed choices about their future.
mr president, in recent years the international environment has changed significantly and we have witnessed a number of cyber-attacks led by both state and non-state actors during the electoral process in the us, france and other countries. these attacks are designed to create chaos and disrupt the normal flow of the most democratic process, to undermine confidence in its performance and outcome, to create the feeling that democracy is easily vulnerable with a click and it can be brought to its knees. with the european parliament elections coming up - the most democratic institution of the european union - it is our duty to ensure that the electoral process runs smoothly, is not obstructed and its legitimacy is not called into question by a cyber attack. this requires efforts not only at european level by sharing information on threats, but also preparation by national authorities to ensure the cybersecurity of the vote. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the eu cybersecurity strategy, which is currently being developed by the european cybersecurity agency. it is important that such simulations also take place at member state level in order to prepare each member state to respond to a possible cyber attack before and during the vote. let me be clear: if elections in even one member state are called into question, elections in the whole european union will be called into question. this would be an unacceptable victory for those who want to divide the european union and weaken its strength, and we must not allow it.
mr president, as a citizen of a member state which has joined relatively recently, it is of the utmost importance to me that the issue of double standards be brought to a fair end within this mandate. this is a huge success for my political group of socialists and democrats. in particular, i would like to congratulate my colleagues olga sekhnalova and bilyana borzan. it was especially because of olga that the battle against the double standard was waged in the european parliament. it is not logical to apply the single market in the form of obligations and requirements but not to have a single market for the supply of identical products. the very fact that there are proven cases of differences proves that there is no free movement of goods and services in the european union, but selectively. i call on the bulgarian authorities to start the procedure for transposing the directive as soon as possible. after more than 10 years of membership, we cannot claim that there is no two-speed europe if there is no legislation to fight it.
mr president, if there is one european union agency that is really useful and worth supporting and maintaining, it is frontex. the protection of external borders is one of the most important issues facing us today. to preserve the free movement of goods, people and capital across the european union's internal borders, we must be persistent and consistent in protecting our external land and water borders. that is why i welcome the increase in frontex's powers. i would also like to stress the importance of the european border and coast guard standing corps envisaged in this report. for years, it has been said in this room that we must work together immediately for the union's border and coast guard, for zero migration and for the prevention of illegal migrants on our territory. europe must remain a closed house. our continent is undoubtedly the place with the highest quality of life, and of course, many people would like to come here. but living in europe is not a privilege. economic immigrants and invaders who don't accept our values, nor our way of life, have no place in our countries. let's also not forget that the channels for migrants are used by terrorist organizations. that is why frontex must be strengthened.
mr president, i remember five years ago, when i started this mandate as a member of the european parliament, how the idea of creating a european border and coast guard was just a project, an academic analysis of the pros and cons - something we were all talking about as possible by 2030, but not now. how naive we were! just one year later, over a million migrants -- refugees, economic migrants and even terrorists -- crossed europe's external borders, and however prepared the national border guards were, they could not contain the floods of people. we then very quickly realised the need for immediate european support for external borders in the event of a crisis and for continued support for difficult borders. we have realised that the strength of schengen is due to the strength of the external borders of europe. we realised that to keep europe safe at its heart, we had to guarantee security at its edges. four years later, here we are with a fully functioning european border and coast guard, and we are even talking about how by 2027 it will have 10,000 staff. with new powers to return illegal migrants, buy its own equipment and support national border guards, this strengthened agency is a true expression of solidarity between countries from inside the european union to those on europe's external borders.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i would like to congratulate my colleague mr tadeusz on the agreement reached and on the final text of this directive. i would like to stress that this directive will be of enormous benefit, especially to small and mediumsized enterprises. the absence of rules for online registration of companies or the divergence of those rules in the member states has created unnecessary costs and burdens for entrepreneurs wishing to set up a new business or to expand their activities by registering subsidiaries or branches in another country. with the new rules, this will now be easier and they will be able to register limited liability companies, create new branches and file documents in the commercial register entirely online. the procedures in countries that have introduced online registration, such as my country bulgaria, are generally cheaper and lead to faster document processing than those where applications are submitted in person and on paper. the new directive will make company registration online, which will reduce costs considerably. the principle of 'once-only' is therefore a contributing factor, whereby a company is required to submit the same information to the public authorities only once. the use of digital solutions in company law should provide for high standards of protection against fraud and abuse. in this regard, the control of the identity and legal capacity of persons setting up companies and the possibility of requiring a physical appearance before a competent authority are of particular importance. the provision of more information on companies to all stakeholders free of charge by trade registers will also be of great benefit to citizens.
madam president, i am pleased that we are discussing this piece of legislation today, which is part of the package on company law in the european union. i congratulate mrs. regner on her report. i also welcome the european commission, which has heeded our call and proposed harmonised rules on crossborder mergers and divisions. it should be borne in mind that the main objectives of harmonised rules are to allow undertakings, especially small undertakings, to transform, merge or split across a border in an organised, efficient and effective way. the adoption of this directive will make it much easier for european businesses to be mobile and efficient. i believe that the procedures for checking the legality of crossborder transactions within all the national legal frameworks concerned and the mandatory anti-abuse procedure will allow national authorities to block a crossborder transaction when it is carried out for the purpose of abuse or fraud. we have struck a balance between the freedom of establishment of enterprises and the protection of the legitimate interests of shareholders, creditors and employees of these enterprises. staff should be adequately informed of the expected consequences of the operation and the rights of minority and non-voting shareholders will be better protected. at the same time, the creditors of the company concerned will have clearer and more reliable guarantees for their claims.
blue-card answer. – i thought the blue card was to pose a question. i didn’t hear a real question. i only heard a statement against the european army, so i would skip this blue card. i think the people of europe stated really clearly in the eurobarometer that they were in favour of more collaboration on defence matters. i myself am in favour of a european army.
thank you, colleague. i would remind all my colleagues that the 'blue card' questions are used to put a question to the previous speaker, who will then give an answer.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i personally think there is a huge difference between a european army and more cooperation on defence, but that’s just a side remark. it has symbolic value that one of the first debates in this new parliament is about the eu’s global strategy because that’s going to be at the centre of a lot of our work over the next couple of years. i look forward to a more proactive and cooperative approach not only between all the political groups in this parliament but also between the parliament and member states. ms mogherini, you have given lavish praise to the eu global strategy so you will forgive me for adding a few criticisms. the eu global strategy – we read on the website of the european external action service – should be ‘a compass for our action in difficult times’. well, i have a few question marks there. it’s a global strategy without geography. how can you have a global strategy without geography? it does not really answer the question of which policies are more promising than others and should take priority. in that regard, the strategy is not strategic. it also emphasises the need for prevention, resolution and stabilisation but, when we look at the proposed multiannual financial framework (mff), it’s just the opposite. the mff proposes to slash most of the spending for these purposes and reduce it to a mere 40% of what we had before. so i think, if we take the strategy seriously, we should put our money where our mouth has been. i also believe that we should put more emphasis on climate urgency, which is completely underrated so far. so there’s a lot that should be improved.
mr president, by a margin of just nine votes, this parliament today has elected, on a ballot paper with just one candidate on it, ursula von der leyen, a euro-fanatic basically given the job by backroom deals, who is adamant that no matter what the question, the answer is always ‘more europe’. she is open about her desire to build an eu army yet says that we will be committed to nato. well, which one is it? because you cannot serve two masters. the uk must never surrender its sovereignty, which includes its armed forces. boris johnson and the tories, be warned. if you give up our armed forces to an eu army, the people’s army of the british electorate will punish you at the ballot box.
mr president, madam mogherini, i am pleased that this debate on the global strategy will mark the beginning of this parliament's work. i support any system and any world order that is based on international law and on respect for human rights and, of course, sustainable development. so, the only conclusion we have to make is that the world today is unfortunately not in a better state than it was in 2016, but if we take advantage of all the multilateral platforms, as this agreement says, and if we implement them, i am sure we can ensure peace and stability. so we have to use a global strategy, which is, as we said, the compass for external action in the world. surely political will is important and can be used to achieve results, greater levels of cooperation are needed, greater partnerships are needed, and you all know that citizens here expect a stronger europe from us, but not just the citizens of europe but the rest of the world. unfortunately, the european project is often called into question, and we must ensure peace, democracy and prosperity. just to answer you, sir, democracy is, by definition, one more vote.
mr president, i would like to thank the high representative for her constant presence and active participation in this chamber, and indeed, in discussing the eu global strategy: what has been achieved in protecting and promoting the multilateral rules-based order. the eu has invested significant political capital in turning the strategy vision into concrete action, especially in terms of the progress made on european defence and security. unfortunately, we are still witnessing numerous ongoing conflicts and, in many cases, our efforts to pursue peace and security remain unsuccessful. from syria to libya, from venezuela to iran, the eu must build the right consensus in order to find sustainable solutions to these ongoing crises. furthermore, the eu should not turn a blind eye to those who share our values and want to be part of our family. the strategy recognises the progress made by the western balkans – the prespa agreement and judicial reform in albania – but much more has to be done to reconfirm the eu perspective for the region and to foster the integration process.
mr president, three years later the five priorities the eu global strategy outlined in 2016 remain valid: the security of europe itself; a stable neighbourhood; an integrated approach to conflicts; cooperative regional orders; and an effective global governance. like other speakers, in particular, i welcome the increased defence cooperation between the eu member states and the steps taken to increase our military autonomy. still, the overall implementation of the strategy leaves room for improvement undoubtedly, but for a stronger and more coherent common foreign and security policy, the eu must among other points firstly better combine policies and tools ranging from diplomacy, security and defence, to finance, trade development and human rights. secondly, we need to strengthen the coherence, effectiveness and the flexibility of our external financing instruments. and thirdly, we need to move to qualified majority voting in specific areas of the common foreign and security policy. i’m thankful that the new commission president ursula von der leyen mentioned the latter point in her speech this morning, and i would like to thank federica mogherini for the good work she has done on this global strategy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while you, madam high representative, are continuing your important work in an international context of great uncertainty, disturbing elements are emerging about the intention of people very close to matteo salvini's lega, the ruling party of a founding country like italy, to establish relations with moscow through meetings and alleged hidden financing. the global strategy has been the basic framework for a decisive external action based on resilience, the centrality of international law, common european defence and strategic autonomy, also in the nato vein. we are now faced with a choice: we must either continue to pursue this autonomy or succumb to powers that are increasingly assertive and far less concerned with our core values. on the basis of the seriousness of the elements that have emerged in italy, but not only, i believe it is necessary, in the wake of the work you have already started with the stratcom task force, to set up a proper committee of inquiry into the contacts of european far-right parties with moscow to ascertain any hidden funding and political purposes. we can no longer underestimate what is emerging as a real threat to the community's order and its international standing.
mr president, the security strategy has highlighted the importance of a european union active in the external sphere. isolation for europe is not an option. the world today is globalised, complex, interconnected and multipolar. europeans on our own would be almost irrelevant. we are stronger together, but our common foreign policy needs - as you said, madam high representative - political will, that is, a deep conviction that it is better to act together. and unfortunately, in today's europe, fragmentation and division are increasing, and decision-making is also being slowed down by this, and we must add to this the obstacle of unanimity. the good news, these years, is the important progress in defence policy. as many of us have been saying, in a world so complex, with so many conflicts, crises and tensions, the european union cannot be just a soft power. without prejudice to our important links with nato, europeans must continue to develop, reinforcing our defence dimension.
mr president, while there are numerous issues on which the european union must play a greater role in the world – be it the united nations security council reform, climate change, supporting the international criminal court, or arms control agreements – there are many challenges within the european union itself that need to be tackled to enable the eu to be efficient in its role. the eu’s common security and defence policy has been considerably strengthened since this topic was first addressed in the eu global strategy a few years ago, but more needs to be done. expansion and better functioning of the permanent structured cooperation, the european defence fund and so on. this applies also to cyberspace and cybersecurity. unfortunately, climate change is also affecting regions that have so far remained calm, like the arctic, but the eu needs to invest more of its focus and develop a strategy to keep a lid on tensions in the arctic.
mr president and esteemed high representative, i welcome the implementation report of the eu global strategy. it reminds us of the relevance of having a coherent and credible foreign policy, and it outlines our common achievements in the recent years. most importantly, it provides us with an overview of these matters we still need to invest in. given the recent developments in the volatile international environment, the european union, more than ever before, needs an ambitious implementation of this strategy. in order to keep up with the changes and challenges that we are facing, this strategy must aim to establish an international order based on justice. it will help us to share our values, together with our interests across the world, in order to create a more balanced approach to multilateralism. i strongly welcome the action taken to improve the relations with our southern and eastern neighbours. we must focus on the cooperation with these regions, in particular, with the western balkans where established peace and security should not be taken for granted. stronger interaction and a clear path towards accession is vital for the peace and security in this region, as well as for europe as a whole.
mr president, madam high representative, a lot has been done, but the biggest achievement of the last three years is the building of european defence. we mainly owe it to you, so i would like to start by thanking you for the important work. we have achieved more in a few years than in decades. a proof that when there is a political will and unity, we can do a lot. we have done a series of steps towards making european defence more efficient. it is about maximising resources and better protecting our citizens, while reasserting the european union’s role in the world. the importance of the iran nuclear agreement is beyond any statement here, and we must do our utmost to preserve it. i would also like to mention and praise the prespa agreement – another remarkable achievement where the european union played a crucial role. i do hope the council will honour it and start negotiations with north macedonia and albania this year. finally, when it comes to the role of the european union in the world, we cannot avoid bringing up the importance of the multilateral order. we have to do more to preserve our past achievements and to step up our efforts for the future. the good trend has to continue, supported with adequate resources that will be allocated for this particular purpose. europe is – and must stay relevant because it is a strong and credible soft power. as the first humanitarian assistance provider, it has the means to act and protect peace, in cooperation with our allies. it is helping to create and preserve the conditions for peace and human dignity in many places of the world.
mr. chairman, ms. mogherini, the russian federation continues to be a threat not only to bulgarian national security, but also to the security of the alliance. the occupied crimea is becoming a military launching pad for aggression. the russian hybrid war is creating anti-european sentiment and provoking the unity of the european union and nato in the field of security and defence. border regions are of particular importance for european security. the european integration of the western balkans needs to be accelerated, but i sincerely hope that only nato member states will be accepted into the union, and this is an important message to the republic of serbia. enlargement policy must have a transformative power. i conclude by suggesting that the global strategy stress the link between the membership of the western balkan countries in nato and their admission to our union.
mr. chairman, i'm elected from bulgaria, a country with huge problems with air pollution and related diseases. clean air was a key element in my campaign and is a major pain point for the people who voted for us - a particularly sensitive issue for our constituents. i therefore express my support for strong measures at national, municipal and european level to ensure clean air. however, i cannot express such strong support for hasty and particularly unilateral restrictions on the movement of diesel cars, for at least two reasons. the first is that only part of the pollution in our cities is caused by road transport. perhaps more importantly, the continued use of solid fuel heating, as well as the operation of coal-fired power plants and biomass plants near populated areas. secondly, we cannot afford to punish citizens for being poor. nobody drives a comparatively old diesel car because that's what they want, but because that's all they can afford. and besides, the issue of clean air is a topic that is directly connected to the fate of coal and industrial areas, a topic that is directly connected to poverty. our measures must be geared towards serious funding for clean urban environments, clean urban transport and welfare, especially in coal-mining areas.
mr. chairman, we are all concerned about the climate crisis. i would say more than that: we are concerned about the overall environmental crisis that threatens the water, forests and food security of our continent and our planet. but we are concerned about something else - that there is too much talk and too little action in this policy. the question is, why? my answer is that no policy can succeed unless it is first of all geared to the needs of the people, that is to say, a policy which saves farmers rather than ruining them; which supports small businesses rather than bankrupting them; which ensures that europe's metal, steel and aluminium industries are preserved; a policy which develops and modernises energy and coal areas rather than protecting and depopulating them. to have such a policy, i believe we need to address exactly these young people who are protesting, and above all to be leaders in science, innovation and education - something that europe is not.
mr president, we are obviously all committed to the prevention of conflicts of interest. but how do we achieve this goal? do we really need new paperwork? do we really need endless new regulations? do we need to impede, to hamper, i would even say, often, to suffocate small businesses with new bureaucratic requirements? let alone, do we really need new bureaucratic bodies? does such an approach deliver good results? unfortunately, my answer is no, it does not. what we really need is the strong and comprehensive enforcement of the existing clause on conflict of interest and corruption. what we really need is severe and effective sanctions in cases of breaches of the existing clause. what we really need is a working european prosecutor’s office and a comprehensive european judicial system.
as in the previous debate on turkey, i would like to draw your attention once again to the need for a bolder and more organised policy by the high representative of the european union towards the government of the republic of ukraine. yes, there are problems that need to be and can be solved. but i want to draw your attention to the fact that in ukraine there are several recognized large national minority groups. they're romanian, hungarian, bulgarian (i'm not missing one). and when negotiating with the government of ukraine and with the new president zelensky, the issues of the rights of these minority groups must be clearly stated. these are minority countries in the european union. and we must encourage ukraine to join the european union as soon as possible, but preserving the rights and legitimate interests of these populations. and that's in the foundation, in the foundation of our founding treaties.
mr president, article 19 of the un declaration of human rights states that everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression. this includes the right to receive and impart information and ideas through any media, regardless of frontiers. every dictatorship and repressive regime immediately seeks to close down the freedom of the press and media, thinking foolishly that they can silence opposition. ukraine’s previous president, petro poroshenko, tried, using legal process, to silence media that did not act as his mouthpiece. this was condemned and it failed. ukraine has a new president, volodymyr zelensky, who is following the same old tired pattern. despite claiming to be different, he has used legal process to strip tv stations of their licences and is threatening those he does not like. ms mogherini, are you content to remain silent and allow this repression of freedom? or are you going to use your influence with president zelensky to protect the freedom of the press?
mr. chairman, please! peace is one of the most precious values in international relations, that's obvious. we sincerely wish the new authorities in kiev that the war that has been bleeding in donbas since 2014 will end as soon as possible. but when it comes to talking to russia, it's important to remember that any sign of a willingness to compromise is a sign of weakness for moscow, and it will be exploited. such historical experiences are not only poland's, but also ukraine's. the 17th century pereyaslav peace treaty and its consequences for ukraine are worth mentioning here. the steinmeier formula may become a permanent guarantee of impunity for vladimir putin and an expiation for his aggressive policies. it will also be a convenient pretext for france and germany to start talking about lifting eu sanctions, although there is no justification for such a move. the ukrainian citizens also see these dangers, and they are protesting against this solution in increasing numbers, calling it a direct surrender. it's worth taking those votes into account.
dear mrs. mogherini, mr. chairman, don't you think that the steinmeier formula is constantly encouraging mr. putin, encouraging him to continue his plan for ukraine? does this formula not create the conditions for a long-term blockage of any sovereign decision of the institutions in kiev? isn't that actually the formula for less ukraine in ukraine? and one more thing: corruption. in ukraine, it's mostly the work of businessmen and politicians with ties to the kremlin. it's a russian product in ukraine. in that sense, doesn't it strike you that any concession to the kremlin is seen as a success of putin's policy? and where he succeeds, you can be sure that europe loses. and it's my opinion that it's long past time for some european leaders to stop flirting with mr. putin.
mr. president, in bulgaria, there is an election of a prosecutor general with virtually unchecked powers, with a seven-year term of office without the possibility of early termination. the only candidate for this position in his program attacks the principle of separation of powers and threatens the independence of the court. the trend of pressure on the media is no less alarming. pressure, once, to present only the indictment in specific cases and thus become a party to the criminal proceedings. and second, pressure on the media to fire bulgarian journalists critical of the prosecution. pressure that led to an unprecedented event in the last hundred years: the suspension of the broadcasting of the bulgarian national public radio. such a choice would be a sign of an institutional crisis. and i am deeply concerned that this will unleash a wave of lawlessness in my homeland. a problem that is not mine, is not only bulgarian, but is pan-european.
mr president, i rise on this day, still october 9th, to commemorate what happened 30 years ago. it was on these october days that the berlin wall began to crumble. on october 7th, when some comrades in the gdr were celebrating the 40th anniversary of the founding of the socialist german democratic state, thousands of their fellow citizens were leaving via the prague embassy of the federal republic of germany for west germany. it was basically the beginning of the berlin wall shaking at its foundations. it was actually a small wave of migration of about 15,000 people. on 12 october 1989 this ep adopted the resolution i am quoting from. the ep calls on the government to start the process of democratisation and to end police repression against its own citizens. the ep remembered human rights then, and we must remember them today. it is our duty, our legacy.
mr president, i have chosen for my one minute the subject of forestry and the state of europe's forests. in the face of climate change, we're underestimating forests, which have not only an economic function, but also an environmental function. but europe's forests are not in good shape. unfortunately, we lack a coherent pan-european strategy for forests, which the member states could implement. of course, the primary responsibility for the state of the forests lies with the member states, and primary law does not actually speak of forestry. the eu should help member states to quickly address the current situation, e.g. with logging, of course disasters, motivate to reforest and generally motivate to good forest management. we need to work with member states to give clear priority to forests, because forests are our future.
mr president, we as the european parliament should be consistent in our support for the european perspective of the western balkan countries, as the accession process is a key driver for reform and stability in the region. i therefore welcome the european commission's recommendation to open pre-accession negotiations with both the republic of north macedonia and the republic of albania. in the last few years, europe's focus has shifted from integration to security, making the region a focus of conflict. this risks a struggle for the western balkans instead of the integration of the western balkans. the launch of the negotiations represents a credible impetus for the republic of north macedonia and albania, which will stop the erosion of our greatest resource, namely the european union's commitment to these countries, and will close the way to other geopolitical factors in the region. at the same time, however, the opening of negotiations should be seen as a guarantee of membership and as a driving force for accelerating reforms, strengthening the rule of law and maintaining good neighbourly relations. progress towards european union membership depends mainly on the individual (president withdraws)
madam president, i want to say to my colleagues that i support this report, despite the fact that there are undoubtedly controversial and contradictory points in it. i believe that such conflicting proposals will be the subject of serious work in this house and consequently of political clash between different visions, different groups, often different countries with their national interests. i support the report above all because it puts the main emphasis where it should be - on countries, on regions, on social groups, but also on the individuals who are most vulnerable in today's labour market situation. it highlights, without concealing, the risks facing the european economy and the european labour market. as the representative of bulgaria - the unfortunately lowest income country in the european union and with some of the most vulnerable social groups in the european union - i welcome this report and hope its recommendations will come into effect.
as a representative of a country where tourism accounts for a large proportion of gross domestic product and employment, i am naturally concerned and support all measures to support, in particular, small and medium-sized businesses, family businesses and local businesses involved in tourism. however, i believe that several aspects of the problem have been seriously underestimated, including by the commission. first of all, don't we think there's a dangerous over-concentration of market share in this case, which creates a company that's too big to fail, so-called "too big to fail"? do we not think that there is a dangerous vertical concentration of tourism services which violates the competition rules of the european union? lastly, do we not think that this is a model of tourist concentration of services, both horizontal and vertical, which not only endangers all consumers but also seriously harms small businesses, family businesses and local businesses, and is therefore doomed to failure?
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, for more than a decade, the bulgarian judiciary has been the subject of surveillance. it was to him that my countrymen placed their hopes for the establishment of law and justice. today, those hopes are dead. the report's amorphous wording and its unwilling recommendations have not produced a healing effect. the mechanism has proven ineffective, and the problems in the justice system have deepened. the new monitoring report is about to be published. i have no doubt that he will be another "gift" for the government on the eve of the local elections. over the years, the european commission has not only rendered monitoring meaningless, but has turned it into a tool for political interference and vicious support for its sofia favorites. this discredits the very idea of europe in the eyes of the bulgarian citizens. their disappointment is evidenced by the low turnout in the last european elections. in conclusion, i would like to say that the failure of the verification and cooperation mechanism, which will be presented to us as a success, cannot deceive bulgarians whose expectations of legality and justice with european cooperation have remained unfulfilled.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is madness, this is unacceptable! you will recall that at the last plenary session here in strasbourg the turkish authorities handed out turkish chocolate to ask the european parliament to resume negotiations on turkey's accession to europe. a few weeks later, they're not giving out chocolate anymore, they're giving out missiles and bombs. the league said it before and they keep saying it: no to turkey's entry into europe! no to continuing to give european taxpayers' money to turkey! we have a europe which has not been able to govern economic wars, trade wars and today we find that we have a europe which even finances the turkish war. this is unacceptable! it is unacceptable even in the memory of antonio megalizzi. a minute of silence is not enough! it is not enough to name a chamber of parliament, if then one decides to finance a war which is with isis, against precisely those who have fought terrorism. and so i really hope that all colleagues who have received this box of turkish chocolate have the courage to return this chocolate to the turkish authorities with blood-soaked hands, that i am coming there.... (unintelligible words) no to this turkey! no to this turkey! (lon. ciocca waves a box of chocolates in the chamber and at the end of the speech goes to the chair's benches and throws the box on the floor)
excuse me. would you please resume your seat. this is a house where we debate. we don’t throw things around and we are not violent. that is outrageous behaviour in a chamber. i’m sad to say, colleagues, that sort of thing is becoming far too common. this is a parliament where we debate. it is not necessary to roar and shout or throw items about. i hope you all agree with me in that ruling. i am appalled by what you just did, sir. (applause)excuse me, you had the floor. please listen. would you please listen for a moment, sir? because sometimes when you listen, you learn. it is my job to keep order in this house, and what you did was appallingly disorderly and disrespectful to the house. you can make your political points without being disorderly and abusive to other colleagues in this room. we will move on.
madam president, i have read the proposed resolutions on turkey. they're weak and rickettish. these resolutions are a sign of weakness. they contain valid findings, but unfortunately, only half measures that will lead to nothing. i propose to freeze absolutely all european investments with state participation in turkey. i'm sure this will sober up erdogan. economic interests cannot always prevail over common human values. i know that such a measure would incur some economic losses, but they are a small price to pay when it comes to saving thousands of innocent lives. i also think that if these measures are not enough, a total embargo should be imposed on turkey, not a single pin coming out of there. thank you. thank you.
madam president, the turkish invasion of syria is a heinous crime, a crime against the european union, against europe and against humanity. i believe it is time to stop talking in the european union and to take action. zero tolerance in turkey, which is not just attacking the kurds, is attacking humanity. the kurds were the ones who stood as a shield, who fought for the dismantling of isis so that europe could sleep peacefully and yet europe, at this moment, is essentially, because of its tolerance, among those who will be considered complicit in this historic and criminal wrong against humanity. turkey always comes back: the armenian genocide in 1915, the pontic greek genocide in 1918, the smyrna greek genocide in 1922, the istanbul genocide in 1955, the cyprus genocide in 1974, last year it was afrin, this year it is the kurdish genocide. we must not wait any longer. i consider myself a proud european, but i am ashamed when the turks, with european weapons, attack the kurds and we still do not take decisive action to stop this turkish invasion. (applause from the centre and the right)
madam president, the ceasefire in northern syria is very fragile and erdogan can very quickly threaten it with his impulsive threats and intimidation, also because of the disunity of the european union. the turkish attacks are a violation of international law. european leaders must take a united position on the cessation of arms sales by eu member states to turkey, including on economic sanctions, which could be a significant lever to influence ankara. we also forget that the kurdish question will not be resolved by the cessation of turkish aggression alone; on the contrary, the kurds' alignment with the assad regime will not satisfy their aspirations. the north of syria, together with the north of iraq and the south-east of turkey, where turkey frequently conducts military operations against the kurds, will unfortunately remain a ticking time bomb, and will cause new deaths, new refugees and humanitarian disasters, as well as a source of conflicts outside the region. where is our humanity, my friends? we could be really embarrassed.
madam president, i have listened very carefully to this long debate. we feel frustration, but we can't say we feel anguish, because anguish is what you feel when you're trying to survive under the bombs. we cannot say that we did not know that the united states was going to leave the area: we knew it, we were warned. we knew that turkey was going to attack, and we also knew that dangerous jihadists were going to escape and that a whole spiral of revitalization of the world of daesh and terrorism could be generated: we knew this because we were warned. we europeans have lost the opportunity, before the united states escaped, to be able to act with an international criminal court, to be able to avoid impunity, to be able to act on the european minors who are in the area: we have lost all those opportunities. and the reason is that we are a commercial giant but we are not a political giant. in a globalized world, violence, disasters and these kinds of geostrategic conflicts affect us. how they're not gonna affect us! we're still trying to regulate a migration crisis coming from these whistleblowers. now, if we do not put an end to the contradictions we have and if we do not have a security and defence policy, we will not be able to face the future.
madam chairman, since yesterday we have a new situation. putin and erdogan have achieved what they wanted. the man responsible for the syrian tragedy, bashar assad, has agreed to their agreement. the action of russia and turkey is not only anti-kurdish, it is also anti-european, because it comes in response to positions taken by us. what should worry us most is the ongoing rapprochement between ankara and moscow, between damascus and moscow. authoritarian leaders from diplomatic european flirtations do not understand. we're not the world's military leader, but we can offer ideas and solutions to problems. that means proposing a vision for solving both the kurdish national and popular question, but it does not mean supporting leftist kurdish nationalist parties, such as those operating on turkish soil. thank you, thank you!
mr president, there is much work and much work to be done to stop climate change, but it is also important to remember what has already been done and achieved. the targets set by the european union for 2020 will be met and exceeded. more ambitious targets have been set for 2030, and the european commission estimates that these targets will be met and exceeded, provided that we implement all the legislation discussed here to that end. the commission has adopted a large package of clean energy measures, an ambitious waste directive and new emission limits for new cars, including for the first time for lorries. an ambitious plastic strategy has been decided, certain single-use plastics have been banned altogether, and the circular economy has been promoted. so some really impressive decisions have already been made, but now we know that we need to step up even more and raise that 2030 emissions target to 55 percent. it is supported by an overwhelming majority in this house. the european union must take global leadership on climate policy.
madam president, commissioner, the need to combat climate change is not a matter for political debate. the overwhelming evidence before us compels us to act. we must act with ambition but also with responsibility, without making empty promises and focusing on what we can achieve, firstly by implementing the policies and measures already agreed and by using the clean technologies already available, many of which have not yet been applied. we must also have the ambition to go further, taking additional measures always on the basis of a sound impact assessment. but to go further, we need more scientific research, more innovation and more technology. only then will it be possible to reconcile ambition in the fight against climate change with strong industrial leadership on the part of europe, while preserving our way of life.
madam president, having the honour of representing parliament at the paris agreement and in marrakesh and, last year, in poland, and being a rapporteur for the renewable energy file, i welcome this discussion because things have moved up a gear. it is now, as was rightly said, a climate and ecological emergency, and young people, in particular, have pointed that out to us. i welcome president-elect ursula von der leyen’s commitment to the green new deal and, above all, to come forward with proposals in the first 100 days because it is vital that we tackle this as a matter of urgency. when we were doing the renewable energy file, we said that the targets could only be increased upwards. that’s a good thing. but, at the same time, it is very important that we do not rush headlong into something and forget about those who are going to be impacted. a just transition fund is absolutely vital in this and member states also need to be held to account on an annual basis to see how they’re progressing. that’s how we will deal with this emergency and honour the young people who are so concerned about their future.
madam president, this house is prolific in reports, resolutions, speeches, vows of commitment to combat climate change and defend the planet. the problem comes later. it comes with the carbon market that sacrifices the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions to the business done with the licenses to pollute. it comes with policies that favor unsustainable patterns of production and consumption. it comes with the deregulation of international trade, which favours export-oriented, intensive production models. it comes with agricultural policies that favour agribusiness and its unsustainable practices, while at the same time crushing small production, promoting rural abandonment, the alienation of the relationship between man and nature, of which marx spoke to us, in which they promote the concentration of the population in huge and unsustainable urban agglomerations. the problem is that the european union budget provides funds for the arms industry, but it cuts back on economic, social and territorial cohesion and fails to finance nature conservation. now, instead of repeating here some phony and inconsistent proclamations, it would be good if we started looking very seriously at each and every one of these contradictions.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have been working with my staff to record your many and meaningful messages. they have covered a wide spectrum from agriculture to industry, from energy to buildings, from citizens to our national economy. and you can say that you also wanted to put pressure on it and thereby defined your expectations, namely how the new commission - with its first draft law after 100 days and in the green deal package - should tackle the whole dimension at european level and with partners outside europe, and thus also meet the expectations of the citizens and the urgency of the matter. i think the debate is timely, because firstly the new commission will be starting soon, secondly the budgetary framework is in the middle of the consultation on the target line and can still be improved, changed: the just transition fund as an example, mainstreaming as a second example. the committee on budgets and the rapporteurs have a certain responsibility here. i shall report to mr timmermans and thank you for your detailed explanations.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, this has been a very interesting discussion. i’ve listened carefully to your interventions and suggestions. thank you so much for them. as i said at the beginning of this debate, stepping up the fight against climate change is now more urgent than ever and the eu has to show determination. we have to show leadership, we have to act as a global leader in climate action, and we as presidency are working hard so that we can achieve that position. we are also aiming at an agreement on the eu long-term carbon neutrality strategy. we hope to see positive results in the december european council. it would be a great achievement if we all could agree on eu being climate-neutral by 2050. and as soon as the new commission takes its place, and if there’s a proposal on the just transition fund, i’m optimistic that the member states would welcome such a proposal and it will be included in the upcoming seven-year budget, the mff. just transition is key and we should all approach climate in that way. by its very nature this topic requires broad, extensive and inclusive debate, and the more opportunities we have to discuss these issues together, the better we are able to shape a shared vision for the future. so as our presidency motto says, let’s work together for a sustainable europe, for a sustainable future.
in writing. the sustainable development of countries and the health of their populations also involves identifying and continuously implementing the most effective measures to combat factors that have a negative impact on the environment. without a clean planet, we cannot talk about long-term healthy development, prosperity, and that is why we need a concerted effort to increase the quality of life and the health of the planet. climate change and its effects must be contained as a matter of urgency, through concrete action by each eu member state, but also by the eu. a continuous, synergistic effort is also required to protect the environment, minimising climate change and its devastating effects. efforts should also be directed towards raising citizens' awareness of ways to protect the environment through individual action. the union has set itself the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 compared to 1990 levels, and this target can only be achieved through progress by each member state to ensure the transition to a climate neutral eu in line with the paris agreement.
in writing. the events related to climate and environmental issues, which took place in several countries around the world, demonstrate the growing importance of this issue for people and young people in particular. the protection of the environment, in all its forms, as a universal common good, unique and fundamental to life and health, as the primary place where the existence of present and future generations develops, is an objective to be pursued at all levels to prevent the balance between ecosystems, biodiversity, human well-being and living beings from being compromised. we must act now, by pushing governments and the international community to enact rules that are universally recognized as necessary to change our lifestyles, to make them more responsible and sustainable. we need a circular economy, we need to incentivize renewables, we need to regenerate our cities, we need to focus on cleanup, we need to take all those actions that are directed at reducing emissions and energy waste, and we need to make a complete transition to clean energy. building an economy and a society that makes the environment and innovation the keystone on which to build new opportunities for well-being and employment will be the best thing we can do for our planet, for ourselves and for future generations.
in writing. the european union's commitment to maintaining its leading role in the fight against climate change is a certainty. following the 2015 paris agreement, the 'zero carbon' target proposed by the future european commission opens a new and ambitious stage, which responds to citizens' concerns. the european elections in may this year have shown us all that for european citizens, climate change is a real problem and that we are responsible for solving it. at the same time, we have an equal responsibility to economic development, job protection and the social impact of the changes required to reduce carbon emissions by 50% by 2030. taking the example of the decarbonisation of road transport, mainly achieved by heavy-duty vehicles, we must commit ourselves to making the transition to low-carbon technologies and fuels without affecting the lives of the over 6 million europeans working in this industry. on the other hand, the energy transition involves major systemic changes, from technology, infrastructure and new economic models, to social norms and new consumption habits, which we must do without jeopardising the economic security of citizens. in addition, we have a duty to ensure greater economic and social protection for coal-based economic regions by creating financial instruments to enable them to make an economic transition with minimal social costs.
president of the european court of auditors. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the council, mr commissioner oettinger, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am very pleased to be here with you today, together with my esteemed colleague lazaros lazarou, rapporteur for the annual report of the european court of auditors, to launch this year's discharge procedure of the european court of auditors with the annual report for the financial year 2018. what's this afternoon about? i would like to present to you the current state of financial management in the european union. in our annual report, and in particular in our declaration of assurance, we assess whether the funds which you, as parliament, have approved for the budget for the past year have been used legally, properly and, of course, economically. we have examined the consolidated annual accounts of the european union for the financial year 2018. in our opinion, it gives a fair view of the financial position of the european union as a whole and does not contain any material misstatement. in other words, we have given a full audit opinion. secondly, we have not found any significant error rate for the revenue received by the eu budget. thirdly, we estimated the error rate in expenditure at 2.6%. this means that, in our opinion, 2,6% of the payments should not have been made at the expense of the european budget because they were not made in accordance with the applicable eu legislation. however, this overall estimate obscures an important distinction: the way in which european funds are disbursed has a major impact on the risk of error involved. for expenditure subject to complex rules and representing around half of the eu budget, namely primarily 'reimbursement-based payments' where beneficiaries have to submit applications for reimbursement of eligible costs incurred by them, such as research projects, employment-related projects, regional and rural development projects and development projects in third countries, the error rate is estimated at 4.5%. however, the risk of error is lower for 'claim-based payments', which are subject to simpler rules and where beneficiaries receive a payment simply by meeting certain conditions, such as direct payments to farmers, administrative expenditure, student grants or eu budgetary assistance to third countries. in other words, about 50% of the population of the farm we examined had no significant error rate. for this reason, for the third year in a row, we have given a limited audit opinion on expenditure, that is to say, a 'yes, but'. we are encouraged that the european commission and the member states have been able to maintain the progress made in the previous two years. for the low-risk areas, our testers were able to note positive results. at the same time, there are still concerns in the high-risk areas that need to be addressed further. as part of its own multiannual strategy, the court is gradually moving towards basing its statement of assurance on a test-based audit. this means that we will in future provide audit assurance for the commission's management declaration, which in turn is based on its own audits and, in the case of shared management, on the audits carried out at national level. we are therefore increasingly working with the commission to create the necessary conditions for progress towards test-driven testing, and i would like to take this opportunity to thank commissioner oettinger and his staff for their support and look forward to continuing this cooperation with his successor. i am convinced that paths are created by walking them, that is, by taking concrete steps - perhaps modest ones at first - to achieve this reasonably desired goal of taking advantage of work already done elsewhere and thus also avoiding double-checking. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. for a more in-depth look at our conclusions and recommendations on the individual mff headings, please refer to the relevant chapters of our annual report, which is available in all eu official languages. i had the opportunity to discuss the individual chapters in detail two weeks ago in the committee on budgetary control. since many of you were present, i will not go into detail here. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i would like to make one point very clear: we are at a crossroads: a new election period, a member state in the process of leaving the european union and the other 27 member states in the final stage of negotiations on the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework. our audit work, which i have had the pleasure of presenting to you today, shows that, despite many remaining problems, the european union has consistently maintained high standards of accountability and transparency in the use of public funds for the third year in a row. we expect the future commission and, of course, the member states to continue and build on these efforts. and we are counting on all of you, of course, to join us in making sure that this is the case. thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by thanking you, mr lehne, and mr lazarou, and the whole office, the whole court, for the valuable work and fair cooperation which i have been able to enjoy with my team over the last three years. i believe that we have made progress together and that we have the chance to make further progress - we, the commission, in operational terms, in the control of the committee on budgetary control, parliament, the council and with the expert support of the european court of auditors in its full form. we are committed to high standards of transparency, we have a comprehensive duty of accountability, and it is money of our european citizens and taxpayers that is at stake. i believe that the outgoing juncker commission will leave european finances in a very good state. first, the court has found the accounts to be correct for the 12th consecutive time. secondly, the error rate has decreased significantly in recent years. in 2018, it was about 2.6%, only five years ago we had 4.7% as the error rate to register. thirdly, the european court of auditors has now concluded for the third time in succession that the sustained improvement in the financial management of the european budget has made it possible to reach a qualified judgment, rather than a negative one, on the regularity of expenditure. and last, but not least, we have jointly improved the reporting of programme performance and thus the reporting of the value of european budgetary funds. the european budget plays an important role for millions of citizens, farmers, researchers, entrepreneurs, start-ups, entrepreneurs and students. three quarters of our expenditure is managed jointly with the member states and, as we have no infrastructure, we depend on this cooperation and the proper assessment of european law by the authorities of the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has strict rules for the sound and efficient management of funds. even if the funds are spent far away from brussels or strasbourg, we have a clear governance structure with clear responsibilities for all involved. we also know that the impact of errors that occur keyword error rate is ultimately less, as we can and do ask member states and/or recipients to repay amounts wrongly received and this is largely the case. this is why we always present two figures: the risk of error at the time of payment and the risk after corrections have been made. for the taxpayer, the last figure is the decisive one, and we estimate that it was only 0.8% last year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have collectively identified some problems in the management of cohesion programmes in some member states over the past year. and so you can say that right here, and only here, in 2018, more mistakes were made than in the previous year. we will pursue this together with member states through our consultation, through improving our regulatory framework, through simplification, simplification in the next budgetary framework and through further action. however, it can be noted that in the sample of operations drawn up by the court, the majority of errors have now been detected and financial corrections have been made. i agree with the court that complex rules contribute to errors, which is why we have simplified the rules, but also carried out training and communication measures to make it easier for beneficiaries to access european funds. the proposals for the post-2020 budgetary framework provide for further simplifications and i would ask the legislator, the house, to stick as far as possible to this simplification of our rules in the coming weeks, especially in the rules for implementing the budgetary framework, and not to take the complexity too far up again. we will also continue to work with our partners to address the causes of identified errors. i 'll get to the subject of performance: we have achieved a great deal in this area in recent years. the european budget performance framework has been ranked as the best of its kind by the oecd which has an excellent overview of budget management worldwide . we've improved and simplified our reporting. we publish detailed information on the results of each european budget programme. we have made a considerable effort to ensure that the budget is not only spent properly, but also used to finance projects that address eu-wide tasks and affect a large number of people. the commission is also committed to optimising its performance reporting in line with the respective policy priorities. the european added value plays a central role in the commission's proposal for the next budgetary framework. objectives are more clearly defined, performance is more emphasised. our aim remains to provide you, the decision-makers, and our citizens with the best possible information on the results achieved by the european budget. i would like to thank president lehne, mr lazarou and the whole team in the court, but also parliament and the committees on budgetary control. i should also like to mention the former chairwoman, dr gräßle. and, if that is not enough, i would like to say that i find the work done there very substantial and very relevant. thank you very much. we look forward to the further budget relief. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to this question.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to begin by thanking the court of auditors very, very warmly for the excellent cooperation and very, very good cooperation and also for the quality of the work that we have been able to experience from them. i would like to thank commissioner oettinger for not only taking up many, many suggestions but also helping to implement them in a very concrete and active way. i think that it is clear that the overall trend is positive, as president lehne has said. we have several questions which will give us ideas for the new mff which we have to take into account. firstly, if we find that the refund-based payments have a much higher error rate, then this is something that is simply due to the so-called gold plating, that is to say, making things more complicated in the member states than is really necessary, applying more criteria, making it more complex. i would ask the commission very sincerely to discuss simplification with the member states in the mff, because if the so-called ineligible costs are a significant part of the problem, it is often because the complexity is too great and the member states then, unfortunately, very often put it at the brussels level, although it was not the commission that invented these regulations. secondly, we know that there are member states which also have problems and difficulties with the national authorities. i'm not just about naming and shaming, because that doesn't help in the end. we will have to see how we strengthen the national authorities in the advisory function and the audit function, and also ensure through technical support that they are sustainable, that they are doing a good audit and that the application process is fair, correct, clear and transparent to applicants.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, president lene, commissioner oettinger, thank you for your presentation and for the facts you have given. i am pleased that the european court of auditors has delivered an unqualified opinion on the 2018 accounts of the european union. it is positive that there is a decrease in the error rate in the 'competitiveness' and 'natural resources' sub-sectors. however, the increase in errors in the 'convergence' heading is worrying, where the court highlights inaccuracies in the declared expenditure. the court also expresses doubts about the data provided by some of the directorates for regional policy and employment. these findings are of concern and require a reaction from the commission. the commission has also received comments from the european parliament and the council on the application of the principle of proportionality. finally, i would like to welcome the pilot initiative of the court of auditors and the commission aimed at strengthening cooperation between the court and the member states in audit processes. thank you, sir.
thank you, chairman, distinguished colleagues. the people, the young people in the western balkans are losing hope, they don't trust us, and rightly so. let me remind you of the words of the french president last autumn when he told the citizens of north macedonia, before the referendum in favour of the prespa agreement: "we are counting on you", i quote. i am asking the same president macron today whether he will take responsibility for stability in the region, whether he will take responsibility for early elections in north macedonia. the empty promises, that's all that's present in the european union today, when it comes to enlargement, are a knife in the back to all the citizens of north macedonia, albania, the western balkans. it has been 10 years since north macedonia was given the first promise by the european commission that it could become a member of the european union, and i am ashamed today that i have to apologize for these actions to all citizens in the western balkans, and it is our serious responsibility to talk about how we will decide in the future about enlargement to the region, and to apologize and start correcting our mistakes tomorrow. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. thank you for your question, although the enlargement to north macedonia and albania is not the subject of the debate this evening, and the debate and vote on this matter tomorrow is very important. as for schengen, i strongly support the inclusion of croatia, romania and bulgaria in schengen when schengen is ready for this and when croatia also fulfils all the technical and legal conditions, especially when it comes to the issue of the return of refugees and the treatment of refugees at the border between croatia and bosnia and herzegovina.
mr. president, france is not a country that makes occasional mistakes. france is a country that we assume knows what it is doing, but this decision of hers obviously serves russian interests in the balkans region, and russia, as we know, is opposed to the european and euro-atlantic integration of the western balkan countries and has been waging a hybrid war in this direction for many years. the result of mr macron's mistake is that north macedonia will hold early elections, but the european council should not wait for their result and the zagreb meeting in may, because it is possible that then mr macron will say 'let's wait for the first steps of the new macedonian government and then make a decision', and thus enter a dangerous political spiral. i'd recommend less of a backstage game of paris with moscow and belgrade. - thank you. - thank you.
mr president, it has been demonstrated in practice that the phrased concerns and the blanket sanctions of the united states and the european union against turkey not only do not stop, but on the contrary encourage its aggression in the cypriot eez and the aegean, but also in relation to the invasion of syria, since it seems, regardless of statements, to have the green light from the united states, the european union and nato. the protection of the cypriot eez against the interests of the large american, french and italian energy groups is also unfounded. moreover, all of them consider turkey as their strategic partner and are in a constant bargaining and competition that feeds the aggressiveness of the turkish bourgeoisie and its quest to create a done deal in the division of cyprus, control of the cypriot eez, the aegean and the wider region. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it has been a key player in the process of european integration. no greek involvement! all bases are closed! the dangerous agreements signed by both the new democracy and syriza governments must be annulled!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is regrettable that we have to criticize turkey's activities in breach of international law for two consecutive weeks in the plenary. three weeks ago in strasbourg we were talking about the invasion of northern syria, now we are talking about the illegal drilling in the exclusive economic zone of cyprus. we have now, after all, created a legal framework for restrictive measures against specific individuals and companies. but that list is still empty, as far as i know, after the decision has been taken. i would therefore ask the high representative: have we been told about the companies and the people in charge of these companies or the heads of the authorities who have authorized this? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. is there something in the pipeline? do we have any specific ideas on who we can put on this list?
mr president, i am extremely disappointed by the total lack of adequate response from the european union in its relations with turkey. we are witnessing a growing sense of impunity for erdogan in his dealings with europe, and this is the result of decades of europe's impotent policy towards turkey. the european union has let erdogan believe that economic interests are more important than our european values. we have an authoritarian, islamist, neo-ottoman regime on our border that does not respect the rules of the european union. i'm going to say this a second time, because i said it last time in relation to the attacks on the kurds in northern syria. concrete measures must be taken urgently a complete halt to financial flows to turkey from the european union, including the suspension of all investments with state participation of european countries. please don't, we're getting ridiculous here.
madam chairman, today we're discussing horrific crimes against journalists. but do we discuss why these crimes are committed? we talk about impunity, but do we talk about what the roots are, what the path is that we take to get to that impunity? and this is, firstly, the censorship of the media, and secondly, the self-censorship of media owners who are willing to even fire their best journalists to protect themselves from persecution by the authorities and the mafia. the pressure of the government itself on the free media, the bribery of the government, the media, including the bribery of the media with european union money, the concentration and the monopolies in the media sphere - these are the foundations of impunity, this is why the criminals are so bold in their attacks on the media. but all of this -- and censorship, and self-censorship, and pressure, and bribery, and monopolies, are the real crimes against media freedom and against the rights of citizens. these are crimes that don't happen once, twice, three times a decade in individual countries. it happens every day in my country and in many other eu member states.
mr president, we are all concerned and we are all committed to an ambitious policy: to a ‘new green deal’. but what exactly is this policy? what exactly does ‘new green deal’ mean? using this term we must go back in history and we must recall the real significance of the term. was it a list of prohibitions? was it a list of limitations? was it a list of taxes affecting those who already suffer the most? no. it was a large- scale public and private investment programme aiming at ambitious development, innovation, new infrastructure, new businesses, new models of growth, new jobs. and our new green deal in europe shall be a deal for growth and jobs, for new opportunities, for the regions in transition, for new hope for those affected, for a new clean technology, for science, for innovation, for investment in precisely the regions most dependent on fossils and suffering most from the present crisis.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism, and i would like to thank the commission for its work in this area. yet the treaty was pushed through, including a huge mistake that allowed chicken giant mhp to ship chicken to europe without restriction. can you say whether there was a deliberate error in the way this mistake was made, or does the commission dare to admit that it made a huge mistake in the negotiations? ukraine refuses to remove this mistake from the treaty unless the eu accepts a mega quota of 50 000 tonnes of additional chicken. what a disgrace! the european commission has already indicated months ago that the mhp company does not comply with our environmental and animal welfare rules. then how can you allow this? you are aware that this is at the expense of european farmers, the environment and the inhabitants of these giant stables. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
commissioner, over the last three years the european chicken market has been subject to unfair competition from ukraine through unregulated imports of products. the proposed measure to cap duty-free imports for the product line concerned is a logical step. the commission notes that the increase in the number of sampled union producers is due to the increase in the number of union producers. this approach does not guarantee the interests of european producers. i call on the european commission to start work on assessing the impact of the association agreement on european agriculture. in my country, beekeepers are feeling the pressure of ukrainian honey and they are losing their livelihood. oilseed growers are also expressing concern. we must not allow european agricultural producers to become victims of the union's general policy, the dogmas of free trade or political considerations.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the eastern partnership has obviously been successful. especially if we compare it to the union of the mediterranean, we can say that the success is huge. but we shouldn't turn a blind eye to the problems. in some countries, we're even seeing a decline. one such country is georgia, which seemed to be on a very good track. we have seen this in recent months: protests that have dragged on, which are increasingly being dealt with harshly by the authorities, the appointment of giorgio gacharia as prime minister, who until recently was a citizen of the russian federation, etc. it is also unclear whether the democratic success and improvement of armenia's democratic standards are the result of this programme. so it seems we should rethink our strategy. i think that success depends on the credibility and consistency of the union's foreign policy, but also on how we apply our own standards. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i'll give you a short answer, my friend. no, i don't think that's what it is. and that's what reform of this policy should be about, to be consistent and to do more consistently for the democratic forces in these countries.
madam president, i just want to thank the high representative for our collaboration over the last five years and to say that we won some, and maybe not so much others, but i really want to wish you all the best for your future endeavours. we have a growing number of concerns in our neighbourhood. i think the signals coming from chișinău send a worrying message of regression away from reforms for democracy and the rule of law. some would say that the commission has been naive by helping broker a deal here, which led to a doomed coalition with president dodon who then enabled a power grab. meanwhile, we have already heard in georgia that people are calling for a more democratic and fair electoral system and they are facing riot police who are using rubber bullets and tear gas against them. and when we look at baku, the opposition leader who was recently arrested during a rally says he was savagely tortured in police custody. so what is happening in these countries is a growing trend in the world: authoritarians trying to get a stranglehold on fragile democracy. maybe our policy of softly-softly in the region is not delivering the results we wanted. i wondered what advice the high representative would have for her successor regarding how they should look at a new strategy. (the speaker declined to answer a blue-card question from mr băsescu)
the european union has for many years developed particularly good relations with its immediate neighbours. the importance of this approach and the potential it holds for change have been seen during the migration crisis. better relations with neighbours and stronger political and trade relations with them would guarantee greater resilience to such crises. there are a number of countries in our east with which we are developing good relations in the eastern partnership, but they have a long way to go before they become stable partners. some of these countries are still at war, and some are in the middle of a transition that is extremely painful. all of these countries are extremely important to us in terms of positioning ourselves with russia. it must be in europe's interest that they develop into fully functioning democracies with a well-developed rule of law and free markets. the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova on the participation of the republic of moldova in the union programme for the development of the baltic sea region.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. madam president, i certainly think we should strengthen our position, but in cooperation with all member states. so not only does brussels decide what it will be, but all the member states can decide.
- what? the chair, madam high representative, the european union's policy towards its eastern neighbours is at one time declared as a high priority policy, but on the other hand it is greatly underestimated and neglected because of the problem areas in individual countries, in relations between them or in relations with the european union. and it seems that we take into account more the huge reserves of energy resources and the possibilities of transporting them to european markets than the serious geostrategic situation of the region. at the same time, this region is the arena of the confrontation of two competing concepts: that of european integration and that of eurasian cooperation. after ten years of eastern partnership, i think we need to do two things. firstly, a frank review of what has been achieved so far, and secondly, a greater commitment by the european union to identify the next priorities for developing cooperation in the region. because otherwise we risk pushing the countries into another political orbit and facilitating the realization of interests alien to the community.
mr president, today the middle east is in the spotlight, but in reality we have never stopped thinking about that region in recent years. unfortunately, it continues to be a cradle of poverty, suffering, wars and ethno—religious conflicts – without a clear direction for development and hope for millions of citizens, but spreading terrorism and extremism that has led to hundreds of thousands of innocent victims, with deadly demonstrations and violence in iraq, iran, lebanon and a refusal of politicians to accept reality and give hope for the future. these are not movie scenes but a painful reality. not by coincidence, one iraqi newspaper asked the question: if you kill us all, whom do you rule over? europe cannot stay silent. i urge the authorities of these countries to stop the violence against peaceful protesters immediately, and to open the door to dialogue. parliamentarians must act by reflecting the public interest for a new and different way of conducting politics, restoring hope and bringing a brighter future.
mr president, in the previous debate i said israel is our main regional strategic partner. now i have to say that, particularly, iran is our main regional strategic rival, the main anti-western force there. what we have seen over many years has been an endless attempt by iran to achieve regional hegemony. the iranian fundamentalist theocracy has been spreading its influence over iraq, syria and, of course, lebanon, undermining constantly their internal coherence, and it is time to stop this. it’s time to change our appeasement policy vis-à-vis iran. it is time to support the exiled opposition. if we want to pursue our own eu interests in the region, we are obliged to do that. to curb iran, i believe, is the key to stability in the region.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the high representative mogherini! according to testimony from international organizations, iranian forces use excessive force against those protesting against the injustices in the country. hundreds of protesters have been killed, thousands injured or imprisoned. it is unacceptable that people who are protesting for their social and economic rights are killed, injured, imprisoned or brutalized by the regime. in addition, the shutdown of the internet is deeply offensive and a violation of human rights. it is also deeply unsympathetic to hear about the president tweeting while people's lives are being cut short because of not having access to what we find so natural. we need to get the internet back online immediately. i, like many of my colleagues, condemn what is happening in iran and want to see resolute action and clarity from the eu. i would like to take this opportunity to thank you, federica mogherini, for your important work over these years. i've been following you and i've seen a lot of your work and i think it's admirable. i want to see you now clearly make a final mark against iran to help the people who are now suffering.
mr president, madam high representative, we are here today to discuss the situation in the middle east and especially the serious protests that have taken place, for different reasons, in several countries: in lebanon, in iraq and in iran. we want to explain some common patterns about what's happening in the middle east today. a huge social discontent because of the lack of opportunities, access to public services, access to economic growth that reaches the whole population, unfortunately, conflicts that in recent years have suffered the populations of the middle east, a regional polarization. and not only that, but institutions that are not very inclusive for, in addition, normally multiethnic countries. what we are asking for - and what the european union has also been trying to do in recent years - is: one, to support the international community's efforts to stabilize the area; the nuclear agreement with iran is one example; two, to ask iraq to hold accountable those who have been suppressing the protests and causing deaths in the streets; and three, in the case of lebanon, please support a country that is hosting many refugees, and that is having very serious financial and economic problems.
madam president, i have to ask you. mrs mogherini, thank you very much for your work, your effort and your dedication over these years. the protests that are going on in the region are protests in which citizens are demanding more freedom, more democracy, more social rights. in iran these revolts have been suppressed with enormous harshness, with the use of firearms against the civilian population. amnesty international tells us that there are tens, hundreds of dead, four thousand wounded, ten thousand detained, although the country has been shut down, a digital shutdown. once again, the authorities have put pressure on women as well. they're putting a red circle on them saying they're responsible and agitators for these riots. we therefore call on the commission and the international community to condemn these events in the strongest possible terms, to call on the iranian authorities to stop the repression and to make a clear appeal for political and democratic dialogue.
madam president, i express my concern at the tensions arising from the situation in the middle east region. as a bulgarian - one of the first border states of the european union on the path of refugee flows - i would like to draw the attention of the european parliament to the fact that the escalation of tensions creates a real threat of a new wave of refugees coming to europe. i see danger in the turkish state's intention to resettle over 2 million arab refugees in the kurdish areas of northern syria, where the turkish army is currently conducting an operation. i believe that such settlement should be carried out only by the free will of the refugees. it should not be at the expense of the indigenous kurdish population. a change in the ethnic map of the region, especially in the face of the uncertain peace in syria, poses a great risk of a new and long-lasting wave of refugees, this time from kurdish refugees to the eu member states. i therefore call on the european parliament to propose an international monitoring mechanism for transparency and control of the process.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i do not think there should be any special legislation for environmental activists, in the sense that all countries in the european union have legislation that protects all citizens. i don't understand who we're supposed to protect the so-called defenders from. those who cry hysterically for protection are not protecting nature. in bulgaria, they're called "poison greens". these are ngos that not only sabotage projects for billions of european union, not only engage in eco-racketing, but also abuse european funds. this has been revealed in many investigative journalism. they've made the word "ecology" a dirty word. i'm surprised that the green parties even support such strange organizations that only harm their cause. thanks to these ngos, the greens got exactly zero percent in the last election in bulgaria. the green colleagues must purge their ranks of these false defenders of nature, because these compromised ngos do not need protection, but a court.
madam president, 30 years ago, on december 15th, the romanian revolution began in maria square. hungarians, romanians, germans, serbs, reformed christians, catholics, baptists, orthodox christians, and others joined forces to protest against the unjust eviction of the priest from temsvár, hungary. let's not forget that the people stood in front of the tanks because they no longer wanted to tolerate the terror, the humiliation, the dreaded securitate, the orwellian methods of the communist secret service. together with the hungarian reformed clergyman's diocese, he initially protested against ceaușescu's crazy village demolition plan. they risked their lives for their national and religious community, their families, to fight for freedom. this revolution and the freedom it has brought is equally precious to romanians and hungarians. we must bow our heads before lászló kapitał and the courage of every single person who dares to resist. the revolution that began in timişoara and shook the whole of romania as one overthrew communism and brought freedom to romania. although the crimes against humanity committed during the revolution remained unpunished, in an intolerable manner, until today. in the romanian revolution, we remember the more than 1200 victims murdered by the communist regime. this revolution, the romanian revolution, is one of those moments in history when the warring peoples of europe could fight together for freedom and could rejoice together in the freedom they had won. this freedom is part of our common european identity. the spirit of the temesvar revolution, the spirit of the romanian revolution, is a common european value. let us honor and cherish his memory. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
a question asked by raising a blue card. i take the floor on the occasion of the speech just to say thank you and to say that it is indeed a memorial and a tribute to the memory of the dead that we are celebrating today. at the same time, i would like to remind you as a member of the european parliament from bulgaria that two days earlier, on 14 december 1989, the citizens of sofia had blocked the bulgarian parliament with a request to abolish article 1 of the constitution on the leadership role of the communist party. bulgaria has fled... (the president cut off the speaker)
dear colleague, i’m sorry but if it is a blue card then it must be a question. i do not hear your question. if you have a question for ms gál, please refer to her now otherwise we will continue with other speakers. do you have a question for ms gál?
a question asked by raising a blue card. my question is, are you convinced that even today, when there are dictatorial regimes, it is necessary to work in such a way, to make sure that there are no bloody revolutions to overthrow them? the european union must find other instruments to suppress and remove dictatorial regimes, which are not so far from our world.
mr. chairman, the question before us is can there be a just transition where there is no justice? today, the bulgarian city of pernik is without water, 130,000 people are waiting for christmas with several hours of unfit water a day, over half a billion was spent on the dams in bulgaria, and it turned out that drinking water, which is the right of every european citizen, is being used uncontrollably for industrial needs. this is a severe example of political corruption, this is actually the price of political corruption. and just a few days ago, the chief prosecutor, who in his seven-year tenure has not been charged with corruption in high places, was elected chairman of the anti-corruption commission in bulgaria, and his former deputy was elected chief prosecutor. the european union is preparing to invest hundreds of billions in new environmental projects. the question is can the european commission and the european public prosecutor's office ensure that they are spent fairly?
mr president, i find it astonishing that we have to have this debate. investigative journalist, blogger and mother of three, daphne caruana galicia, was cowardly murdered simply for doing her job. maybe because she was doing her job too well. we now know that corruption and organised crime in malta are very closely interwoven with the highest political circles. and malta is part of europe, so what affects malta affects the rest of europe. i think you will all agree with me when i say that europe has a right to have honest politicians and journalists who can do their work independently without being intimidated or threatened with death. europe needs an independent judiciary. i therefore urge you to react swiftly and vigorously and to open the dialogue with malta today rather than tomorrow.
madam president, following the arrest of a close associate of prime minister muscat and the revelations of the involvement of officials in the murder of journalist daphne caruana galizia, citizens are insisting on the resignation of the government and the prime minister. the european parliament's colleagues who visited malta expressed their deep concern about the developments, and european leaders are called upon to take a stand here and now. despite the escalating reactions and the apparent disharmony between government and society, prime minister muscat refuses to resign now. why doesn't he? are those who feel that he directs political interference in the work of justice wrong? ladies and gentlemen, when government officials are accused of covering up heinous crimes, the mob-like execution of a female activist journalist and widespread corruption, fundamental rights have been dealt a crucial blow. the refusal of prime minister muscat to resign, interpreted as an attempt to obstruct the smooth functioning of the institutions, is a major issue and concerns us all. the solidarity we owe to each member state is now more necessary than ever, because the rule of law, which is being shaken daily in malta today, is the cornerstone of our values for the european union. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
madam president, as a former investigative journalist, i cannot explain how much this discussion means to me, and i won’t try to hide my emotions. what happened in malta is a huge tragedy and we need to ensure that justice will be served and daphne galizia won’t be forgotten. but, at the same time, we need to realise that many journalists in europe are threatened and intimidated by people in power. in bulgaria, for example, the index of media freedom is the lowest in the eu. media pluralism is almost absent. corruption at all levels is spreading. i think it’s time to stop playing political games and start acting. we cannot pretend that what happened in malta is an isolated national problem. there are similar symptoms in many member states. we need to go much further than just condemning the situation in a resolution. we need a european mechanism that will allow us to identify the shortcomings in the system before we witness the next tragedy. i urge the commission not to hide behind soft measures. we need comprehensive solutions and concrete proposals, and we need them now.
madam president, the biggest problem with corruption and conflicts of interest is that they are compromising any and all other european policies and that they are endangering their tangible results. the problem is that corruption and conflicts of interest with european funds are deeply compromising the trust of people in the european institutions. let’s take the biggest, most important example in today’s european politics: the green deal and just transition. we’ve lived through transitions in eastern europe, and we know that no transition is fair if there is no strong rule of law, no strong justice and no strong prosecution. so the answer for the whole of europe should be strong european prosecutors, strong european rules and strong european institutions – or we will have no green deal and no just transition.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, i am very pleased that we are completing one of the great remnants of the last electoral period with this item and this debate. the commission's initiative does not sufficiently address the main causes of the decline in pollinators and as such, i am sorry, commissioner, it should have been rejected and criticised long ago. instead of member states reducing the use of pesticides in their fields, we are bombarded daily with new and new permits and applications for permits for more and more substances that are destroying our bees and pollinators. given that the current activity is not going anywhere and that this seems to be directly due to the inadequate legislation and the current agricultural policy setting, the new one needs to respond to the need to better protect these vital organisms. how far are we able to catch up, colleagues? on the one hand, we hear constant excuses for why we can't limit the chemicals in the fields, and on the other hand, the declines in biodiversity are terrible. it's about recognizing that there's no substitute for pollinators, and it's about taking a little bit of a leap. i hope that this resolution will help to improve the situation, but we are waiting for you, dear commission, to finally take concrete action.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all saying this: bees and pollinators play a very important role in plant reproduction, in maintaining biodiversity, in our agriculture in general. yet, despite the fact that european crops depend on pollination, we are not doing enough to protect them and we are allowing indiscriminate use of pesticides, which are one of the main threats to bees and other pollinators. the cap, it was recalled, has a huge responsibility in protecting pollinators and should absolutely commit itself to drastically reducing the use of pesticides, promoting crop rotation and abandoning intensive agricultural practices. with this resolution we call on the member states to finally introduce binding targets for the reduction of pesticides. and i would add that it seems to me important today, absolutely necessary, to invest more in research funds, to invest in research for pollinators and to ensure that farmers are properly trained on how to promote and protect biodiversity and the pollinators themselves. i hope that the european commission will follow up the european green deal with a concrete commitment to sustainable agriculture without pesticides, without being misled by those who still want to defend intensive agriculture and no longer sustainable.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. bees are our favorite insects. not only are they children's favourites on tv shows, but they are also the key to a functioning ecosystem. three quarters of european food production is dependent on pollination. honey bees, along with some 600 species of wild bees and other pollinating insects, are therefore vital to our food security. the commission is therefore once again called upon to present an effective, comprehensive and long-term strategy to improve bee health. this should include, in particular, incentives for more sustainable agriculture. this applies in particular to the use of plant protection products. incidentally, mr häusling, this also applies to the use of plant protection products in organic farming. objectives or prohibitions for the sake of the objective are not helpful at this point. i therefore welcome the impact assessment which the commission intends to carry out before proposing a specific figure for reduction. this is the position which i believe parliament should take. policies without impact assessment are contrary to the principle of better regulation. so i'm counting on your support tomorrow.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? a sustainable society is very well measured by how well it protects its children and protects its bees. we therefore welcome the commission's response to the european parliament and the council's call for an initiative on pollinators. vibrant bees and pollinators are vital to us humans, to our food production and to our ecosystems. we know that these little animals play the most crucial role on our planet. it's actually quite simple: without pollinators, no food. three-quarters of what is produced and put on our plates depends on viable pollinators. taste it, really, and feel it! three fourths! the efforts of bees are enormous, and we must make sure that we protect them. we are going to do everything we can: it is time to start the transition to a toxic free society, and that is where it is important to be clear. much of the damage to our ecosystems is caused by the pesticides we use. the widespread use of pesticides is not sustainable. we need to recalibrate it so it's both sustainable and non-toxic. we actually have rules in europe - as you know, commissioner - to counteract this development. but they're not being followed. i am thinking, for example, of the directive on the sustainable use of pesticides. we must ensure that member states comply with this directive. i also think that we should - as we want from our side in the s&d group - get a mandatory target to reduce, and to get a percentage of how much we want to reduce, the use of pesticides. another major problem is neonicotinoids, and there too many member states are breaking existing policies and legislation, and i would urge the commission to take a hard line.
i am committed to minimizing the emission of pesticides. much has been done in this area in recent decades, but the vast majority of farmers in the netherlands want to go further. there is even a sectoral plan to eliminate all plant protection product emissions by 2030. however, this will only have a chance of success if farmers are offered a good alternative for the protection of their crops. whether intensive or extensive, organic or conventional farming; every farmer wants to protect his crops, and thus his income. failure to harvest is tantamount to food waste and we simply cannot tolerate it any longer. i therefore believe that it is the responsibility of politicians to provide farmers with an alternative. for example, in the past, the use of plant protection products has been encouraged by public policy. we need to encourage entrepreneurship among farmers and invest in integrated crop protection, low-risk products and new fracking techniques to boost crop defence mechanisms. we also have a responsibility as a society to make this transition. many young farmers in the netherlands want to become more sustainable, but cannot recoup the additional costs of doing so.
mr president, madam minister, madam commissioner, i thank you. true, the pollen-bearing insects are in a very dire situation. over 75 percent of insects have disappeared in germany in 30 years, and 40 percent of insects worldwide are in decline: there is a real urgency. so the commission's initiative is a very good thing, but it does not go far enough. and the parliamentarians wanted to amend it so that there are at least two measures which, in my opinion, are very important on the reduction of pesticides. first, evaluation: it is imperative that the full 2013 efsa guidelines on pesticide evaluation, on pollinators, and in particular on acute and chronic effects, be adopted. it affects both adults and larvae. and then we really have to ban derogations. in france, in 2016, there were 58 exemptions, including for neonicotinoids while it is prohibited , so the production, sale and use of which is still allowed. we must ban exceptions. and there's an urgency, we really need to get effective and tangible results because if pollinators disappear, a large part of the food chain will collapse.
mr. chairman, i'm speaking as a normal person, not as a politician, because i'm elected by the citizen's quota and i want to tell you that it's a kind of selfishness for me to like bees and beekeeping, just because i don't eat anything sweet except honey. but the question here is not whether there will be honey, but whether humanity will survive, and i think this is something extremely important, and we should not adopt such weak and pathetic resolutions, but we should solve the problems radically. i can't have someone constantly talking me into pesticides, because there are enough pesticides that are not harmful to bees. we simply have to take a reasonable position, and i think that the position of the committee on the environment, and of my friend and colleague, pietro fiocchi, is a very normal and reasonable one. we just have to be normal. and please, stop being mps and politicians, just be reasonable people! it's in the best interest of your children and your grandchildren.
mr president, in recent years the public's attention, and our attention here in the european parliament, has been drawn to the plight of the bee population, which has suffered enormous losses in the european union and worldwide. there is a much bigger problem behind this phenomenon, and a phenomenon that my slovak colleagues have already mentioned, and i am very pleased that we in the slovak republic are interested in addressing this issue, and it is also a dramatic decline in the diversity of all european pollinators, including bees. many pollinator species are extinct or threatened with extinction. it is estimated that in the european union, around 84% of crop species and 78% of wildflower species depend at least in part on pollination. up to almost eur 15 billion of the european union's annual agricultural production is directly attributed to pollinating insects. i would therefore like to take this opportunity in this debate to call again for the fight to protect bees and other pollinators in the european union. this is an existential battle and we cannot afford to lose it, but we must not underestimate it either, which is why we must continue to expand the ban on pesticides and insecticides that kill or significantly harm pollinators in the european union.
mr president, pollinators are fundamental to the health of the environment and therefore they are fundamental to our health. they are endangered and in some countries of the european union the bee population has been reduced in recent years by more than 70%. so, of course, we have to act. we welcome the commission's initiative, but we ask for more ambition. the resolution calls on the member states to take concrete measures to protect the pollinator population in their own agriculture. this resolution clearly calls for the full application of the guidelines on bees adopted by the european food safety authority, which is the most scientific, the most advanced knowledge we have at the moment. and this resolution also calls for the next revision of the directive on the sustainable use of pesticides to make clear progress on the establishment of common indicators and binding targets for the reduction of pesticides, following a prior assessment.
mr president, the decline in pollinators is truly dramatic, and i think we can all agree on that. the health of pollinators is essential for agriculture in the european union, as 84% of crop species and 76% of european food production depend in some way on insect pollination, as mrs beňová has already said. the loss of pollinators has a major impact on the quality and, of course, the quantity of agricultural yields and on the yields themselves. we must change our common agricultural policy, which must take account of the protection of agricultural areas of high natural value, the limitation of pesticides, which is absolutely crucial, and also of neonicotinoids, the use of mineral fertilisers and, above all, the creation of incentives for multiculture and crop rotation. unfortunately, it is these vast monoculture fields under the management of large companies, as we know from the czech republic, for example, that are contributing significantly to the decline of pollinators. i would appeal to the commission to take this resolution seriously and i would like to congratulate mrs mcguinness on her very good proposal.
mr president, while a step in the right direction, the european commission's initiative cannot be considered a serious commitment to tackle the dramatic decline in wild and domestic pollinators. the european commission needs to think beyond the business horizon, which expects quick liquidity and will not abandon pesticides on its own. it takes willpower. in the last two years, in my country, bulgaria, there have been dozens of cases of bee poisoning. many beekeepers have lost their bees and their livelihoods, mostly due to the spraying of harmful herbicides and pesticides. and this is just the bill for the domestic bees that we have been monitoring. what effect it has on all the other pollinators, we can only guess. we don't yet know what the impact of 5g technology will be, but scientists warn that it will have an effect on pollinators. without an effective and real financial and political commitment from the european commission to beekeepers and scientists, i fear that the fate of this initiative will be very similar to the european food safety authority's 2013 guidelines for bees. six years later, we're still a lot closer to a launch than to some positive outcome.
madam president, i’d like to welcome the high representative back, and it’s good to him here in the chamber in his new role. we are facing one of the biggest human rights crisis on the planet. a million uyghurs are detained in high-security prison camps, subjected to and forced into political indoctrination and torture. those not in the camps are subject to constant surveillance. this is not counter-terrorism. these are human rights violations on a scale we have not seen in decades. public statements are no longer enough. we seriously need to review our relationship with china, including trade, and undertake an investigation into european companies operating in xinjiang. high representative, you and president von der leyen have spoken about being a geopolitical commission. here’s your moment. will the eu remain silent or take serious action against china? furthermore, what is the strategy to ensure that we are prepared to counter the growing human rights threats posed by china’s advances in ai and facial recognition technology, with no transparency in how the data is being used?
madam president, china’s global economic power is built on the suppression and suffering of its own people. a few months ago, we discussed forced organ harvesting in china. today we voice our dismay towards the shameful system of so—called re—education camps. these camps are not limited to the forced cultural assimilation of uyghurs. they are also running a massive programme of so—called job training and as a result provide a cheap workforce for chinese factories, which are part of the global production chain. china thus puts its economic growth over the political freedoms of its citizens and chooses assimilation instead of embracing its cultural and religious diversity. i call upon you to work together to make the european global magnitsky act a part of reality. this is the way not only to put persons violating fundamental human rights on this list, but also it will prevent other countries and violators from committing similar crimes.
madam chairman, china is imposing a regime in xinjiang that is reverting to stalinism, except that it now has very advanced technology to monitor its population and its prisoners. what can we do here in the european parliament? today, we have sent a clear signal by awarding ilham tochtim that we will not give up on demanding his release as well as the release of thousands of other prisoners. we also draw attention to the imprisoned former rector, tyip tashpolat, who is still facing the death penalty, even at this time. today, ilham tochti's daughter told us that she is still worried about her relatives just because she is here in the european parliament talking about the situation in china. who's responsible? the chinese government is responsible for the intimidation and imprisonment, the cultural genocide in xinjiang province. that's why i support the targeted sanctions bill. mr. high representative, i welcome you to your new position and, in addition, i draw your attention to our call for a new strategy towards china, which should be guided by real progress on human rights. i wish you the best of luck and look forward to working with you.
madam president, i would like to express my serious concern to high representative borrell about the human rights violations and abuses, including gross violations by the people’s republic of china’s mass surveillance and internment of over one million uyghurs, kazakhs and other ethnic minorities in china in the xinjiang/uyghur autonomous region. during the totalitarian period, my country, bulgaria, also went through a difficult stage relating to limiting the rights of ethnic minorities. we went through difficult years of confrontation into our nation. now, bulgaria is a positive example of protecting ethnic and religious minorities. i express my hope that the people’s republic of china, a country with ancient traditions and culture, a country with great potential, will find a way to protect and to ensure the human rights of all ethnic minorities in its territory and will allow european journalists and observers to have access to xinjiang autonomous region.
