the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, madam prime minister, welcome to the european parliament. the romanian presidency will be called upon to manage the deep economic crisis and its tragic consequences, the widening of inequalities, the continuing rise in unemployment, especially among young people, and the impoverishment of a large part of the world without any hope. the statistics for 2017 were recently published. one in seven pensioners is on the poverty line, with a rising trend. the european union is a great example of a great europe. the european union and your presidency cannot therefore expect the people to trust them in the run-up to the european elections unless they first stop their obsession with promoting destructive neoliberal policies, support for the stability pact, deepening economic and fiscal union and the logic of austerity budgets. the gue/ngl calls on you, madam prime minister, to listen to the concerns of the people and to promote the positions of the progressive forces in this parliament on the need to strengthen social policy. the social misery and the breakdown of industrial relations which has become the norm require that we invest directly in a social pillar which has real content in the light of the needs of society. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one. these are the objectives to be set in the multiannual financial framework. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. it is equally important to show practical solidarity with the member states in order to respond to the crisis in a humanitarian way, and not to reinforce the logic of a fortress europe. finally, instead of giving turkey a lot of money and putting the upgrading of the customs union on the agenda, pressure must be put on turkey to stop its piratical actions against the sovereignty of member states, such as greece and cyprus in the aegean and the eastern mediterranean.
madam president, i think that parliament here has given the house of commons a direction for re-examination and i think i can say something in general. i believe that the result yesterday was not just a defeat for the british government. it was a defeat, in my view, of the grandiosity of political power over time, and of course of british grandiosity over time. secondly, we must refer today to a name from which we are here today and from which the whole of the european union and britain are in this situation, and that is the name of mr david cameron. why do i say that? not to mock, but to say that great leaders in critical times don't play games. we're not playing cards, we're not gamblers. thirdly, referenda must be done with a pinch of salt, especially when it is the people of today who are deciding how people will live here a century from now. i don't need the referendums.
the european union is a union of principles and values and must be non-negotiable and uncompromising in the application of fundamental human rights, not only for its member states but also for the countries which wish to join the european union. we cannot accept and cannot imagine that countries which wish to join the european union and which receive pre-accession aid, that is to say, are rewarded every year, like turkey, willfully violate the rule of law, the principles and values of the european union, international laws and conventions, violate any human rights and are rewarded by the european union by offering them funding, programmes and pre-accession aid. if european citizens are asked whether they want countries like turkey and albania, which violate the human rights of the greek minority in the northern hemisphere, whether they want to finance these countries which violate principles and values, the answer of european citizens will be 'no'. finally, the european union must send a message that it is incompatible with them and that measures and sanctions must be imposed to make sense of all that we are discussing today.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, on behalf of the european united left and the northern green left, i welcome you to the european parliament. we are discussing the future of the union again today. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a party to the conflict, but must be able to take part in the peace process, and the peace process must be able to be a part of the peace process. how much more forcefully do the peoples of the union need to say that we need to break with neoliberal austerity policies, break with policies that harm the environment, break with welfare state policies? just last week, tens of thousands of students and workers poured into the streets of brussels to change the course of climate policy. in france and elsewhere, workers are expressing their anger and indignation at policies that impoverish them. even in finland, which has been an example of a state of social solidarity, society is witnessing a frozen scandal that was the result of privatization and deregulation in the health sector: under-service in nursing homes due to privatization, unsuitable medicines for the elderly, increased profits for care companies. two years ago, president juncker was forced to admit that the european union was losing its social character and was in danger of becoming the 'wild west' of social dumping. but he did not admit what policies had led to this: policies that produce youth unemployment, poverty, regional and social inequalities, while at the same time preparing the ground for the rise of the far right, racism and xenophobia. those who do not recognize the cause will obviously continue on the same prescriptions and the same path. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what europe needs today is social justice and social solidarity. we need to redistribute the wealth produced fairly for social justice not for the banks and the multinationals. it needs another path of development, one that creates permanent decent jobs and full labour rights; that defends the public character of each country's strategic sectors and services; that strengthens social protection for the weak and not hand out vouchers without any binding force, such as the notorious european social pillar, or that gives a lump sum to the defence fund that is deducted from social, education and health spending. how can the citizens of the union not wonder why there is 38.5 billion euros for the new defence fund while the old people's homes in finland are being closed? the union needs a bold policy to tackle climate change. today, industry is shaping climate policies according to its own needs. but the people are demanding real solutions. they require political decisions to put a stop to the unchecked and unrealistic actions of multinational companies and binding targets for environmental protection and climate change - even more ambitious than the paris agreement. finally, europe needs a policy on asylum and migration based on international law, on humanitarian solidarity towards refugees and on solidarity between member states. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the integration of refugees into the eu. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today.
madam president, we are discussing the syrian issue for the eighth year in a row and the eighth time, and i do not know whether the word 'disappointment' can describe what a member of the european parliament feels after eight years of debate. but if the word "despair" does not reflect what we feel, i do not know what word can reflect what the syrians themselves feel. half a million dead; perhaps, in proportion, more than any european state had during world war ii. and if the european union, mr hahn, may not have leverage over russia or the united states, it has leverage over turkey, which is preparing a second or even a third invasion of syria, and i do not know what new bloodshed that invasion may bring. the european parliament and the european union are giving you the means to protect the kurdish population, a population that has fought against isis like no other, from a new turkish attack.
the customs union, mr president, is, as many have pointed out today, a fundamental basis for the completion of the european common market with common rules. the report thus highlights the challenges for a better functioning of the customs union, particularly at the digital level. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there are legal obligations of turkey within the customs union. the obligations are towards the european union and concern in particular the republic of cyprus: normalisation of relations with the withdrawal of the occupying army, recognition of the republic of cyprus and many others. i therefore ask you, with the elections in mind, how can we trust you to promote the common rules of the european union that we all share, if you are promoting the upgrading of trade relations with turkey without first fulfilling its obligations towards the european union?
the committee on development and cooperation adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, the creation of the european solidarity corps will be the cornerstone of european solidarity and volunteering and will develop the spirit of solidarity and volunteering among european young people. the ese programme offers young people the opportunity to participate in solidarity programmes to address social challenges in the field of humanitarian aid. our recommendation, however, is that the age limit should not be 30 in the field of humanitarian aid, but that more experienced people should be allowed to help in the effort, because it often takes special training and knowledge before taking up the task. there are also concerns about the allocation of the budget to the various aspects and that is why we, on behalf of the committee on development, tabled amendments to ensure that adequate funding is provided for all humanitarian aid activities. the failures of previous voluntary action programmes of the european union must not continue. we want to have a successful european solidarity corps. i welcome the proposed simplified procedures for the quality label for participating organisations, as well as the registration of those already participating. i know firsthand the enormous problems with bureaucratic procedures and i hope they will be simplified.
mr president, a few days ago new gas fields were discovered in the eastern mediterranean, in the cypriot eez, in the eez of the republic of cyprus. this creates positive prospects for the implementation of the european union's energy plans without dependence on third countries, and for stability in the wider region, with states within the european union and states outside the european union. but at the same time, turkey is increasing its aggressiveness with new threats and is conducting in the eastern mediterranean the largest naval exercise in its history, as it boasts. the turkish ministry of defence has even published a map illegally presenting the republic of cyprus, a member state of the european union, as an extension of turkey; this is the map, this is turkey, and this is the republic of cyprus. in other cases we have imposed sanctions; in the case of cyprus we are sticking to resolutions. when do we react to the attacker? in order to have credibility, sanctions are imposed on turkey and an arms embargo.
mr president, i too would like to stress the importance of creating a sanctions mechanism that targets both individual criminals and national governments. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. unfortunately, our behaviour to date will show in the course of time whether we will change and finally treat all these offenders in the same way. however, it has become clear that the european institutions do not treat offenders and criminals in the same way. for example - and i end by saying - the crime of the disappearance of christian and european culture in the turkish-occupied northern part of cyprus is a crime that you are silent about, commissioner.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there can be no progress in the field of human rights without some form of sanction. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism, and that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. in such a case, we may not be able to convince the state in question or its officials, but we will no doubt have succeeded in developing the necessary debate among the population of that state. without this public debate, sanctions could easily be perceived by this state as a hostile move and that would not be constructive at all.
the question is "blue card". i have listened carefully to mr boştinaru mentioning many times that turkey is a partner. i really wanted you to explain to us here in the european parliament what we mean by and how we feel about partners. partners like turkey, which is the most unreliable, the most provocative partner, which attacks member countries of the european union. and i would like to know, if turkey attacked romania in the same way that it attacked greece and cyprus, would that be your reaction? if turkey did not recognise romania as a member of the european union, as an independent country, as it does not recognise cyprus, would you consider turkey a reliable partner that we should continue to treat in this way, without taking measures and sanctions? (applause from the centre and the right)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, dear mr hahn, mrs piri, dear colleagues, this may be my last substantive speech before the european parliament on a very ambitious experiment undertaken by mankind. but speaking of turkey, i must say to you - and this is not just about turkey - that we lack solidarity, ladies and gentlemen, between the member states and, unfortunately, sometimes also between the peoples. it is not cyprus - i am from cyprus and i have to say a few words to you - it is not cyprus in this debate, an occupied country, it is not a necessary background for the debate taking place here today. there is a lack of clarity, to say the least, in our attitude towards turkey, both as member states and as members of the european parliament. we do not know what to say to turkey, but at the same time turkey knows very well what it is saying to us. the european people's party has called for an end to the negotiations with that country, but at the same time it is calling for the upgrading of the customs union. it's like taking bread from someone, but giving them the oven and the wheat. i think that is the wrong approach. we must be honest with turkey and let it know exactly what we are asking of it. mr çavuşoğlu, recently, but also many other officials give me a few seconds, mr president often-frequently refer to the phrase we are ready for any solution in cyprus . this includes the confident position that they are seeking a two-state solution. there can be no cypriot who will lift the pen to sign a two-state solution. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. only the federation can be the solution to this great problem. i call on you to show solidarity with the cypriot people and i call on the cypriots to show solidarity with the problems facing other peoples in europe.
mr president, the report completely ignores the basic principles of law for the solution of the cyprus problem and not only supports untrue facts but is blatantly lying when it refers to an alleged agreement reached in crans-montana. the bi-zonal bi-communal federation proposed in the report as a solution to the cyprus problem is not in line with the principles and values of the european union and is leading to the turkishisation of cyprus. the european parliament already has a very heavy responsibility in accepting the facts of the turkish military occupation of the island. the report absolves turkey of any responsibility for the failure to resolve the cyprus problem and does not accept the link between the recognition of the republic of cyprus and the progress of accession negotiations. for example, how do you want to update the customs union agreement when the existing one has not been implemented? turkey is constantly and practically threatening cyprus. the report responds to threats with wishes. i shall vote against the report because it contains lies. it calls for the continuation of a dangerous process of complete conquest of my country by turkey, it legitimises the occupation, it supports the accession of a dictatorial regime to the european union and, of course, for those who want the accession process to continue... one minute each year for the most important issue of my country: the occupation by turkey.
mr president, i regret to observe that there is a theatre of the absurd and an attempt to serve interests. some speak of a break, but at the same time they are pushing for the upgrading of the customs union. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in the interests of the european union to take a decision on the matter. is that what we want? let's get this straight. we want turkey to have a european path and a european perspective, but only if it respects the principles and values of the european union. let us ask ourselves: what has happened to the policy followed so far? it is imprisoning turkish citizens, expelling european journalists, continuing to occupy 40% of cyprus and threatening the exclusive economic zone of a member state of the european union on a daily basis.
the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process, and it is a party to the peace process. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in turkey, and the european council has already taken a decision on the situation in turkey. since he does not respect anything we are discussing, we must react. and the only reaction when turkey violates principles and values in the occupied cyprus by turkish troops, when it violates the cypriot eez, when it challenges greece and cyprus, countries that are members of the european union, is the reaction of the european parliament. if he does not implement the report, we will be forced to freeze turkey's pre-accession aid. we have not asked any european citizen if he wants to give one euro to turkey today and we must do so, because only then will turkey finally comply with all that we are discussing and it has never complied. it is inconceivable to upgrade the customs union without recognising the republic of cyprus, without breaking the deadlock on the cyprus issue, where despite the goodwill of the president of the republic of cyprus, turkey and erdogan remain intransigent and provocative.
mr president, what is turkey today? an open prison with massive human rights violations and a breakdown of the rule of law. outside of turkey? an expansionist power that violates international law and has an islamist political agenda. the european union's policy has unfortunately been poisoned by the economic interests and political ambitions of individual states at the expense of our values. the most striking example: turkey's obligations to the european union concerning a small member state, the republic of cyprus, have never been fulfilled. the european union's hypocritical policy is, incidentally, fuelling anti-european forces which want to destroy the european project. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'm sorry he's not in, and i'm even more sorry because i'm afraid some of you will regret it in the future.
mr president, turkey continues to violate the human rights and fundamental freedoms of its people, and it is illegally and by force of arms occupying the territory of a member state of the european union. it is unacceptable to seek to upgrade the customs union when turkey refuses to fulfil fully and without discrimination the obligations arising from the current agreement and refuses to recognise the republic of cyprus. the epp, in a show of populism, proposes the termination of the accession negotiations, while at the same time advocating the unconditional upgrading of the customs union. we call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote against the proposal for unconditional upgrading of the customs union, as it goes against every rule of the functioning of the union and every concept of law. the european union is also prepared to take action to ensure that the turkish cypriot authorities are able to comply with the obligations of the european union. to put an end to illegal activities in the cypriot eez, to withdraw the occupying army from cyprus, to end settlement and to contribute effectively to the settlement of the cyprus problem on the basis of a bi-zonal bi-communal federation as defined in the un security council resolutions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament. the aim is to reduce non-performing loans in an effective way and at the same time without creating negative effects on the real economy and borrowers. so far, all is well. three points: firstly, the protection of borrowers, given that the bank is the de facto strong man and the borrower consumer is the de facto weak man, as defined in this european directive on abusive clauses, means that we should intervene and in particular the european commission should investigate complaints about the ineffective implementation of this directive. i would therefore point out that in the case of cyprus in particular, this european directive is not being applied effectively and is not being applied uniformly in other member states. the second point is risk sharing. i would like to repeat what my colleague said: ideological reasons - but i would also add that the special interests of some member states - are preventing the completion of the european banking union with the third pillar which was and remains the issue: a pan-european deposit guarantee. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial markets are not affected by the excessive deficit. and the third point: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the problem was, as it turned out, non-performing loans from the start. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. they were deceived by the specific authorities of the government in cyprus.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. madam president, commissioner, we want the european parliament's voice to be heard loudly at a time when multilateral cooperation for the well-being of people and the good of the planet, whether in the context of action on climate change or in solidarity and peace, cannot be taken for granted. it is therefore important to continue the practice of the annual strategy report on the implementation and achievement of the sustainable development goals and to represent the european parliament each year at the high-level political forum. today, the strategy report is even more timely as the commission is preparing the joint synthesis report, which we expect soon, on the european union's support to developing countries in implementing the 2030 agenda, with the contribution of the european union member states. we are convinced that a truly multi-level governance approach with active engagement of the public, civil society and the private sector on a broad basis is required for the effective implementation of the sdgs. close monitoring, proportionate accountability and effective review mechanisms to assess progress made are essential to improve national strategies and the effective implementation of the targets at all levels. our report aims to contribute to the preparation of the european union for the achievement of a comprehensive european union strategy for 2030, to implement the sustainable development goals and to improve their integration into the policies and governance mechanisms of the european union; a development strategy based on education, professional training and the creation of basic infrastructure. such a large-scale european policy for sustainable development must be based on an analysis of policy gaps and an assessment of the distance to the objectives. it should set out clear and distinct targets, indicators and actions needed to improve policy coordination and policy coherence for sustainable development at european level. to this end, we call on the commission to undertake an in-depth analysis of the inequalities and inadequacies of existing policies in order to identify critical areas of synergies and inconsistencies. commissioner, we would basically like to know what your plans are for the period up to 2030 in terms of policy and legislative arrangements, statistics and data collection, governance and best practices, with the aim of implementing a comprehensive strategy for the success of the 2030 agenda, possibly before the end of 2019. the fact that many member states and partner countries outside the european union have made significant efforts to design mechanisms and strategies for the successful implementation of the sdgs and to integrate them into their policies and governance is a very, very positive step. however, we must make other improvements at european union level and it is also very important to encourage and support third countries to follow similar practices. i would like to conclude by saying that the european union must be a global leader in implementing the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals in cooperation with its member states. our aim must always be the same: to achieve sustainable development and the wider prosperity of all without discrimination, without tailings and without leaving anyone behind.
first vice-president of thecommission. – madam president, just to react to a few things that were said. i think we have a huge opportunity to do exactly what mr caputo has just said, to organise this paradigm change. i sensed also, when i spoke to the ministers in the general affairs council earlier this week, that in the member states things are shifting as well in this direction. so, i think after the european election this parliament with the new commission could have a huge opportunity to frame the activities of the next five years using the strategic development goals (sdgs). i think we have this opportunity now and i think there is growing consensus also in member states to do that. that would be my first remark. my second remark is this: those who, in general terms, deny climate change – you even have people who deny all the scientific evidence – those who want to say that if you want to have a sustainable society we all will have to live in caves munching on grass, should understand that this project fear is not going to fly, because there is a way, if we are consistent and if we move quickly, to have high levels of well-being and still not use the planet as though we have two more planets waiting for us. there is a way to do that. but the issue is, the longer you wait, the more difficult it’s going to be and i believe the only way we can get our societies to embrace the idea is to put social sustainability front and centre. there, i fully agree with mr marias when he says you have to make sure you can convince the people there is a sustainable future for them in this, with a decent job, with decent salaries, with decent social protection. if they have the feeling that they’re going to be the ones living in caves munching on grass, they will stop. they will not give the political support we need to go in that direction. so i think we need to put this front and centre. to mr gerbrandy, i would say, well, sir, if you think that’s the fact, what this commission has done is because of your tenacity i grant you that with pleasure. but i have to say the way ms ska keller recently said somewhere that better regulation has led to lowering of standards, i think better regulation has given us the possibility to have the european’s view, for instance on the nature directives. we could not have protected the nature directives if we did not have this public consultation, which said very clearly that the vast, vast majority of europeans want the nature directives to protect nature. so, in that sense, better regulation helped and it helped us to move with lightning speed on the plastic strategy, which is unique in the world and mr gerbrandy knows this very well. it also helped us move with lightning speed on the first steps of the circular economy, which is something also commissioner jyrki katainen has done a lot of work on and which is very good for our collective future. so, you know, all the fears we had at the beginning that this would lead to lower ambitions and a lowering of standards, this did not happen. this is not what this commission did. i think we really moved forward. finally, one remark on cultural sustainability. isn’t it ironic, isn’t it ironic that the political movements who do everything to cut cultural subsidies and say this is for the elite, are the same movements who are pleading for us to safeguard our culture and foster our culture. for me, culture is not an exclusive thing. for me, culture is not a weapon to exclude other people. for me, culture is the way to develop pride in who we are and curiosity in who we are not, and curiosity is the way forward for our development. without curiosity, without critical thinking, we will not be able to go forward and those who want to make us prisoner of a culture in fear of other cultures will kill curiosity, will kill creativity and will not help us move forward.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. madam president, i too would like to thank commissioner timmermans for his inspired opening speech and for his replies, and also mr gambús and the shadow rapporteurs for their contributions. i would particularly agree with mr peterle that health is a key parameter of development. there can be no development without health infrastructure and there can be no health infrastructure without training doctors, midwives, nurses, craftsmen and teachers. education is therefore the most powerful engine for development. i think that a lot of what has been said by colleagues is embedded in the prospects of this report. we will try to achieve the sustainable development goals without retreat and backwardness. the basic condition is, of course, that 0.7% of the gross national product of the member states should be allocated to this purpose.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the gue group believes that the new gas directive cancels out the sovereign rights of the member states to build pipelines with third countries and does not take account of the specificities of each country, which make the role of national energy policies irreplaceable. it is unacceptable that the commission should be asked for authorisation five months in advance to negotiate with a third country to create a new pipeline or to amend an existing pipeline agreement. it is equally unacceptable to require a member state to wait 90 days for the commission to decide whether or not to give its approval so that the state can sign the agreement it has concluded with the third country. the national flexibility to develop energy-efficient relationships is completely lost, particularly when there are still energy-isolated states and regions. instead of solving the energy supply and security bottlenecks facing the european union with this directive, it will create new problems both in the operation of existing pipelines and where new pipelines are to be built, for example in the eastern mediterranean. the commission has also made a number of proposals to the council, including the proposal for a regulation on the protection of consumers' rights in respect of natural gas, the proposal for a regulation on the protection of consumers' rights in respect of natural gas, and the proposal for a regulation on the protection of consumers' rights in respect of natural gas. the european union, on the other hand, is silent about turkey's violations of the sovereign rights of a member state, and i am referring to the cypriot eez.
the turkish occupation of cyprus continues and is a crime against the european union. but when we demonstrated it five years ago in this very room, very few people paid any attention. when erdoğan went ahead and crushed human rights in turkey itself and jailed anyone who disagreed with him, more people started to pay attention, but some people found reasons to support him again. the european union is also aware of the fact that the cyprus problem is a serious one, and that the cyprus problem is a serious one. i think the time has come for us all to be judged by our actions. we are not going to support the turkish cypriot people, we are not going to support the turkish cypriot people, we are not going to support the turkish cypriot people, we are not going to support the turkish cypriot people, we are not going to support the turkish cypriot people, we are not going to support the turkish cypriot people, we are not going to support the turkish cypriot people, we are not going to support the turkish cypriot people. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. in politics, we are judged by our foresight. let us finally put europe itself first and not anything else.
madam president, i come from cyprus. these days mark 45 years since the darkest page in the island's history, when the junta, through the designs of nato and with the support of the local fascist organization eoka b, staged a coup d'état aimed at killing the legitimate president, archbishop makarios. the consequences have been and continue to be tragic for our country and our people, with thousands of dead, many still missing, with a violent occupation of 37% of the cypriot territory, with a settlement and an attempt to change the demographic character of our country. we need and ask for the practical support of europe, away from measures which are repeated or reiterated and are inferior to the circumstances, a turkey which seems to be valuable to some european interests, but more valuable is the defence of international law with a view to resuming the talks from where they were interrupted in crans montana, in order to find a solution which will help the cypriot people and the peoples of the region, but will also contribute to a safer europe.
mr president, welcome, mr president, good luck with the finnish presidency. you spoke of a strong europe, a europe of security, of human rights. i come from the only european country that has been occupied for 45 years and is now facing a second invasion, and we are talking about european territory and we are talking about turkey, which wants to become part of the european family. i want you to keep that in mind.
question with a blue card. thank you very much. it's not really a question. it's supporting what the colleague is saying. i have heard many times from everyone here that europe and we as the european parliament can take a leading role. we are not only able to do so, but we must do so. we have received this mandate from the european citizens. the question is: how do we as the european parliament take on this responsibility? it's nice to say we need to take a leadership role. how can we push for this leadership role as the european parliament?
in writing. our planet's "lungs" are burning and climate change is rapidly evolving into a climate crisis, leading us into an ecological nightmare. the amazon is burning because of financial interests. with the stamp of bolsonaro's policies, the amazon is being sacrificed to the altar of profit in order to serve the interests of large domestic and foreign industries. the 40,000 fires that have been started in the amazon this year were no accident. it was the result of criminal politics. we demand the obvious. we call for the eu to take immediate action to send aid to save the amazon. immediate action in the eu to prevent and deter illegal logging, arbitrary deforestation, and forest destruction and fires. let's not make any more of these big-mouthed statements. they're not useful. we need drastic measures. we therefore call on the eu to immediately announce the allocation of a specific fund for reforestation in all member states as a matter of urgency. because our home planet is burning, and we can't afford to fail!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, after what has been said, i wonder whether the report is wrong or whether we are wrong in our thinking. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. some others, some other political factions have collaborated with the enemies. you want me to tell you the truth? the first truth is that it was the soviet army that liberated the peoples of europe so that we can be here today. the second truth is that twenty million communists gave their lives so that we can be free today. the third truth is that those who today try in various ways to incriminate communists or to outlaw communist parties do so out of selfishness for specific reasons. that is, to eliminate any force of resistance to the authoritarianism of the establishment. an establishment that's been draining kids like eileen from the frozen graveyards of the mediterranean. an establishment like that of europe which produces armies of unemployed, which is on its knees in the face of markets, which is constantly selling off to big industries the funds to produce weapons. we do need to talk about the truth. the truth is that we are standing up to fascism precisely so that people can have hope, so that the peoples can have a future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, whenever we talk about turkey, one image comes to mind: the european parliament has been very active in the fight against racism and xenophobia, and it has been very active in the fight against racism and xenophobia, and it has been very active in the fight against racism and xenophobia. and they stay down and kneeling. as long as this picture does not change, turkey will continue to slide towards authoritarianism. it will continue to hold cyprus hostage, to destroy democracy, to restrict freedoms, to marginalize and expel mayors and even prime ministers, to persecute turks and kurds, whether they are politicians or journalists or intellectuals. mrs von der leyen and other european officials, change this image if you wish and if you can, so that we can finally put an end to all this shame.
mr president, i have heard too many findings today, too many conclusions. i think it's time for some measurements. it's the only language turkey understands. that's clear. i'm almost the same age as the turks invaded my country. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. are we prepared as the european union to take decisive action because it is the only language that erdogan understands? let's do this i think it's time we did. my country is also a victim of this policy we are discussing today. turkish drillers as we speak, ignoring the law and the laws, with the support of the navy have surrounded my homeland. at the same time they are proceeding with the settlement of sand hill ignoring every un resolution. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted. i ask that you join forces with us to take action to bring costs to the erdogan regime. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's external borders are not crossed. i call on you to stand by us by taking substantive and effective measures to counter turkish piracy inside turkey and abroad.
madam president, unfortunately i cannot speak my mother tongue – turkish – in this house, although it is one of the official languages of cyprus, where i come from. so i will pick up other languages: i will go on in german and finish in greek. lasst uns darüber im klaren sein: es gibt keinen rechtsradikalismus ohne nationalismus. und nationalismus heißt gewalt. die gründungsväter der eu wussten das ganz genau. deswegen wollten sie den nationalismus überwinden und eine nachnationale einigung zustande bringen. aber leider sehen wir heute überall in europa nationalistische tendenzen und nationalstaatlichen egoismus. lasst uns auch darüber im klaren sein: die rechtsradikale gewalt ist hauptsächlich männliche gewalt, die die frauen, die homosexuellen, die juden, die muslime, die flüchtlinge zum ziel hat. um rechtsradikalismus zu bekämpfen, brauchen wir eine neudefinition von „wir“. wir müssen das europäische, plurale, demokratische „wir“ stärken gegenüber dem nationalen „wir“, auf das sich der rechtsradikalismus beruft und versucht, homogenität herzustellen und pluralität und vielfalt zu beseitigen, und damit alles, was die eu sein soll. πρέπει να οικοδομήσουμε την κοινή ευρωπαϊκή μας συνείδηση. χρειαζόμαστε πολιτικές που θα προωθήσουν την κοινοτική ένταξη. (η πρόεδρος διακόπτει τον ομιλητή)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the european union, do you remember when you were going to bring the arab spring to the arab countries? now that winter has come, weep crocodile tears over the ruins. eight years ago, a foreign invasion was launched against the syrian government to overthrow it and to dismember the country. the united states of america, nato, turkey, the european union and the gulf monarchies have armed the hordes of jihadists and the islamic state through the syrian opposition. now, with the tolerance of russia and america and the phrasal condemnations of the european union alone, erdoğan has been unleashed like a beast to drink blood and to re-crack a long-suffering people, the kurds. no hesitation, no moral inhibition from anyone! it's enough to redivide the territory, sell weapons, get the oil out! in the end, i think that all of this sounds tragic and that we are rather tragic. (applause from the centre and the right)
madam president, we have turned a blind eye to a crime. we have left the people who fought isis in the hands of turkey, and we are discussing here today in europe whether we should take action and when. let me remind you that 45 years ago, turkey called the invasion of my country an "exploratory operation". forty-five years later, we still have 200,000 refugees, displaced and missing. then, 45 years ago, the international community stood by and let turkey complete its crime in cyprus. so today, it's quiet again. syria 2019 - cyprus 1974: the perpetrator remains the same and remains unpunished. we have enormous responsibilities; europe is absent. we'll be judged by history. (applause from the centre and the right)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i do not know, but it is unlikely that lucian, an old syrian writer of 150 a.d., when he thought of 'the mountain was planted and the mouse was born', had in mind today's europe. in other words, i do not know whether we can say that this european 'gastronomy' against turkey and the provocative erdoğan, which has been going on for years now, is 'very bad for nothing'. if we compare it to a child, then the child born yesterday by the european institutions, the measures against turkey, is a sick child, and i wonder whether these sick measures will frighten erdoğan, who is becoming more and more harsh, more authoritarian, more provocative. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the question is simple: are we willing and able - in one day - to stop selling arms to erdoğan and paralyze his economy? the rest is just a pretext to cover our insubordination.
madam president, i would like to reply to the honourable member who said that this was an ethnic conflict. when a country invades your country, makes two hundred thousand people refugees, kills them and, for 45 years, occupies them, that is not ethnic conflict, it is a crime that must be punished. cyprus is facing an unprecedented escalation of turkey's continued illegal actions and the most serious violation of its sovereign rights to date. the third illegal drilling in just five months in the eez of the republic of cyprus is taking place in lot 7 already demarcated since 2003 between cyprus and egypt. in addition, turkey is surrounding cyprus, conducting illegal activities with numerous warships. the european union has been a major player in the process of democratization in cyprus, and we are all aware of the fact that the european union has been a major player in the process of democratization in cyprus. on 11 november, the foreign affairs council adopted measures against turkey. these are not ends in themselves. the european union is not only a member of the european union but also a member of the european union. the european union has a duty to help the people of cyprus.
madam president, there is a very beautiful greek word which is understood in many countries, and that is 'hypocrisy'. i have heard many times, about three hundred times, from 9 a.m. until now, 'it must be done', 'we must do', 'we must act'. who exactly is going to do it? who are we waiting for to do it? greece alone, that we left it to manage a problem, which you here state is unmanageable? who exactly are we waiting for? when the greek minister comes and says that there are 5 000 unaccompanied children in greece and we ask countries to show solidarity and only one or two countries respond, what are we talking about here? i repeat, the word "hypocrisy" is understood by all of you.
mr president, mrs mogherini, once again the us government is trying to legitimize israel's unacceptable policies. it defiantly labels israeli settlements in occupied palestine as legal, having previously moved its embassy to jerusalem and recognized israel's sovereignty over the golan heights. at the same time, israel is constantly expanding its settlements. the human rights violations of palestinians by settlers and israeli security forces continue. the european union cannot and must not be indifferent. it must put pressure on israel to end its settlement policy and commit itself to a road map for peace and a two-state solution. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. settlement is a war crime.
mr president, i am defending the right of every person, whether christian or muslim, to exercise his religious duty. another resolution? another sentence of condemnation for algeria? if what we've heard is true, and i have no reason to believe it's not, a verbal condemnation doesn't help at all, i think. measures must be taken. as a cypriot, i know what it means to be denied the right to practice your religious duty. most of the churches in occupied cyprus have been converted by the turks into stables, even toilets. and i ask the commission, beyond the verbal condemnation, beyond the resolutions, will we take action as the european union if this is happening in algeria?
your honor, as a combat journalist for 23 years, i am appalled and horrified at the thought that a colleague was murdered for doing her job. i am even more frightened because there are suspicions that high-ranking government officials are involved in this murder, and at the highest level. i want to state, with all the strength of my soul, that i support the efforts of our maltese friends to bring the truth to light and to justify the unjust loss of my colleague daphne galizia. corruption must be stamped out and those guilty must resign immediately and pay, no matter how high they are. we stand with those who fight corruption, so that the truth may shine. today we are all maltese.
mr president, commissioner, we are discussing the european union's disability strategy post-2020 with the understanding that one in six citizens in the european union is experiencing some form of disability. disability is primarily a human rights issue. there are no disabled people, but people with souls and needs. we wanted to be clear to the commission what we were asking for. we call for full implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, full participation in all areas of life, with dignity. we are asking that there should not be a single person in any corner of europe who, because of his disability, cannot do all that his fellow citizens can do.
the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. our issue, and your issue, is not the iron curtain. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction. your issue is the false and theatrical words when we face erdoğan's intolerable provocations in cyprus, libya and syria at the expense of the sovereign rights of the peoples of the region. it's the bloody distribution of energy resources in the region. it is when you say, and we say, to erdoğan that he is our strategic partner, when we sell him weapons and when we negotiate the refugee, the souls of people, that is, by locking them up in concentration camps and this, really, is indeed, i am sure you are hearing me, an iron curtain. it is a shame and a moral blow to europe.
