thank you, mr president, and thank you to the reporters and all those who have contributed to our work for almost a year. my report on the implementation of the european regulation on plant protection products, which the commissioner has kindly mentioned and which was adopted by a majority in this parliament last year, has shown quite clearly that there are gaps in our authorisation system which ultimately result in insufficient protection of public health and the environment. today, therefore, thanks to the work of the special committee, we have on the table a truly excellent comprehensive recommendation on how to substantially improve this european authorisation system for pesticides and restore citizens' confidence in our decision-making. i am therefore rather shocked that my colleagues in the ecr group are trying to make this joint work worthless by means of amendments in the plenary. their proposals cut across the board, aiming to better protect particularly vulnerable groups such as children, pregnant women, and seeking to block, among other things, proposals to assess developmental neurotoxicity, the long-term effects of pesticides, exposure to sub-limits of several pesticides at once or combinations of these substances. the goal is food safety and protecting health and the environment, and i absolutely don't understand why conservatives would want to deny this information to both decision makers and citizens themselves. this is ridiculous. i would like to remind you, mr president, that all european legislation is to be based on the precautionary principle of the treaties, which we must apply unconditionally whenever there is scientific uncertainty about risks to human health, animal health and environmental impact. the substance of the proposed measures is to help eliminate this scientific uncertainty, but also, of course, to improve farmers' access to safer alternatives to chemical pesticides and to increase the transparency of the whole approval system, which is in the interests of everyone. i believe that the vote on this report is one that the european public will be watching and remembering in about 130 days.
mr. chairman, i was at the beginning when the mandate for this committee was written. that is why i remember well the arguments that came out of the mouths of the right-wing factions in particular. i remember being annoyed a few times that if the mandate was supposed to be what they wanted it to be, there was no point in setting up a committee. some of the worst measures to get nothing investigated have been avoided, but the rest have not. unfortunately, the result of the work is the same. on the one hand, we have a lot of positive things, like addressing plagiarism, transparency of studies, conflicts of interest, suggestions for improving drug reviews. however, then there are questions about glyphosate or the sustainable use of pesticides that have simply been left behind. overall, the negotiations in committee did not go very well, with the constant rejection of experts proposed by the opposition being only one of the margins. i would urge you not to weaken this weak report any further in the plenary vote. if that happens, the result of a year's work will be nothing more than the start of a campaign for some of us.
i was not one of the advocates for the establishment of the pest special committee. in general, i believe that issues should be dealt with in standing committees rather than ad hoc committees. special committees always tend to politicize and ideologise the issue more. but in the case of the withdrawal from the pest committee, i can congratulate our group in the european people's party for ensuring that this text is balanced and realistic. it calls for greater independence and expertise in pesticide authorisation procedures, which is certainly appropriate. it's good to have the glyphosate review. nor do i object to the claim that the use of plant protection products for the purpose of drying crops before harvesting is inappropriate from the point of view of human health.
madam president, i would like to remind you that the last report on mainstreaming gender equality in the work of the european parliament was discussed here in 2016 and included a call for equal representation in the committee on women's rights and gender equality. but almost three years have passed, and little has changed in that regard. we are nowhere near equal representation in this committee, which should be symbolic for the european parliament. i think if we don't achieve that goal, it's very ridiculous, let me say, sadly hypocritical, that we want to educate others about the need for balanced representation of women and men. we cannot achieve this on our own in a committee that is supposed to be concerned with this very objective. i'll remind you of the number 7 men out of 33 regular members, 10 men out of 29 alternates. that's not really equal representation. i consider the establishment of this committee and the consideration of such reports, unfortunately, only as a certain alibi. we have a strategy, we have a report, we have a resolution, but basically nothing substantial is going to change. i think our goal really has to be equality between women and men. protecting women in their natural role, and that's the mother role. let's support women to develop their professional careers, let's support women in their dignified lives, in their role as mothers, so that they can properly take care of their families.
madam president, i would like to say that nuclear energy is a low-carbon alternative to fossil fuels for most of the member states of the european union and is also a key component for energy generation in their energy mix. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the nuclear safety and security policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the nuclear safety and security policy. we are talking about a research project that is undoubtedly delayed, has its problems, probably also comes late, these capital expenditure increases must be paid precisely in view of the fact that this research, this fusion reactor part simply can be a very significant step forward and can also give us some incentive to meet the paris climate targets, so i take this report with the knowledge that it is a serious delay, but in any case it represents a certain possible step forward for us.
madam president, i would also like to point out this unusual situation, that in the czech republic, for example, the public administration system has been undergoing reform since its inception. this is a very slow and complex process and it is important to use the eu budget for public administration reform. it is clear that, for example, cohesion policy resources should not replace the member state where the national source of funding should be used, that is to say, it should no longer be regarded as a complementary system, and of course this union budget should again be primarily result-oriented. the positive impact of the use of this budget then also has an impact on the public administration of the member states and this effect is then multiplied. i would also point out that we should not only focus on the issue of funding public reporting, but also on the exchange of information. it's an agenda that actually uses learning to share information with each other. these are things i took the liberty of observing without presenting the report to the reporter.
i would like to emphasize, madam president, the report by mr grzyb, because i think it is really very good and we should remember that we stand for the principle of equality. that means equality for both believing and unbelieving groups. what mr jurek said then, although he was right, i also regret very much when i see a certain incoherence in european policy, in the sense that we deal with and provide development aid, often to countries which persecute christians. that's not a good example. on the other hand, the path chosen by the european union, that it wants to appoint a special envoy for the issue of religious freedom, i think is very correct and i want to support it, because religion is sometimes pushed to two extremes today. either religious groups are persecuted or religion is used as a political instrument. we should push our position, which means equal rights, but also the guarantee of religious freedom, which is given by the european charter, to which we all certainly subscribe.
madam president, i believe that the establishment of the function of special envoy for the promotion of freedom of religion or belief outside the european union is a very important and good decision. he is also happy that the first to hold this position since 2016 is the slovak diplomat and christian democrat ján figeľ. it was he who, together with czech diplomats in sudan, negotiated the release of czech humanitarian worker petr jašek. he was sentenced to 20 years in prison for documenting the persecution of christians in sudan. his release followed, and i believe it was also the initiative of former commissioner figeel, but also of the european parliament and the commission, together with czech diplomacy, which helped to free petr jasek. there are still millions of convicted and persecuted people and it is important not to relax in their protection.
madam president, i understand the intention of colleagues who are trying to establish equality between women and men, they want to reduce the gender pay gap, but colleagues, this is not the right path you have chosen. we cannot violate subsidiarity in the interests of this objective. taxation, the tax system, is a matter for the member states. and i will always be in favour of the possibility of using, for example, family taxation, the right of families to benefit from tax reductions, because it is the best instrument to help to consolidate families, to take advantage of the fact that women are thereby favoured, if the member state has this tax advantage. this message is going in exactly the opposite direction. i am very sorry, i respect my colleague urthasu, for example, who is one of the few brave men who is a member of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, but this is not a good solution.
madam president, i do not wish to minimize the subject, but i would certainly like to say that there are a number of very instructive examples and positive points in the report. in general, i would like to emphasize that inequality can be observed in all societies in terms of access to services, in the increasing income gap between men and women. i'd like to throw some ash on my head here, because the czech republic has a pretty significant gender pay gap. a man and a woman are equal partners to me, of course. however, in the case of tax policy, it is clear that their revenues are simply shared, and this is what the report also points out. i think we should specify this role for the member states in particular, because they are the ones who have an irreplaceable role in this case, and they should create a social system, a tax system that is equivalent. that means starting from the equal principle. i do not want to question the motivation of my colleagues for submitting this report, but at the same time i think that subsidiarity should be given a preferential place in this respect.
madam president, commissioner, i am of course aware that automated mobility has the potential for many sectors, as it offers new business opportunities for start-ups, of course smes, which are at the heart of our interest, and also for industry and businesses as a whole, especially in terms of creating new services in the field of mobility, and also has the potential to create jobs, which, however, also has the potential to be reduced. we deal with a whole range of legal aspects, security and, for example, reliable route data. the issue of insurance, special insurance, we're already solving the problem of congestion on existing infrastructure, and this congestion problem is not going to be solved by autonomous driving. the problem of cars in cities is here to stay. i certainly support this particular operation in public transport, but as the rapporteur has said, we still have a lot of work to do in the area of legislation, which should not be underestimated.
madam president, exactly 50 years ago, a student named jan palach set himself on fire in prague's wenceslas square. it was january 16, 1969. three days later, he died of burns. why would you do that? it was to remind us that he wanted to provoke the apathy of both czechs and slovaks against the occupation, against censorship, against the loss of the ideal of the prague spring. he wanted to stir up the conscience of the nation to resist. the strength of his protest struck a chord with the conscience and soul of both czechs and slovaks, who then returned to his legacy with pride 30 years ago during the so-called palach week, when they protested against the then communist dictatorship. jan palach sacrificed his life, but it was not in vain, because we live today in freedom, in the community of european nations. but his sacrifice is relevant today because the lies and intimidation continue to be spread. that is why we must remember his sacrifice today.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, generally speaking, the austrian presidency was well-crafted, well-organised and efficient – that’s because austria is of course a well—functioning country – so you covered a lot of issues. let me do just a little cherry picking to pick up just a few of them. i will start of course with migration and security. i have to tell you that it was really refreshing to see a slightly different point of view from the presidency and the chancellery than we have heard many times before. you indicated very clearly what many other politicians were hesitant to say, namely that europe is neither ready nor willing to accept continuous waves of migrants, as it would have an impact on both our security and the internal coherence of our societies. you also came forward with proposals and solutions. for instance, we’ve seen improvements of the schengen borders code or the entry—exit system, which will both help to manage migration and help us to tackle illegal migration. i can assure you your message was heard and appreciated, particularly in central and eastern europe and in the v4 countries. again it was proven how important it is to find a consensus between the member states instead of arbitrary solutions, like the very unfortunate relocation scheme pursued by the commission, which unfortunately caused one of the most serious clashes yet between east and west and between new and old eu member states. i hope that is definitely off the table. you also made it one of your priorities to ensure the prosperity and competitiveness of the european economy, especially through digitalisation and innovation, and you were right. while we have a well—established and functioning start-up culture, the biggest players often come from outside the european union. we need to do more for start-ups and for small and medium-sized enterprises. in this respect, we need to remove trade barriers. i would also like to congratulate you on the swift ratification of the free trade agreement with japan, which happened during your presidency. this creates the world’s largest free trade area, covering nearly 30% of global gdp. i hope that other similar treaties still in the pipeline – most notably with singapore and vietnam – will follow soon. last but not least, the multiannual financial framework negotiations continued under your presidency. they are not over yet, and that is good news, because this parliament and this commission are finishing their mandate, and therefore they should not decide on behalf of the member states or commissioners of the next term. external relations were also a big burden for you. i will not go further into that, but i will end by stating that the austrian presidency was pragmatic, non-ideological and not a presidency of big slogans, but rather of achievable results. this is good news. it was good to see common sense once again prevailing in most of your endeavours, because common sense is exactly what my own group is trying to pursue in this parliament.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, chancellor, i’m not sure whether you could bear even more congratulations, because we heard a lot today. so i will spare you by only saying that i think that that was an efficient presidency and austria did deliver as a presidency on its intentions. but i rather look at always every six-months period of time, not as a presidency issue but how did the european union really do, and how have we advanced, regardless of the presidency? and i think that this needs to be said. this is still a european union of 28 – maybe tomorrow 27 – member states where the presidency has a key role to play, but obviously it cannot perform miracles, but it can help a great deal. i think that the balance sheet, as i’ve said, is pretty good. but if you speak of the number of trilogues, i agree with you: i think this is again a sign of an efficient austrian presidency. but let’s look into the legislation that we have enacted: is it really always the right legislation which will really deliver on the three priorities that you had or on the priorities that we will have in the future? i’ll give you just one example. together with the rapporteur angelika niebler, we dealt with cyber security. i think the result is not bad at all. in fact, it’s a good result, and also i must say, even despite some clashes that we had with your ambassador (but that is a normal part of the trilogue), i need to say that it still reflects the lack of change of mind-set in the member states. we still look at cyber security as an issue where we tack between those who would like to prevail in terms of competences and the rest, and we are as strong or as weak as the weakest part of the chain of the european union. so that is just one example where i would like to say the numbers matter and you have been efficient, but it also matters what kind of legislation we are able to enact, how the member states are ready and, of course, how we manage to strike compromises with real ambition. on competitiveness, on digital: yes, again i think that this is significant progress, but still at the same time, if i had the brain (and i don’t) and i invented an application, would i commercialise it in the european union or would i go to silicon valley? and the answer is clear: i still would go to silicon valley. so there is a lot to do in terms of the european union’s ecosystem. let me just focus on two or three issues where i think we could have done better, for sure, and maybe that history will show also the presidency. one is on internal security. i do agree with you and i think it was a balanced approach, but still let’s admit that we still have a block in the council on a number of proposals which are still pending. and we are not facing today a crisis, we are facing a problem, and the moment the crisis would come, we could have significant difficulties on the budget. and i think that again, there is enormous progress – you have ticked all the boxes; the question is: how well were these boxes filled? and i must say i don’t agree with mr zahradil, who says that that should be left to the next parliament. no, i think we have been elected or appointed for the whole term. but i think that he would have to explain, whether it’s on cohesion terms or to farmers, that, when you are really lagging behind, it has an impact on your businesses. but what i would like to say on the budget is that we should still proceed, and that’s maybe one critical remark also to austria. i think that this is not realistic. i’m definitely against any waste of money, but i think that we need to address the fact that we have new challenges and we just can’t keep, without a serious revision of some of the policies, the budget, and eventually the sum will increase. but anyway, at the very end, i think with those remarks i think that you have done a very good job, but we as the european union are not yet doing the job that our citizens really expect us to do, and we do fail on some issues. (applause)
mr gollnisch, the issue is significantly more complicated, but i take note and you will receive a response.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
that concludes the vote.
the next item is the explanations of vote.
mr president, i supported my colleague's report, and i believe that it really touches on all the important areas, and it would be very wrong to narrowly define the subject, since it has implications for industry, of course, the digital economy, the environment, innovation and emission reduction. i believe we need rules in this industry. there is no doubt that we also need to motivate european businesses, smes to support this sector so that we are at the forefront of innovation. so far, this is not the case, they are actually colleagues across the atlantic, and it is important that these rules provide guidance for the proper and sustainable operation of these autonomous operations or these cars. we're dealing with legal insurance, liability, and of course, the right connectivity. i am in favour of not increasing the number of cars in our regions, and it is important that this mode of transport should be introduced into both public and rail transport.
madam president, i supported this report, although i am aware that our role is primarily to create certain synergies, an incentive for the member states, because they are the ones who are primarily responsible for the quality of their public administration. but we have clearly defined interests to protect in the field of the union, and that is, first of all, the interest of the european in being able to manage a substantial part, or better all, of his contacts with public administration through digital technologies, through 'egovernment', or, of course, to have access to information, to all the information he needs and seeks, through these digital technologies and 'egovernment' as such. we use a tool called cohesion policy to do this, which is also concerned with, for example, increasing the efficiency of public administration, and the involvement of the european budget is quite obvious there. as well as increasing the absorption capacity of the public administration. these are our interests that we are pursuing, and i think that the member states must add to that to ensure that all europeans have the same level of access to public administration rights.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
in writing. i too would like to wish romania a successful presidency. one of the most important legislative proposals we have on the table in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection is the package on the modernisation of consumer law. it also includes a proposal that, after years of proof and explanation, will finally put an end to the so-called dual quality of products. adapting the composition of branded products to where they are sold is not in line with the basic principles of the internal market. double quality must be an unfair commercial practice and duly penalized. the addition of the unfair commercial practices directive is a unique opportunity. let's not be fooled by arguments about preferences the world has never seen. romania has its own negative experience according to the tests carried out with double quality. it should therefore be more sensitive to the legitimate concerns of consumers than the previous austrian presidency and use this opportunity to strengthen citizens' confidence in a fair internal market.
mr president, i support the proposal for a revision of the regulation on the european globalisation adjustment fund and particularly welcome the amendment concerning both the reduction of staff and the extension of the period for assessing whether the conditions have been met. it is precisely from the perspective of smaller countries such as the czech republic that this change is for the better. in the future, this should make the application procedure easier to use and simplify for member states, and shorten the time limit for the commission to assess the application. i also support parliament's position that the fund should be able to finance incentives for employers to offer flexible working hours. this is important for parents, and these incentives make a lot of sense in terms of getting back to work and reconciling work and life.
mr president, i would of course like to express my support for this instrument and for the instruments of european policy, because it really helps disadvantaged groups of citizens. it also helps the regions that suffer the consequences of globalisation and the sectors of our economy that are affected. i have to say that i felt from the beginning that this globalisation fund was a great idea, and i think that if our european union policy was to address these very factors that affect the lives of people who lose their jobs, we could eliminate the brexit dispute. i was somewhat inspired to make this speech by the speech of my colleague mr simon, and i want to support him very much, i think that focusing on these factors that affect ordinary people is in the central interest of the european union and we should further deepen this instrument and work with it as a quality instrument to improve the quality of life of citizens.
mr president, i believe that this new regulation on the european social fund will contribute to a more efficient use of resources. there should be no overlap of funds and projects could combine several objectives. the new rules should facilitate implementation and reduce administrative burden. i also welcome the fact that funding is more closely linked to the european semester process. i believe that this should be the case for allocating resources to key priorities where member states are performing poorly. socio-economic disparities between member states should also be bridged more rapidly. i also appreciate the greater flexibility in investing resources, leaving a lot of scope for tailoring funding to the national context. in the czech republic, for example, we will be able to continue to support children's groups, micro-nursery schools and educational programmes.
mr. chairman, allow me to thank the rapporteur. the sad truth is that many social challenges persist in european society. more than 100 million citizens are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. in the czech republic alone, 863,000 people are trapped in a debt trap that has ended in execution. of course, this poses a huge problem, and one that is related to this is that people who are in debt very often do not believe in justice. these problems not only threaten the well-being of the citizens directly affected, but also put economic and social pressure on european society as a whole. and so i am very pleased that the european social fund plus will support investments in people and systems in policy areas such as employment, public services, health, education and social inclusion. the european union must never forget that the best investment is in people and in improving their quality of life. our citizens deserve the best conditions to develop freely in a peaceful society.
mr. president, i would just like to remind you that our friends from morocco, from the moroccan parliament, are sitting on the benches, so i would like to welcome them here.
mr president, i supported this report, and i think that the rules for the authorisation of pesticides in europe should be tightened up. it is good that we have a high-quality and we will have a high-quality uniform legislation for 28 and in the future 27 countries. i supported some of the amendments that brought about even more drastic regulation. i'm sorry that the amendment that was supposed to limit pesticide testing on animals didn't pass. i supported this motion. but i think the report is good and the new legislation will be better than the current one. so i am glad that the proposal has been passed, and i consider the tightening of the authorisation procedure for the placing of new pesticides on the market to be extremely important, significant, and this part is, in my view, the greatest benefit of the new legislation.
mr president, i have supported this draft report. i think it's important to be really responsible and sustainable. and for example, not only in europe but in other places, and especially in the czech republic, glyphosate and other substances are really overused in agriculture and these substances are also non-selective. they're really all-purpose, they're killing all the green. i think there are more available alternatives to these substances now and we should be as transparent as possible in our decision-making. i myself must admit that when i was still on the agri committee i was misled by one study which was not transparent and which could in fact be described as plagiarism, so it is good that we are moving in this direction of tightening up the criteria and of maximum transparency. that is why i supported this non-legislative report and i hope that this environmental approach will win out in more european union policies.
the next item is the topical debate (rule 153a) on comprehensive european education, research and remembrance of the totalitarian past (2019/2500(rsp)).
mr president, teaching history, teaching totalitarianism is necessary and not easy. that's why i want to remind you of the czech project memory of the nation, which is being carried out by the post bellum organization. this organization collects testimonies and distributes them to students in schools and to the community. the testimonies of the memorialists, this is a very effective method that we should be encouraging, because we know that the teachers have a key role to play, and we need to provide them with as much support and information as possible. the jan amos prize for teachers of european union studies is one such example. this pilot project was supported by the european parliament and should be implemented this year. it's our contribution and support for teachers who are supposed to encourage and inform students. and also the house of european history, which is in the hands of the european parliament. we have one specific contribution to make. on march 20th, a film about the student jan palach, who was mentioned earlier, will be shown here. today marks the 50th anniversary of the burning of his human torch.
member of the commission. mr president, i cannot resist, i must speak my language, because i also want to commemorate the sacrifice of jan palach, whose anniversary we are commemorating today. fifty years since the self-immolation of the student of the faculty of philosophy jan palach. as i listened to the debate, i realized how very strongly and how symbolically this information sounds here today in the context of totalitarianism, censorship, and i cannot help but remember the moment when my mother, when i was about 15 years old, i think it was a whisper, told me who jan palach was and what he did in 1969. i remember very clearly what she said to me: "don't say that name anywhere, but remember that name". and then came january 1989 and that name was chanted by us czechs in wenceslas square and i realized that the sacrifice that jan palach made, the self-immolation, the torturous and agonizing death that he chose, that the sacrifice was not in vain and that he had done his important work in czech society. and it should continue to do so not only in czech society, but in all of europe. i think that today, we should be aware of these connections, aware that totalitarianism brings censorship, brings backsliding, repression, emigration and moral distortion. these are all the fruits that we may be reaping today and that we must do everything against. as far as education is concerned, i think that nobody, not even the european union, which i represent, wants the education system of today to teach children the only truths that are allowed. it's the sign of totality. we want schools to give objective information, not to avoid the subject of modern history, and most importantly to teach the young generation to work with information, to lead them to critical thinking. because to think that only our education system, our schools, will ensure that we know our modern history, that's a very naive notion. we're in the internet age now, an age where, as many of you have discovered, we're being bombarded by waves of misinformation. that's why it's so important not just to give young people information, but to teach them to work with information, to teach them critical thinking and to let them work with information that they get from different sources. i think this is not just a task for the european union, but above all, as it has been said here, for the member states, on which i personally tend to really, really rely, to not allow totalitarianism to control not only education, but also our societies.
i must say that i am personally surprised and sorry that the colleagues who have expressed their concern about the european union's propaganda in the curricula here have not had enough time to hear the commissioner's reaction.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i would like to thank honourable members for this important and enriching debate. i believe that we have a wide consensus regarding the importance of education in building a europe for the future, based on common values, mutual understanding of our diverse traditions and shared awareness of the history of europe, including totalitarianism. parliament can be sure that the council will keep this issue high on its political agenda in the future. thank you very much, once again, for your attention.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the report by josep-maria terricabras, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2017 (2018/2103(ini)) (a8—0466/2018).
mr president, i do not know why, when we are talking about such an important issue as human rights, the representatives of the council, that is to say the romanian presidency, were not invited to discuss this issue. can you please explain this to me, or are basic human rights not important to the romanian presidency?
mr president, i particularly appreciate the first part of the report, which emphasises the rule of law. the european union is nothing but a law, a legal code. it has no police, customs or army of its own. therefore, insisting on respect for the law and values such as the rule of law is an existential matter for the union. unfortunately, this report completely ignores the manifestations of militant secularism in europe. so intense are the manifestations of intolerance and discrimination against christians in europe that a research institute has been set up in austria to study the phenomenon. but it is illogical, our system of fundamental rights is based only on respect for the individual, which has christian roots. without these roots, the whole system is in danger of degenerating. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i was talking about something else, i was talking about the discrimination against christians in europe. of course, any discrimination that is both illegal and harmful to some people in the european union is also not to my liking. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i respect everyone's beliefs, but i would point out that respect for the individual, which is the basis of human rights, if it is cut off from christian roots and not interpreted in their spirit, it inevitably leads to degeneration, and it is already happening.
mr president, i naturally agree with the emphasis on the rule of law and respect for the separation of powers and the independence of the judiciary in the member states. it's a fact that some countries in the european union have a big problem with that right now. i also agree with the report that article 7 should be invoked only when all other means have failed, that is, only as a last resort. i also have a number of substantial reservations about this report. first of all, i do not agree with the unilateral assessment of the activities of non-profit organisations in the mediterranean. helping people is good, but this activity must not serve as a motivating factor for smugglers and illegal migration. we must remember that the most vulnerable are women and children. it's not always easy, for example, in the greek islands, and we should especially volunteer these days to help greece in this difficult winter. i strongly disagree with the report's recommendation to ratify the istanbul convention on sexual and reproductive health and sexual education. it's a purely national matter. the european union should protect the right to life, not promote abortion.
for the group gue/ngl madam president, every year thousands of small and mediumsized enterprises across the european union go bankrupt while waiting to pay their bills. late payments in europe cause many insolvencies, leading to social problems and job losses. the 2011 directive on the prevention of late payment in commercial transactions was intended to improve the situation for companies. i thank the rapporteur for mapping out and showing in detail the situation surrounding the implementation of this directive. it appears that a number of problems and obstacles still exist, such as a lack of awareness of the existence of this legal instrument. furthermore, i would point out that only a small percentage of smes have seen a positive impact on late payments from debtors as a result of this directive. ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot to improve on. i disagree with mr sulík that we should not get involved in this matter, because there is no worse enemy for smes than the treasury and its apparatus, which always plays the power play. i therefore fully support the rapporteur and her proposals for a series of measures that could lead to better enforcement of the late payments directive. the aim must be to create a level playing field for all companies. as this is, madam president, - please - my last speech in this parliament, i would like to thank everyone with whom i have had the opportunity to work over the last 17 years, from the bureau to the interpreters.
i am aware of the position of the european investment bank, which is to invest in strategic investments in sustainable growth and, of course, in job creation. this is important for our smes, of course for the regions that are disadvantaged. in this respect, i too want to support the value of this balance, or territorial cohesion, and if we are talking about smes here, we should also say honestly that according to the annual report, 40% of the european investment bank's investments went towards smes, so in this respect, i think, that objective has been met. i would rather call for some precaution in the loans that are being made. i understand that the objective is also to increase the efficiency of lending, but in the context of volatile financial markets, i think the precautionary aspect is also important, which has not been fully mentioned here.
mr president, i see that some speakers are concerned that this regulation could be used against democracy. yes, just as the prime ministers of our countries abuse their position, their power, then the risk is undoubtedly also on a european level. but i believe that the principles of the european union must be respected and protected, both by the member states and at the level of the european union, and if there is a breach of the rules in this case, there must be instruments to enforce them. i myself have repeatedly opposed the activation of article 7 because i think it is a very strong, let's say extreme, political signal that stigmatizes the government, and the country, to a great extent. it turns out that this instrument is not sufficient to protect, for example, the budget of the european union, the rule of law. i think we have to try to set up a new protection mechanism, it's better than looking helplessly at the looting of the european budget.
mr president, mr voigt, you do not have to be silent here, and that is why i think the european parliament is important. at the european union level, we have freedom, and that's why you can call for justice for people who need it. i have to respond to my colleague sośnierz in the introduction because i couldn't believe my ears. mr. speaker, you have questioned the principle of equality, but i think you have mainly confused it with uniformity, and that is really something else. equality, it's a principle that comes from christianity first and foremost, so if you were a christian, you would know that equality is something that we have to strive for both at the national level and at the european union level. and i, of course, agree with the proposal for this rights and values program. the 'citizens and equality' to be added to the title is a proposal of our committee on culture and i also agree that this inclusion should be approved as well as the increase in the budget. the current europe for citizens programme is not sufficiently known in some countries, and that is a pity. it's underutilized. i believe that the new programme will be a new and great source of funds for quality projects, especially in the non-profit sector, and also for municipalities, for projects we call twinning between municipalities and cities, which is a very good experience in using these projects, so i support it. (the rapporteur has agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i have listened to you very carefully, mr president, and i believe that equality before the law and equality in the sense of equal rights apply to everyone. and as far as equality and equity go, i don't see the difference. i believe we should strive for equal rights, equal opportunity for all.
for the ppe group. mr president, i strongly urge the release of mehman hüseynov, who is on hunger strike in azerbaijan against injustice. he is one of the many prisoners of conscience who suffer in azerbaijani prisons. i would like to remind everyone of the case of the afghan muchtarli kidnapped by the secret services of neighboring georgia. the crackdown on regime critics by baku is not limited to its own territory. i draw attention to the expansion of the azerbaijani regime's influence beyond its borders. export of influence and pressure takes place in different ways. for example, by abduction, as in the case of muchtarli. another way of persecuting opponents of the regime is to use interpol to extradite those who have fled the regime and seek asylum and protection outside their homes. china and russia are abusing interpol more and more. interpol is resisting attempts to extradite political opponents. it relies on article 3 of its own constitution, which states that interpol does not interfere in matters of a political nature. this article was the basis on which interpol recently rejected baku's request to arrest three meps. let's look for ways to prevent the persecution of freedom of speech, thought and religion in azerbaijan. one way could be to support european ngos working in azerbaijan.
mr president, sudan would be a beautiful country if it were not ruled by a dictatorship. these are the words of the classics interpreted on this land. this is not the first time we've dealt with this country in this room. this country is really full of all kinds of injustices, and i would have to repeat every one of those injustices, and i would be here a long time if i had to mention them. religious freedom in this country is a total utopia. that there are hundreds, maybe thousands of proofs that prisoners are being tortured: we recently spoke in the european parliament about the case of czech aid worker petr jašek, who spent a year in prison. his story of how prisoners of non-muslim faith are subjected to so-called waterboarding and other torture methods is absolutely outrageous and i think we as the european union need to point out these things. in many countries, it is through dialogue with civil society and with the support of humanitarian workers that we have managed to establish that climate change has really begun to take place in these countries. unfortunately, sudan is one of the cases where we are not succeeding, and i think it is time today for the high representative of the european union to send a clear message to sudan that the european union will never tolerate the injustice that is being committed against ordinary citizens, that the european union will never tolerate any politician and officials of a country that systematically violates human rights and kills its citizens, that the european union will never support the fact that many prominent members of the sudanese regime have money in other countries. i think we should make it quite clear to other countries that sudan is the worst dictatorship in africa that is still in power, and whoever supports it is no partner for the european union.
madam president, i could not support this report in this vote, although i support the evaluation of the implementation of all trade agreements, including these, but there is one thing that bothers me, there is one element which is not new but which i cannot support for reasons of principle, and that is the consideration of introducing sanctions during the review mechanism. i think that sanctions are not an effective tool to improve implementation, of course we have to be concerned about the human rights situation in these countries or the environment, but that is not solved by sanctions, there are other tools for that, and i have always been, as vice-chairman of the committee on foreign trade, against the introduction of sanctions, against the application of sanctions, and that is why i could not support this report.
madam president, i would like to explain why i could not support this report. we are all concerned about the respect of human rights in the european union. although the countries of the european union are democratic, respect fundamental rights, we must not fall asleep in the lurch and strive to fulfil these rights. but unfortunately, this report goes much further. i simply do not agree with the recommendation to ratify the istanbul convention, because that is the sovereign right of the member states. i reject the assertion, endorsed in the report, that the denial of sexual and reproductive health and reproductive rights services, including safe and legal abortion, constitutes a form of violence against women.
madam president, i agree with the basic objective of this regulation. i would point out that the european union must have an instrument with which to sanction this system, this country, where the financial interests of the european union are threatened by systemic shortcomings in the judiciary and the public administration. i disagree with some aspects of the proposed process, but i think it's possible to work out the details in a trialogue. despite my reservations, i think it is important for the european union to have this instrument, and that is why i voted in favour of the report.
these are the issues and the moments where i regret that, as the chair, i cannot intervene on substance, but unfortunately i can’t, although i would love to.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i would like to thank colleagues for their really useful and bold interventions. as i said in my first intervention, the eu strategy will continue to be multifaceted and encompass both elements of pressure, but also a political channel through which we can contribute to a peaceful and democratic solution. we will continue to use all the instruments in the eu’s toolbox to accompany the country towards a peaceful and negotiated solution. it is a difficult journey, but it is the only way that can foster a democratic and sustainable solution to the country’s ills. of course, venezuelans – both in venezuela and abroad, where millions have sought refuge – will continue to be our key concern, and we will continue our efforts to help address their needs. democracy is about all. i would like to close by signalling once again my appreciation for your support, for your role, in keeping this important issue on the international agenda and, as always, the commission relies on your efforts and support in order to see democracy in venezuela.
thank you commissioner. i must say that, for a chair of the plenary, it is a pleasure to chair such a debate, which shows such a broad consensus. i must say that it is a very pleasant feeling. it is not always that the chair has the possibility to experience the alignment that the commissioner has spoken about. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written statements (rule 162)
in writing. – venezuelans have suffered for too long from humanitarian, political, economic and social crises and urgently need a government that represents the will of the people that can find solutions. juan guaidó has a democratic mandate, maduro does not. the recognition of guaidó as interim president of venezuela by the european parliament will be an important step in helping to solve the crisis peacefully and democratically, but we need a strong and united position on behalf of the eu as a whole if we want to remain credible defenders of human rights and democracy. i therefore call on all eu members to also recognise juan guaidó. another next logical step for the eu should be to make the targeted sanctions in place more effective in pressuring the regime; that is, by extending these sanctions to include close family members of those sanctioned and to the state-owned oil firm pdvsa. it would be a mistake for the eu to just leave the sanctions as they are now and wait passively while the situation worsens before deciding to take further action. the eu cannot fall behind on its values and principles in venezuela.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the latest developments in the cross-strait relations between china and taiwan (2019/2529(rsp)).
once again, for those who came late, we have a time problem. we have a delay, we have changed the programme and i will only have catch—the—eye on this item with a maximum of three for one political group, and then no catch—the—eye for the following debates. i have no other option. my apologies for that.
mr. chairman, china considers taiwan part of its territory. as i have come to know taiwan and its political representation, i see it as the continuation of the interwar republic of china and part of chinese civilization and culture, but not as part of the prc. in particular, unlike the prc, it is developing democracy and economic prosperity based on a market economy. this year, chinese president xi jinping has been very aggressive about the possibility of taiwan joining the prc by military force. this is intimidation from a position of strength, not a lawful act. i believe that taiwan is an example of a functioning democracy that upholds the same values as the eu and deserves our full support and recognition, as my colleagues have already mentioned. i expect the ep to support taiwan. the eu should not rely on the us all the time, but must start to fulfil its international role.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, this has been a very useful exchange and i thank my dear colleagues for their interventions. from this debate i conclude that we all maintain the eu’s ‘one china’ policy and, at the same time, we share the common commitment to continuing to develop our relations with taiwan, as defined by the eu strategy on china of 2016. in this regard, we definitely need to foster our engagement to make sure the status quo remains the norm in the taiwan strait. may i close by stressing my appreciation of parliament’s role in putting this important issue on the international agenda of the eu.
the debate is closed. i will utilise the half-minute before commissioner malmström takes her seat in the front row just to once again reiterate that, for time reasons, there will be no catch—the—eye in the following debate or in any other during this evening. my apologies, but it is not my preference. that’s reality. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the state of the us—eu trade negotiations (2019/2530(rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, the commission is always at the disposal of parliament even if the timing of this debate has been a challenge. with the adoption of the joint statement from last july by president juncker and president trump, we entered into a new stage in our relationship with the us, our first investment and trade partner, and we identified a focused and positive trade agenda. since then, i have met with my american counterparts many times in an effort to implement the joint programme that we identified last summer. we have identified future avenues on voluntary cooperation with the us and a number of regulatory sectors of major economic importance, such as pharmaceuticals, medical devices and cybersecurity, and the progress achieved so far has been reflected in a public report that we released this morning and is available for all of you to read. we will continue to engage with the us in order to respond to the global challenges, notably the wto reform and the need to update rules to respond to the challenges posed by state capitalism. trends: trade in liquefied natural gas and soya beans are developing in line with expectations expressed in the july joint statement and have contributed to eu energy security and provided our farmers with protein at competitive prices. two weeks ago, the commission adopted two recommendations for opening negotiations, one on industrial tariffs and one on conformity assessment. the one on industrial tariffs is quite self—explanatory and it does not include agriculture, as agreed in july. the proposed mandate on conformity assessment maybe deserves a little explanation. both the eu and the us have in their respective practices of conformity assessment the purpose to ensure that manufacturers can only place a product on the market when it meets all the applicable requirements to ensure that unsafe or otherwise non—compliant products do not find their way to unsuspecting consumers. in some cases this requires mandatory third-party certification. differences in approaches to conformity assessment can result in significant additional costs without improving the safety of the products. so our aim with this recommendation for negotiations on conformity assessment is to reduce the unnecessary costs while making sure that we fully maintain our respective levels of protection. the two recommendations thereby fulfilled the commitment that we took in july. they recognise that progress with the trump administration is at this stage only possible with individual projects agreed on both sides. so i believe that the various strands of work we have initiated together through this process since july will add to a significant agenda with benefits from both sides. we can make every effort to project a positive trade agenda with the us on its own merits and also it is important not to fall back into a destructive cycle of trade restrictive measures and counter actions. at the same time, we must be very clear that any thought of going beyond the joint statement and negotiating a comprehensive and all encompassing trade agreement with the us is neither feasible nor advisable at this time. the us is also not ready to negotiate on its sensitivities, such as public procurement by american maritime services, or geographical indications. in addition, one of the important lessons that we have learnt during the ttip negotiation is that the regulatory agenda with the us is best developed in full transparency, but outside the context of fta negotiations. furthermore, there are differences in some important trade-related rule areas where opposition will be very difficult to bridge. so our efforts are more likely to bear fruit if we seek to cooperate with the us in reforming certain multilateral trade rules that are ripe for an update. we are of course remaining vigilant and we will be ready to respond firmly in case the us would no longer respect commitments given in july and would adopt further restrictive measures vis—à—vis the eu, but this scenario would not be of our choosing. i’m looking forward to the debate.
once again, for those who came later, i am afraid that for time reasons there will be no catch—the—eye either in this debate, or in any other to follow.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, yes, we do have differences with the us administration in several areas – also in the trade area. what we are doing and what was the purpose of the meeting in july was that, despite those differences, we tried to find a common agenda, a positive platform in the trade area and to avoid further escalation, which would be bad for us, for them and for the world. this was agreed in july and what we agreed upon was published immediately. what we do now is that we are respecting that agenda, and it is also following what the european council unanimously concluded in their sofia meeting in june. there was unanimity on proposing this to the us. we have been talking with the us during this six months in full transparency. i have many times in the european parliament committee on international trade (inta) to report on this, and as i said, the full report on what has been discussed in all areas here has been online since this morning – you can read it. what we are asking the council for is two mandates: one on conformity assessment and one on industrial goods. it is industrial goods, all industrial goods including the car sector and fisheries, that are included here. it is common in the wto context that you include fisheries and industrial goods together, and it makes for a wto-compliant agreement. this is all and there is nothing else; there’s nothing hidden. this is what we propose. nothing more, nothing less. this is not a free trade negotiation that we are proposing. a full fta would, of course, include everything that you have mentioned – difficult issues for the us on public procurement, on geographical indications, on maritime services – difficult issues for us on agriculture, and a few other things. these things are not included. and furthermore, we would, of course, have urged our partner to be a signatory to the paris agreement. but this is not a free trade agreement. it’s very limited, albeit beneficial for us and for them. we’re talking about billions of euros from both sides if we were to eliminate tariffs on this. that is why the mandate is short, because this is what it is: nothing else. it is also clear that this agreement cannot be concluded unless there is a solution to the steel and aluminium issue. the tariffs have to be gone, as was said here, and it would not go ahead if the us imposed other tariffs, as is being discussed right now. so this is also clear and it is also reflected in the mandate. that was not funny, that is very serious. so this is something that would be good for mutual trade relations for our business and our consumers, and i can promise you that i will continue to keep you fully informed on where we are going on this. but what you see is exactly what there is. there is no hidden agenda here.
thank you, commissioner, for being with us at short notice. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by fredrick federley, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the implementation and functioning of the .eu top level domain name and repealing regulation (ec) no 733/2002 and commission regulation (ec) no 874/2004 (com(2018)0231 – c8-0170/2018 – 2018/0110(cod)) (a8-0394/2018).
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for presenting a very good draft report. indeed, as far as competition is concerned, we all feel that the internal market is the fundamental focus of our values within the eu, and the open market in which we seek balance is between the various actors in that market, whether consumers or firms, of course. this link between these elements of competition takes place within a specific legal framework. that is why we cannot accept unfair competition, unfair competition and, of course, unfair competition outside the eu. i am very pleased that this report also touches on the issue of the smart village. as a member of the regi committee, i very much appreciate this and it is also crucial for me that the rapporteur deals with the issue of the sustainability of market forces, the impact of the market, i.e. their responsibility for the environment and the sustainability of these trends. so i'd like to appreciate that as well.
the european parliament has been a key player in the fight against racism and xenophobia in the european union. i think i could go over the points, but unfortunately i don't have eight minutes like you, i only have a minute and a half, so i'm just going to focus on the last point, and that's the smuggling of cigarettes. i came back to it four and three years ago, it was the subject of smuggling cigarettes from belarus to poland. there the commission took some steps in conjunction with the polish government and the problem began to be addressed. but where this problem has not started to be addressed at all is france. every day a ship arrives in marseille with smuggled cigarettes from algeria. i've pointed this out repeatedly, even my article in le monde, where i actually say how the process works. europol has repeatedly pointed this out here, olaf has repeatedly pointed this out, but france refuses to cooperate any further with olaf. the commissioner has a question for you: is it not time to stop focusing on the member states of central and eastern europe and to start systematically focusing on france? isn't it time to force france to really stop actually underestimating the trade in illegal tobacco and cigarettes? 30% of the cigarettes smuggled into france come from algeria.
mr president, i would like to thank the minister in particular for her opening statement that this issue will indeed be the subject of this congress. i think it's a good thing, and i really want to thank you for it. i think that no eu citizen should feel isolated, left out somewhere. social cohesion is one of our fundamental themes, it appears in a number of primary law documents. for us, poverty, social deprivation, lack of education, and discrimination are all completely unacceptable. from this point of view, i would like to support the aspects that my colleagues have also discussed here in the field of roma integration. i know a lot of roma people who i think meet our expectations of being orderly people, but on the other hand i know people who break all the rules in the roma community. i agree with mr selimovic that we need to add to the implementation first. as for the communication on the lety camp, i want to say that the problem has been solved in the czech republic, i firmly hope so, and those who spoke unacceptably are also prosecuted for this camp. this includes some members of parliament. czech justice works.
mr president, i would first like to say, as a member of the ppe group, that it is not very clear to me either why we should vote in a non-transparent way on this issue and on transparency. i think that either we have a certain opinion and we're able to take it and declare it publicly in front of the public or we then hide behind a secret ballot. i definitely want to vote on this matter publicly. i would also like to comment on what mr corbett said about the question of reporters and their reporting of the contacts they are supposed to have with lobbyists. i think the amendment that's being proposed - that means they have to report these lobbying contacts - is right. i just want to point out that the scheduled meeting, i suppose the calendar meeting, should perhaps be better illuminated. i can also imagine a situation where someone would put a specific situation on a member of parliament, i.e. that it would have a certain effect, it would seem that such an action was planned, and then he would be publicly trampled, for example. these can be very politically sensitive things, and i think it's good to clarify that.
mr president, i would like to welcome the commission's initiative in combating the dissemination of dangerous terrorist content on the internet. i really welcome this initiative, i think the commission can also act much more effectively and efficiently and it has my full support on such a serious subject. but i wonder how the legislation responds to what precedes this dissemination of terrorist content, that is to say, to hateful ideologies, to dangerous expressions that are reflected or originate in religion, in political ideologies. in the czech republic, we have a specific case, a pensioner who has been illegally convicted, who cut down trees on the railway tracks and presented these terrorist acts as acts of muslims. i think that's exactly the kind of radicalization that's dangerous and that's what it was, reflected in his support for the extremist parliamentary faction in the czech republic. i think we need to focus not just on the spread of terrorist content on the internet, but on the causes, the underlying causes. i would very much like to see these issues addressed.
mr president, today we celebrated international holocaust remembrance day. allow me to give this speech in memory of my grandparents, who survived the concentration camp in terezin. it is an important time to recognise the still-present issue of anti-semitism in europe. on 30 january – this day – in 1933, adolph hitler took power in germany, in silence and without protests from democratic forces. nobody could imagine where his populism would eventually lead. anti-semitism was deeply rooted in europe at that time and it has not disappeared yet. since 2013, almost 90% of the jewish communities in europe say that anti-semitism has increased. almost 40% of them state that they have considered emigrating. therefore, hatred against jews and racist prejudice belong not just to the past: jewish people, like other minorities, face them every day in various, and sometimes hidden, forms. honourable members, the european union’s key values are humanity, dignity and respect for everyone. the european union is a true home for the jewish people.
mr president, we live in a time and in a society where no one doubts the equality of women and men, yet we see that the representation of women in important positions does not correspond to the fact that they make up one half of the population. indeed, the representation of women on the boards of large listed companies is surprisingly low. the european average is 23%, and in some countries, such as the czech republic, it is only 9%. even though women are getting the same education, even today more than half of the university graduates are women, they certainly have the same ambitions, they are equally capable, yet women are missing in these decision-making bodies. it is also because women have their indispensable role as mothers and caregivers. they're entering the professional arena later. no quotas by themselves will allow women to accelerate their careers. it will help women to improve the conditions for them to be mothers and at the same time to develop their professional careers. i think it is very important that the council should instead look at the adoption of a directive on reconciling parental and professional life and that we should reach a consensus on the application of this directive by the member states. i would like to ask the members who are calling for the adoption of a directive what is preventing their member states from adopting this measure in their national sphere of competence? for example, my spanish colleague says: 'approve the directive', because spain has already unblocked the council. well, colleague, it's no problem for your progressive government to adopt such a regulation in its jurisdiction. i think there is nothing at the level of the member states to prevent this. i would like to call on the european commission and public administrations to lead by example and promote women to senior positions.
madam chairman, i voted in favor of this motion. i'd like to explain my vote on the offensive speech and follow up on my colleague sośnierz. i personally voted against this motion, that is to say, in favour of respecting the greater freedom of expression of members. but that doesn't mean that i think that you should use offensive language. on the other hand, i want to respect the opinion expressed by the european court of justice, even if i do not agree with it completely. mr. sośnierz has been here to take over for mr. mikke. we have heard so many insults from this gentleman. it seems that we will have to be somewhat more resistant to these statements, which is why i did not support this particular amendment. we're going to have to be more resilient, but i think we should speak decently in this chamber. otherwise, i welcome the adoption of the amendments that have been put forward, and i think that as far as lobbying is concerned, it is good to curb it.
madam president, sound public expenditure reporting and the protection of the eu's financial interests these words are not just empty phrases. on the contrary, our important mission is to carefully oversee the proper and efficient use of all eu citizens' money in order to strengthen citizens' trust. i come from the czech republic, and suspicion of misuse of european funds, unfortunately, reaches us all the way to the highest levels of politics. i am therefore aware of the importance of the fight against fraud, which we must continue to pursue, despite the encouraging fact that there is an overall improvement and a decrease in the number of fraud and irregularities. that is why i supported this report.
madam president, i have supported this report because i want first of all to appreciate the developments which have meant that there has been less fraud and less irregularity in the handling of european money. i think that's a very positive trend, although sometimes this percentage in this year-over-year comparison is going down and sometimes it's going up a little bit, so this trend is positive. we need to motivate the judiciary to handle all cases on a first-come, first-served basis. i would also like to comment on and appreciate the amendment which in this report highlights the role of investigative journalism. we have tragic cases from malta, from slovakia. i would like to draw attention to the particular risk of the interconnection of political, economic and media power. we are witnessing this in the czech republic as well. when these components come together, the democratic brakes are off. i think that is something that european law should also bear in mind.
madam president, i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation on the .eu domain. it may seem more of a technical issue, but there is a clear overlap in promoting the eu's visual identity across member states and across the entire online environment across borders. the european parliament has also adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. i also agree that the domain should be extended to the whole of the european economic area, because economic integration is great and desirable in this area. this is in the interests of both the eu and the member states' economic growth.
madam president, i would like to explain my vote in favour of this draft report. we agreed yesterday in the debate on this report that the text has undergone very significant positive changes compared with previous years, so i wanted to appreciate this and at the same time stress that the internal market and competition are really at the heart of our considerations. of course, the market that is open, where both market forces and consumer protection are involved, where we want to avoid unfair competition. so all of this i think the report hits very well, but also - and this is very important to me - it speaks to the idea that markets must be environmentally friendly. i really appreciate that, the environmental aspect. the sustainability of our market forces in the long run, that's really very important. we cannot go on with the 'after we have flooded' principle and i really appreciate this report and that is why i supported it.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the czech authorities are not the only ones who issued security warnings concerning certain technologies, especially in the area of data mobile telephonics. i guess there are more such european governments and it is a good time to discuss whether there shouldn’t be some kind of concentrated european action on how to ensure the security of our key infrastructure. at the same time, we should take a closer look at the development of the market, the high penetration of some firms and possible implications for the future of european markets.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank colleagues for the debate. we fully understand the challenges linked to the conservation of large carnivores and i am convinced that, through a collective effort if we all play our role, we can help rural communities to further develop in coexistence with large carnivores. the commission is maintaining its promises. many of the actions in the action plan for nature have already been delivered and all the others are under preparation. i am confident that, by the end of this year, the full set of actions promised will be delivered as planned. we are willing to continue helping the national authorities and other relevant stakeholders with financial support, guidance, exchange of information and good practices, but again it is for the relevant national authorities to decide, in line with the european legislation, on the specific measures or approach that are most appropriate in each regional context.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by ramón jáuregui atondo, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the state of the debate on the future of europe (2018/2094(ini)) (a8-0427/2018).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is very fitting that in recent years the european parliament has become a forum for discussion on the future of the european union, with the speakers being the prime ministers and representatives of the member states. i am very sorry that the czech prime minister, andrej babiš, refused to attend the january plenary, and that he did not actually use the invitation to share his vision for the future of the european union. the report we are discussing and voting on says that the way forward is differentiated integration and political union. i think it is true that some challenges, in particular the challenge of defence and the external and internal security of citizens, require a strengthening of the common competences. on the other hand, i call for greater respect for subsidiarity and for stopping the flight from integration at any cost. let's learn from brexit.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by thanking the rapporteur for this timely and highly relevant report. we have to be clear that when we discuss the future of europe we discuss whether and how we want the european union to reaffirm its future in the world. if we want our union to stay an actor in global politics in the 21st century, to maintain our economic strength, to defend our interests, and to shape foreign policy by projecting our european values of democracy, freedom, openness, solidarity, the rule of law and fundamental rights, then we have to do all what is necessary so that europe has the internal legitimacy, capacity and means to do that. at his state of the union address in this house in september last year, president juncker presented to you his priorities and outlined his vision for how the european union could devolve by 2025. on the same occasion, he presented a roadmap for a more united, stronger and more democratic union. in particular, he called for confirming the process of the so-called spitzenkandidaten at european level, completing the governance of the euro area, and for a modern and values-based european budget for the coming years. in the longer run, the commission’s take on the future of europe is that we do not exclude treaty change. today, however, we must not discuss treaty change but focus on concrete policies and on the immediate concerns of our citizens. this is what we are doing. the commission has by now fully delivered on all the proposals needed to address its priorities. together with you, the members of the european parliament, and the 28 member states, we have adopted over the last four years, around 250 ambitious legal acts in the areas of investments in the real economy, the digital union, energy union, capital markets union, internal and cybersecurity, border protection, defence, economic and monetary union, trade, research and innovation, climate change, social solidarity, youth and employment. we are thus delivering concrete results that are to the benefit of all european citizens. as we meet today, our three institutions are working night and day to conclude important pending files, such as the european border and coast guard, the prevention of terrorist content online, copyright and a series of contingency measures to mitigate the negative consequences of brexit before the next elections. it is in all our interests to give it one last push and our joint efforts are already bearing fruit. the european union is in the sixth consecutive year of economic growth. 239 million people in the european union are currently in jobs. this is the highest number ever. with this, the european union is on course to meet its europe 2020 target of a 75% employment rate by 2020. youth unemployment has fallen, down from 25% in 2013 to 15% overall, but remains far too high in some of our member states. the eu is defending a rule and values-based multilateral order as just confirmed by the partnership agreements with japan, which has just entered into force and which will generate new opportunities and growth both for europeans and our partners. these results should inspire us to not let up because the task of building a more secure, sustainable and more prosperous and fairer europe is far from over. steadying a confident and collective european course is the best response we can give to rising forces of illiberalism, nationalism and xenophobia and to fears of rising trade conflicts. on may 9 this year, just a few days before the elections to the european parliament, the leaders of the european union will meet at a summit in sibiu, romania, to reaffirm to european citizens and to the world, their commitment to a united, strong and democratic future of europe at 27. let us use this and any other opportunity to send strong and positive messages to our citizens. let us not allow the doomsayers to weaken or paralyze our union. let us convince our citizens, so that at the next elections they will want to vote for a positive agenda, for stability, freedom and prosperity, for a union that is united, strong and democratic.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 13 february 2019. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is a short presentation of the report by ashley fox, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on a comprehensive european industrial policy on artificial intelligence and robotics (2018/2088(ini)) (a8—0019/2019).
mr president, mr rapporteur, mr commissioner, europe has undeniable potential in the development of artificial intelligence. however, it also raises a number of issues related to impacts that have not yet been addressed by national or eu legislation. some member states are therefore trying to adopt their own legislation to regulate autonomous robots. i think it is important that the european union responds together at eu level by harmonising the rules. the member states should work together on ai, because we face the same challenges, the same risks and together we face competition, especially from china and america. but it is not just about competitiveness, it is also about the safety of the citizens of the european union, because ai brings progress but also brings great security challenges, which is why i welcome the coordination plan for ai that the commission presented in december. i think we need to act fast.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr fox, and the shadow rapporteurs, as well as the associated committees, for the very good report on a comprehensive european industrial policy on artificial intelligence and robotics. ai and robotics have great benefits to offer to improve quality of life. for example, precision farming promises to drastically reduce the need for pesticides and ai can also help to greatly improve cancer treatments and save lives thanks to early diagnostics. we welcome in particular that the report addresses all the key aspects, namely, that it is essential to ensure the eu's competitiveness by boosting its research and industrial capacity in ai and to promote the uptake of ai across the economy. that it is necessary to prepare for the socio-economic changes brought about by ai, in particular regarding skills, jobs and social protection. and that we have to ensure an appropriate ethical and legal framework based on the union's values and in line with the charter of fundamental rights of the eu. the commission is very pleased that parliament shares their vision on the development and deployment of human-centric ai and acknowledges the importance of achieving ethical and trustworthy artificial intelligence – the trademark for ai made in europe. concerted eu action is also essential to avoid the fragmentation of the overall legal and ethical framework, and it is important that all stakeholders are represented in the process. i am glad to know that we share the understanding that without sufficient funding, europe will not be able to regain leadership in ai. increased funding will be of crucial importance to the digital europe programme and horizon europe, accompanied by the development of a public-private partnership in ai. we should make every effort to realise the promise potentially illustrated in the report for important sectors such as healthcare, energy, transport, agri- food, cyber-security and in the public sector, increasing productivity and competitiveness as well as quality of life at work and at home. the commission appointed a high-level expert group on ai to draft ethics guidelines covering issues such as fairness, safety, transparency, democracy, personal data protection, dignity, consumer protection and non-discrimination. the group should finalise its work in the course of march, and the guidelines are expected to be published in early april. it is encouraging to see the support of parliament to build on this work for an inclusive and ethical development in the use of ai. parliament welcomes the creation of the expert group on liability and new technologies. while you regret that no legislative proposal was put forward during this legislature, you will understand that the substance is very complex. that is why the commission will put forward a report in early summer outlining the broader implications for potential gaps in, and orientations for, the liability and safety frameworks for ai. we have to build on our own strengths and support the european entrepreneurial spirit. we must be fully engaged and ensure broader and easier access to services for citizens and industry and address socio-economic and legal issues, building on european values. a united and value-based approach to ai will make the european union a leader in ai and help promote ethical principles worldwide. and this concerted effort is necessary to ensure that european citizens and the economy can reap the benefits such technology has to offer. in conclusion, the european parliament is uniquely placed in this mission, in particular in informing about the benefits ai can bring while carefully addressing the risks. the commission is delighted that it can count on the support of parliament to actively contribute to developing and implementing the comprehensive european industrial policy on ai and robotics. ai can improve quality of lives, greatly contribute to our economic growth and our environmental sustainability. let us not miss these opportunities.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 12 february 2019. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance (rule 163). i will underline ‘one minute’ and we will respect that time slot.
mr president, i would like to draw attention again to the situation which unfortunately is currently developing in the uk, namely the practices which are emerging in particular in relation to smugglers who smuggle people through europe to the uk. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. i want to draw attention to the case of george sagan, who was sentenced to two years in a french prison, despite the fact that the police had in no way proved that he was the one who knowingly smuggled people into the united kingdom. i would like to call on the commission to really systematically look at the cases of truck drivers, because this situation is not sustainable in the long term.
mr president, last week i saw firsthand that hundreds of refugee children are living on the streets of the european union without protection. we know from the available data that there are currently 3,792 unaccompanied children in greece, of which 7% are under 14 years old. most of them have no parents, died in the war or are missing. in greece last week, i met a six-year-old girl, zafira, from afghanistan, whose parents had both died on the journey. her story touched me, but i was glad that this little girl was the lucky one, because she is placed in a children's home in athens, where she is cared for. but they are one of the lucky exceptions, because a thousand other children remain on the streets in greece, and a thousand more are in various camps and other institutions, waiting to be reunited with relatives or to have better conditions. in this context, i repeatedly appeal to governments, including the czech government, to take care of these children.
that concludes the item.
for the s&d group. mr president, the rapporteur, mrs jytte guteland, has produced an excellent report, it is clear that parliament and the commission are doing their job, which unfortunately cannot be said of the member states. the principles of integrated plant protection have been in place since 2014, but until member states start playing their part, we will only be telling ourselves stories about what they mean and why we need to follow them. we do not want to take away the tools of plant protection from farmers, but to offer them tools that do not harm their health, our health, or the environment. the use of chemical pesticides, like the use of antibiotics, should be a last resort and not the basis of our european agriculture. in this context, i am a little sorry that the commission has not heeded parliament's call for the approval of biological and low-risk pesticides to be accelerated, which is probably not going to happen until next term. in europe today we talk a lot about security, but we put a time bomb in our country every day, a time bomb that is ticking around us and will explode sooner or later. no walls or borders can protect us from it. let's finally admit that the current way of running the economy is not sustainable in the long run. if we actively change it ourselves, it will be a controlled process that does not harm farmers, consumers or the landscape. if that happens as a result of the collapse of the ecosystem, we all suffer.
i am speaking, madam president, to explain my approach, which is clearly in favour of protecting the health of the public, but we must also think of the producers of agricultural products, for whom the use of pesticides is simply a necessity for the time being. despite the pressure to reduce the use of pesticides and to ban certain pesticides containing carcinogens, it makes sense, as demonstrated by a report from the european food safety authority, which says that 96% of samples tested complied with the permitted limits and even half of the samples did not contain any quantifiable residues. i therefore believe that it is clear that this pressure is justified and that it is justified to limit the use of the most dangerous pesticides, but that it is necessary to call for restrictions on the import of foodstuffs treated with pesticides and for a ban on the import of pesticides.
for the group gue/ngl madam president, commissioner, allow me also to thank my colleague mr belet for what i consider to be an excellent report. for certain patient groups, such as those with rare diseases, cross-border healthcare is simply the most appropriate and accessible care. i believe that the importance of sharing knowledge and resources needs to be constantly emphasised, particularly in the context of rare disease treatment. today, these problems can no longer be solved simply at national level alone, but require the involvement of the material and intellectual resources of the whole eu. more efforts are also needed in the areas of mutual recognition of prescriptions from other member states, reducing red tape and all artificial barriers to reimbursement of cross-border care, increasing the use and use of the european insurance card and, last but not least, increasing the low level of patient awareness of the possibility of receiving such care. what i also welcome in the report is the call for greater harmonisation of vaccination obligations across the eu. i believe that this is an extremely important step at a time when certain regions are increasingly ravaged by epidemics of diseases that we have wrongly thought to be eradicated. and last but not least, we also have to address the negative externalities of cross-border care. i am referring again to the so-called parallel re-export of medicines. for several years now, we have been calling on the commission and the member states to prohibit this practice, which is harming the health systems of less developed member states. and nothing happens, patients in some countries lack medicine, others buy it cheaply.
madam president, i supported this report on the strategy for the integration of the roma population. i think integration needs to be promoted, and i also agree with the main goals of integration, which are education, health, employment and housing. the european parliament has added the issue of non-discrimination, which is of course very important to find funds, projects, programmes to support the integration of roma. and also to use these resources effectively, i.e. to control the use and also to control the development of indicators. i also welcome the initiative to involve representatives of the roma minority itself in the development of national roma integration strategies. ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the integration of roma in the czech republic, i have a great deal of experience in supporting the education of roma children, i know that this is problematic, but i know that this is the main way to their successful and long-term integration.
madam president, i have supported this report and i would also like to say that i am very pleased that it has been tabled and that it has been voted on by a very substantial majority. i fully share the view that no one should feel excluded, ostracized or simply unable to make a difference. i support the goals that have been set out here, whether it's the goal of radically improving the education of the roma community, of course the issue of employment is very pressing in many states as is the issue of housing. in general, non-discrimination must be applied to every community, to every section of society. at the same time, i would like to say that this group is facing new challenges, of course, we need to connect all the actors and strategies to help this group. i think they're known, they're described. it's just a matter of getting synergies. and this group should be aware that there are not only rights but also duties that they should respect in a meaningful way and that their representatives should also lead them to do so.
madam president, the protection of human rights is one of the fundamental values on which the european union is founded. the adoption of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and its binding nature thus represents a major step by which the european union has sent a signal that the protection of human rights is and will always be the guiding principle for all institutions, bodies and member states in the application of union law. the observance of the charter must be unconditional. however, i would be very careful to interpret it as a strategic document to which the institutions' internal rules should be adapted. institutions must be transparent, but if we introduce in the name of the charter continuous human rights impact assessments, numerous training and other bureaucratic processes, then we end up as an administrative colossus in which the real meaning of the charter as a catalogue of human rights is drowned. that is why i abstained in the final vote.
madam president, i have supported this report on the sustainable use of pesticides. i agree that member states should correct their shortcomings without further delay. i agree that we should encourage research into the secondary effects of pesticides. i also support investments in research to develop safer and more affordable alternatives to current pesticides. all this is very important, as is the availability of alternatives, to maintain the competitiveness of european agriculture. as regards their use, pesticides contain components which are highly hazardous to humans and the environment. it is necessary to prohibit strictly the use of these substances, including the importation of banned pesticides into the european union from third countries.
madam president, i too supported this report and i would like to state in advance that the long-term, mass use of pesticides has been controversial for many years. it's very good that we've taken this step today, because this massive use of pesticides has a staggering impact on the environment. i've recorded a report that says that by the end of the century, virtually all insects will be gone. it's really incredible the effects that use of these substances, which are very sensitive to these organisms, and i'm not talking about the effects on humans, of course. we need to invest in research and innovation. it's our future, because this pollution of nature has really reached massive proportions. i would also like to point out that it is the environmental approach and the sustainability of the environmental approach that we should be reflecting in the other subsidy flows. we should also adapt our reform of the common agricultural policy to this. sustainability must be our long-term goal.
the question posed by the blue card. - thank you for accepting my blue card. i agree with you that turkey, president erdogan is taking advantage of the situation and attacking the kurds. they're trying to take advantage of the situation and limit the kurdish minority. but i disagree with you that the international community is responsible for this conflict. i want to ask you: how is the international community responsible for the civil war that started in 2013?
madam president, at first glance, the situation in syria seems to be stabilizing, everything will be fine, but the situation is not good at all. the country is destroyed, the regime may have won the war, but it has no legitimacy and no support from its own people. the assad regime is holding on to power by force with the help of iran and russia. hundreds of thousands of syrian refugees have nowhere to go back to, and they can't go back because they would be persecuted. if there is an offensive in idlib, it will mean another humanitarian catastrophe. the most worrying is the rise of iran, which of course is particularly worrying to israel. the good news is that isis is being wiped out. the kurds in the east are fighting them hard, with the support of the us. the eu as a whole does not intervene, but some member states are specifically involved. i don't consider individual involvement to be happy, but it's not possible yet. the eu should be much stronger in its diplomatic engagement. i agree with my colleague that the prospects for children who have nowhere to go to school are disastrous, because they are hostages of president assad.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, bosnia and herzegovina is one of the former yugoslav republics with the most complex population structure. in addition to the wide range of balkan nationalities, a distinctive religious structure has developed over the centuries. in the cities, muslims dominated, in the countryside, orthodox. a small area in the northeast of the country has traditionally been populated by catholics. so-called serbs, so-called bosnians and so-called croats all speak three dialects of a common language, regardless of religion. after a bloody war supported by outside forces, two structural units were established in the territory. one of them in the northeast republic of serbia and the other is the muslim-croatian federation. it is completely incomprehensible to me that the european union has been trying to change this situation from the beginning, despite the wishes of the people of the country. the dayton peace agreement does provide for certain procedures and it is not possible to require a change in the constitutional order as part of the negotiating conditions for any country's accession to the european union. bosnia and herzegovina has a number of problems that are far more important to the lives of the local population. first of all, it is about connecting energy networks with neighbouring countries, improving rail and road infrastructure and reaching a clear agreement on the rules of coexistence with important neighbours, in particular serbia and, as my colleague mentioned, croatia. as for the constant use of the dog's head by the leadership of the republic of serbia, the cover-up of war crimes committed by croatian and muslim forces, including the so-called srebrenica massacre, then these efforts are deeply troubling me. the european union's assistance must consist not only in constantly setting new standards but also in practical cooperation in the development of education, the economy, social and health institutions. since the report is unbalanced, i cannot support this wording.
mr president, commissioner, i am in my third term in this parliament and i remember well how long it took us to get here, because we have been living here since the last term, especially with the free trade agreement between the european union and singapore. now that we've finally successfully reached the end of the road, i think we can all congratulate ourselves on that. and it's not just that singapore is now the technological and logistical hub of the world, or at least of southeast asia, it's also that the eu is so clearly leading the way in the liberalization of world trade. it is important that after japan, another similar agreement is being approved here with singapore, and i would just like to remind you that we have another debt waiting for us, that is a similar agreement with vietnam. i want to firmly believe that we will also be able to vote on this before the end of the parliamentary term.
mr president, i too want to express my belief in trade without barriers, that is to say, free trade, which is of course based on common values. i think we share a number of common values with singapore, whether it's support for a liberal-conservative orientation of the state, the rule of law, trade that is based on fair principles. i want to commend the reporter, his negotiating team. i think that the mutual respect of both parties has found a balanced position in the negotiated agreement. and i think these are opportunities first of all for our businesses, opportunities for our citizens, of course, institutions. i don't know what other agreement would be on the table if there are repeated objections, there is no other agreement on the table, we are losing time only because of the eu institutions' action. i'm fully in favor of this motion.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me answer a few questions. public debt is excluded from this. the investment protection agreement (ipa) is very clear on excluding the eu sovereign debt restructuring from the investment protection, so here you can be calm. investor-state dispute settlement (isds) does not exist anymore in the european union. we have replaced it – very much at your demand and with your help, cooperation and push, and i thank you for that – with a new modern system that the advocate general declared perfectly compatible with eu laws. it does away with many of the flaws of isds. there are full—term arbitrators with a code of conduct, there is full transparency, there is an appeal mechanism, there are very clear limits on what can be brought to the table, and it says that states have the right to regulate. singapore is not on the list of non—cooperative jurisdictions for tax evasion. on geographical indications (gis), it is true that this still remains to be done. singapore is about to establish a register to protect the gis to which the european union countries can apply for protection of the 196 geographical indications that were on the consulting list and the free trade agreement (fta) will enter into force only when there is satisfactory compliance with this. it is true that singapore still has to ratify three ilo conventions, but hard work is ongoing inside the government of singapore and cooperation with the ilo to make sure that legislation is in compliance with these three conventions and that they are eventually ratified. as was referred to, there has been a letter from the government of singapore on this process. if – and i hope you will – this house votes strongly in favour of these agreements tomorrow, you will vote for an ambitious fta, which will be a reference for many other upcoming agreements in the asean region. you will vote in favour of an investment protection agreement that follows the approach that you have helped to shape. you will also help to frame the broader cooperation between the eu and singapore, giving our relations a solid and broad foundation in areas such as security, people—to—people contact, research etc., through the partnership and cooperation agreement and it will be the first agreement that is endorsed by this parliament following the new modern architecture. with this we are expanding the circle of friends that we are setting up with like-minded countries, countries who believe in multilateralism, countries who believe in global rules and norms, and countries who believe that we can make mutually beneficial, fair and sustainable trade agreements with friends and with whom we are contributing to shaping globalisation. thank you very much for this debate and thank you again to the two rapporteurs.
my understanding is that those colleagues who were critical and left were probably convinced in the course of the debate. i have no other explanation than that. the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 13 february 2019. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on experiencing backlash in women’s rights and gender equality in the eu, tabled by joão pimenta lopes, on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (o-000135/2018 – b8—0005/2019) (2018/2684)(rsp)).
mr. chairman, the fact is that promoting equal rights, equal opportunity is a long-term task. discrimination is unacceptable, and we should therefore support at this european level all measures that promote the position of women in society and enable them to make free choices, to have a decent maternity and to have a professional career. that is why i also support the directive proposed by the commissioner, which will allow for better reconciliation of work and family life. it's sad that this oral question has been misused to criticize conservative politics. as a member of the christian democratic party, i say that this policy protects women, protects unborn life, protects every life, therefore we should also support this policy that protects motherhood and parenthood in the interest of life.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me conclude by saying that i am grateful for the dedication and support of parliament for advancing gender equality and women’s rights. let me just react, because i know we are running late, to two speakers. first to ms matera: i am not satisfied either. i expected better or bigger progress when i started in this position of the commissioner responsible for gender equality. however, we have to be aware of the wider context we are in. somebody called this era the ‘era of anxiety’. we see a lot of uncertainty and nervousness in our society, and in such an atmosphere, people tend more to come back to old traditions and things which have somehow proved to work over the time before. so this period is not very favourable for new concepts, for new trends which will be accepted by wider society. that’s why we spoke about the results, that there is very little progress, but i wanted to mention this as one of the reasons why we have such little progress. just an illustration: recently we had one government which didn’t have any women in it, that was hungary. now, as ms blinkevičiūtė mentioned, it’s lithuania where there is no woman in the government. the people in these countries, the women in these countries, do not seem to mind, reactions are quite weak, and i believe that the people in the member states have to express what they think about this and how they feel about such inequality, about seeing that there is no woman in their government. so we have to trust the people, that they will express how they want to live. i was always against, for instance, a regulation that will order people how to combine their roles. that’s why i was happy about the work—life balance initiative, which opens up the choice, which gives the opportunity to combine roles at work and at home for working parents, for women and men. and i think that this is the way europe should continue, by offering choices, enhancing equality, not tolerating discrimination – this has to be very much emphasised – and continue the smart policy which will combine regulation where needed – but i don’t believe regulation here works too well – but campaigning, awareness—raising, funding, training and so on. the second comment from mr jurek: i know very well what i said about the istanbul convention. we respect the right of sovereign states to ratify or not to ratify the istanbul convention. i just want to repeat here that i will continue to explain some of the misunderstandings and misleading arguments which appear around the interpretation of the istanbul convention, because i think that it is important to understand what the convention is and what it isn’t. mr president, i wanted to speak briefly but, as you see, i didn’t manage it.
i have received two motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 128(5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 13 february 2019.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on policy challenges and strategies against women’s cancers and related comorbidities, by daniela aiuto, on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (o-000134/2018 – b8—0006/2019) (2018/2782(rsp).
madam president, the statistics are clear, they are unrelenting, it is simply that cancer is a killer and that in the eu up to 26% of deaths are caused by cancer. fortunately, the european union recognises the potential for cooperation between member states and has come up with a number of initiatives to address it. i would like to thank the commissioner for listing them here, and he did so with great personal interest. it's clear that he cares a lot about this and that he understands this work that he's doing for the citizens, and especially for the women. breast cancer is one of the most common cancers in the eu. it accounts for 13.4% of all cancers. in the prevention of cancer in women, healthy lifestyles, healthy diets, and of course screening and diagnosis, must be promoted. i hope that the european social fund, which will integrate the existing health programme, will also help to improve the situation.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his speech and it is clear that our whole discussion is about the reservations the eu has on this difficult subject. i think it's about prevention and promotion, lifestyle and also about helping those families that are affected. i'd like to share a story from the czech republic about lucia bittal, who was just diagnosed with cervical cancer. she was 28. i think she became a hero in the czech republic because she wasn't afraid to speak out about this issue. she said: "don't be stupid, go for a tour!" it was a campaign that was conducted in the czech republic. she's motivated thousands of women to have their cancer month prevention check-ups. i know it's a bit of a non-systemic solution, but it's a solution that can remind women of the role of prevention and the need for preventive screenings. this is a specific story from the czech republic, and i want to celebrate it here.
madam president, i too would like to stress that any technology, any innovation is welcome, but only if it is carried out within a framework of shared universal values, which i believe are also reflected in eu law, as the council representative has confirmed. i would like to emphasize that the genome editing of embryos and gametes threatens not only the individual but also his descendants with very serious harmful effects. the genetic changes would then lead to changes in all subsequent generations, as my colleague mr mikolášik has also mentioned here. moreover, this practice also seriously threatens human dignity and the modification of the hereditary germ line is also prohibited by international agreements, not only eu law. i welcome the clear statement made by commissioner jourová here. i ask: what action does the commission intend to take in view of this chinese experiment? there are still some doubts as to its guarantee that it was actually carried out as claimed. i firmly believe that the commission can also guide chinese scientists to respect these internationally valid commitments.
madam president, i would like to thank the commission for presenting this material, although i also think that it could perhaps have come a little earlier. sustainable approach is indeed a key requirement for our future. it should be reflected in all our policies and we have to acknowledge that we still have a lot of reservations, it's also a question of implementation. the ground is really burning under our feet, many people are pretending that nothing is happening yet, they still feel that the party is going on. but it's not really like that. climate change, biodiversity, emissions, of course, plastics, pollution of the oceans, these are all huge challenges. i firmly believe that the eu as a community of states is ready to face these challenges and i think that the younger generation, as mentioned earlier, is very much aware that their very future is at stake. they're calling for us to do more. and i agree with the commissioner, we only have one planet, but rather than colonize other planets, let's try to save ours.
the rapporteur of the libe committee. madam president, i always support any initiative that leads to simplification. i think we all know that the drawing up of european money is unfortunately a very complex process, often unclear, and in many member states opaque, and i think it is therefore good that we have tried to correct the errors that have repeatedly occurred in the past in connection with the drawing up of money. the emphasis is on the uniformity of rules, the harmonisation of the draw-up process for all the funds, and i welcome the introduction of synergies between the funds. at the same time, however, i would like to draw attention to the risk of double funding. as a member of the committee on budgetary control, i have repeatedly pointed out here that sometimes these programmes are duplicated. so i also want to say at the beginning of this discussion that we must not underestimate the control mechanisms. but i certainly welcome all the rules that are in this regulation and the common provision.
mr president, i wanted to speak rather positively today. i have to say, i'm a little embarrassed about the vote. i welcome the simplification that is taking place under this legislation. of course, i also accept the greater degree of flexibility, and i even supported the ecr's proposal for an even greater degree of flexibility, but i must express my discomfort that the macroeconomic conditionality has just been crossed out. if countries go into debt and then contribute european money to their budgets, i think that's not the right way to go. we must act as reasonable stewards. this bill, if it passed, i was actually considering voting against this bill. i hope the proposal changes in the trilogy. at the same time, i want to welcome the positive aspects i have mentioned, such as the 30% allocation for climate change. and also that we have been waiting for the cohesion policy not to be dropped in the budget envelope, but if it has fallen, that is a fundamental problem for me.
mr. chairman, let's be honest here. there is no debate about the future of europe here. here, the debate on the future of europe is simulated, here the debate on the future of europe is marked, and here the representatives of the european socialists, the people's party and the liberals come forward with a single narrative: more europe, more europe, more europe. if someone comes in who sees things a little differently, as the italian prime minister did yesterday, this chamber almost kicks him out, almost doesn't let him speak, and of course the european parliament then chooses what suits it best, i.e. qualified majority voting, strengthening the federalisation elements in the eu architecture, unifying foreign policy, etc. this is not the way to europe's future, and i guarantee you that you will hit a wall with this policy in the european elections in may 2019. of course, i couldn't vote for that.
the next item is the topical debate (rule 153a) on fair taxation for a just society (2019/2560(rsp)). i should like to inform members that this debate does not include time for the catch—the—eye procedure and that no blue cards will accepted.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, commissioner, first of all i must say that i am extremely disappointed with the current situation. the version of the document we voted on is itself rather weak. and the proposal focuses purely on clinical trials. there was a dismissal of both economic, social and ethical aspects. we also anchored an extremely long transition period, after which member states will not have to participate in the system at all. our joint medical device assessment solution is essentially a covert removal of medical devices from the system. but even this obviously comes at too low a cost to the member states. i am also beginning to doubt whether there is any point in discussing this proposal further, because if it were to be weakened further by the member states, it would probably be better to stick to the current voluntary cooperation. and yet, european patients are desperate for this new regulation, and they are also outraged by our delaying mandatory testing for years. patient organisations rightly expect to be more involved in the evaluation process. it is also essential to implement as soon as possible the exceptions we have adopted for faster access to medicines for rare diseases, as the successful fight against rare diseases is essentially a cross-border issue. the member states, led by the austrian and romanian presidencies, should be ashamed of themselves. we have no choice but to move the necessary document to a new era, which is a shame.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would never have expected the greens to provide a helping hand! (laughter)in any case, in accordance with article 59, i would like to ask the house to agree to referral to the committee for interinstitutional negotiations.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank all my colleagues for their strong support and, in accordance with rule 59(4), i would like to request referral back to the committee to enter into interinstitutional negotiations.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i agree that this is an important piece of legislation, which addresses some of the concerns currently related to investments coming to sensitive sectors in europe. these concerns exist, various member states face them and i am convinced that we can now bring a new instrument to our toolbox in this area. for instance, if we had this regulation in place today, we could have come up with a more coordinated approach to some of the chinese companies, huawei for instance. personally, i value in this legislation the exchange of information between respective stakeholders in the member states. some of the potentially problematic investments could come to several countries, and it would be beneficial to share information on them. it remains on a voluntary basis to set up a screening mechanism at a national level, but there is no doubt that there are good reasons to control investments coming to very sensitive areas such as critical infrastructure, defence and the security industry, but also the media or – very topical now – telecommunications and new digital technologies, such as artificial intelligence. the eu needs to remain open to foreign investment. it has always been a source of our economic growth. through the process of negotiating this regulation, i emphasise that this is by no means a protectionist tool, but a guarantee for the eu to face those investments where economic goals are not a primary consideration, a sort of warning in the same way that we need trade, defence or anti-dumping legislation. they are triggered only when a threat is identified. i believe this regulation will prove useful and functional once applied.
mr president, we must be aware of the risks that some direct strategic investments may entail. it is a matter of concern to the whole of the european union, and that is why i support this regulation. it is well known that some countries - and china was mentioned here - are trying to control key sectors in individual countries, to gain influence, to acquire know-how of strategic importance, even, i believe, to influence policy, through their investments in state or semi-state enterprises. we in the czech republic had such a rather difficult experience with the investments of cefc, whose boss was connected to chinese military intelligence. so investment screening is a legitimate instrument for member states to use, given the need to ensure their own security, and for the eu to use it, and of course it is effective if we can use the common framework, so i thank you for it.
for the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, the revised directive on the interoperability of toll systems will make life easier for the hundreds of thousands of truck and bus drivers who cross borders in the course of their work. the introduction of a single european electronic toll service will finally allow drivers to pay their road tolls for a journey across the eu with a single device. the picture ends with a board folded into toll boxes for a journey across europe. i believe drivers will appreciate a better view from their vehicle. the agreement will also help european carriers to reduce costs. they will not have to buy equipment for different toll systems or register in different member states. it also makes money for states that have high costs of unpaid road tolls. the text will also allow for the recovery of unpaid fees from foreign drivers. i am pleased that the cooperation with the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs and the austrian presidency and the commission during the negotiations was aimed at reaching a constructive solution, and i would like to thank the s&d rapporteur for that.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, commissioner, electronic toll systems should be able to interoperate with other systems and should be based on open and public standards which are available to all system suppliers without discrimination. the system of charging for the use of land roads should be simple, fair and should not discriminate against drivers from other member states. the level of the charges should objectively reflect the degree of environmental impact of the vehicle and the state of the road. i am very pleased that the idea of one on-board unit in all member states has been successfully implemented. this eliminates the need to purchase individual short-term motorway tickets for travel within the union. although not all my requests have been incorporated into the directive on the cooperation of electronic toll systems and the facilitation of crossborder exchange of information, i consider the final result to be a reasonable compromise and on behalf of the european parliament i thank the rapporteur in particular for it.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, my thanks to you and to the honourable members for your interventions and for your cooperation and support to achieve such a good result on this proposal. i very much welcome the agreement between parliament and the council, because mutual recognition is at the core of single markets for goods. but it is still one of the most important remaining barriers. with regard to the broader questions as to whether the regulation is impacting member states’ capacity to protect legitimate public objectives, the answer is no. mutual recognition is not automatic and therefore cannot jeopardise legitimate public objectives. this is embedded in the principle itself. protection of legitimate public interests will always remain the exception to the mutual recognition law provided that it’s justified and proportionate. to conclude, with your vote tomorrow you are sending a strong and clear message about delivering on our commitment to help businesses trade in a single market. our smes will benefit and our citizens will benefit.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, eva maydell, on her strong will and ambition, ensuring that parliament could form its views quickly and effectively, which led to the text you will vote on tomorrow. we welcome parliament’s strong commitment to deepening the single market for retail financial services and payments, and to making the most of the euro, the eu’s common currency – for the benefit of citizens and businesses outside as well as inside the euro area. today, only euro-area citizens enjoy the benefits of cheap euro transactions. around 150 million europeans who live in eu countries using other currencies do not. in fact, they sometimes have to pay very high and disproportionate fees for such transactions, particularly in cross-border situations. let me give you an example. imagine that you live in italy and you wish to send eur 50 to finland. because these countries are both in the euro area, eu rules prevent banks from charging more for this transaction than they would for sending money, say, from rome to milan. now, imagine instead that you are living in bulgaria and you want to transfer the same eur 50 to finland. because domestic payments in euro in bulgaria are generally expensive, the equivalent cross-border transaction is also very expensive. for a bulgarian citizen this means he or she could end up paying as much as eur 24 for this kind of transfer. the revised cross-border payments regulation will remove this unequal treatment by extending the benefits of low-cost euro transactions across the whole eu. the regulation will ensure that, by 15 december this year, all european citizens and businesses will have the right to make cross-border payments in euros for the same price as domestic payments in their national currency. the cross-border payments regulation will positively affect the vast majority – around 80% – of cross-border transactions originating from non-euro member states and made in euros. putting an end to high fees linked to cross-border euro payments will enable consumers and businesses in non-euro member states to save around eur 900 million every year. this will also contribute to our common objective of strengthening the international role of the euro as a payments currency. the revised cross-border payments regulation will also increase the transparency of currency conversion services. this is especially important for several million europeans who travel within the eu every year, either for business or for pleasure. often, when paying by card or withdrawing cash at an atm in a country that uses a different currency from the euro, it is very difficult to know exactly how much it will cost. it is equally difficult for consumers to choose the most convenient option when they are given the choice, on the spot, between paying in their own currency or in the local currency, for example when paying a hotel bill. by harmonising the disclosure of currency conversion costs, the regulation will allow european consumers to check and compare the currency conversion charges applied by their bank or by merchants. consumers will be able to compare charges when shopping abroad with their cards, when withdrawing cash at an atm abroad and when sending money, from their own country’s banking platforms, to a member state using a different eu currency. this will boost competition between providers in such currency conversion services and should thus lower the cost of transactions between member states in different currencies. honourable members, the european project is quite often perceived as distant from the lives of european citizens. this legislative initiative is a good opportunity to demonstrate how europe can bring tangible benefits to its citizens.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, firstly, let me thank the rapporteur for her excellent work on this proposal, which is a real example of eu regulation working to cut costs and burdens, and putting the consumer first. the regulation ensures that the costs for cross-border payments in euro from one eu country to another are the same as an equivalent domestic payment, regardless of whether the countries are in the eurozone or not. furthermore, customers in the eu withdrawing money from an atm in a foreign currency will have much more clarity on the cost of their payment options. following pressure from parliament, the charges associated with credit transfers will also be made clear to consumers. from parliament’s perspective, full comparability is the ultimate goal. that means that customers should always be informed of the cost of their payments in a foreign currency within the eu. the final text of this regulation takes a significant step towards full comparability but, in my view, more can be done. therefore, i welcome the review that the commission will undertake three years after the regulation enters into force. the review should explore how costs to consumers can be reduced further and should ensure full comparability of payment options. nonetheless, customers will soon begin to reap the benefits of the new provisions, and i’m proud of the work we have done here in parliament to bring this about.
madam president, i would also like to welcome the proposal for this regulation, because it does make life much easier, not only for consumers, our citizens - 150 million, as was emphasised in this debate - but also, of course, for small and mediumsized enterprises. this is also undoubtedly a major factor in the cohesion of the member states, and this is also the main reason. i like that there are a lot of positive things that have been said here, and i like the way this discussion is being conducted in a positive spirit. on the other hand, we must say that perhaps more could have been done, so let us take this as a commitment for the next term. i personally would like to note with confidence that the czech republic will not only benefit from this adjustment, but will also, for example, join the common currency of the euro, which is my fundamental and political objective. i'm glad we're paying less, maybe we should be more transparent, but i'm glad we got this done.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work, madam president, and i would also like to make a strong point about rural areas, areas which are already suffering from a certain disadvantage. for them, this liberalization can be a very fundamental shift. we are certainly pursuing a path of competitiveness which should lead to improved service quality. in the czech republic too, we have a number of areas that are not covered by the rail network and for this reason this regulation is quite crucial for us. i want to welcome him, of course it fulfills other purposes. it is to meet the needs of citizens, especially those with lower incomes, to create new jobs. those are all positives. i also like the fact that the report has managed to protect, for example, the suburban lines, which i also consider to be worthy of recognition.
madam president, my heart has been beating for water transport for years, and i see it in some controversial projects. i would like to emphasise that inland waterways link important ports, cities and also agricultural areas, and thus make a significant contribution to the european union's objectives of reducing carbon emissions, sustainable growth and territorial cohesion. inland waterways are also crucial for further reducing the negative impacts of transport through more efficient use of land, energy and, of course, noise and accident reduction. the commissioner has already stressed that modernising the inland waterway fleet and adapting it to technical progress would give it a competitive advantage in the context of multimodal transport, and i agree with her. however, very limited funds have been allocated to this sector so far and this sector, which is mainly made up of small enterprises, still has difficult access to finance. i agree with the rapporteur that the potential of water transport is underestimated and is certainly greater, but it requires greater investment. i would therefore like to ask the commission whether the naiades ii action programme, and, if necessary, naiades iii, should not receive more adequate funding precisely to achieve its objectives, so that it is supported by a well-structured political strategy with achievable short- and medium-term objectives and a specific plan setting out, inter alia, the resources for its implementation. the waterways certainly need that.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i will exceptionally speak in my mother language, so please do use your headphones. paní předsedající, v prvé řadě bych chtěl ocenit to, co řekl pan komisař king. já jsem se v uplynulých měsících se svými spoluzpravodaji zabýval celkem podrobně legislativou o kybernetické bezpečnosti, kterou evropská komise navrhla. já si myslím, že je to podstatný posun, a je škoda, že tato problematika nevyvolávala větší zájem napříč politickým spektrem v tomto parlamentu, ale především v členských státech. to, na co jsme naráželi, je, že v členských zemích se zatím nezměnilo myšlení, to čemu říkáme mindset. já si pamatuji na jednání v rámci trialogu, jak složité bylo přesvědčit členské státy, byť k dílčím posunům. tzn. tu legislativní infrastrukturu, kterou teď vytváříme, já si myslím, že to je klíčový krok. a co potřebujeme? musíme to umět naplnit. musíme mít tu vůli, abychom to rychle transponovali, abychom vybudovali institucionální infrastrukturu. já jsem rád, že v české republice ji máme, možná ještě není na úrovni německa, británie, francie, ale je velmi kvalitní. ale to, co skutečně pokulhává, je uvědomění si na politické úrovni v členských zemích, ale zároveň schopnost domyslet ta rizika, která tady stojí. to není otázka jenom špionáže, to je otázka možná do budoucna podstatně závažnější. takže já si myslím, že toto je krok, který musíme učinit, a je škoda, jak už tady zaznělo, že česká politická reprezentace nejenomže toto torpéduje, ale prakticky je na druhé straně stolu. poslední poznámka, já oceňuji to, co řekl pan ministr. my v tuto chvíli také musíme umět chránit náš trh, ale zároveň pronikat na zahraniční trhy, tzn. tady v tomto směru je absolutní nevyváženost a reciprocita musí být naším primárním principem.
madam president, i would like to highlight first of all the speech by mr ciamba, because i really liked his speech, he highlighted the risks, he followed the precautionary principle, especially in security matters which cannot be underestimated. cybersecurity is becoming one of the key aspects. we have a problem here, first of all, with 5g technology, which is tied to a chinese company that is a really unreliable partner. and we need a european response and to have this key european infrastructure in european hands. i am almost eager to send the transcript of minister ciamba's speech to the czech government, which is relativizing the issue, and also to the czech president, who is directly the trade representative of chinese interests in the european union. i think it's good not to underestimate the subject. we're talking about risks that could really threaten data theft. i welcome the commissioner's comments on the screening of direct investments, but in this case we are talking about legislation which is not yet ready, we need a response now, a common european response, like australia's.
mr president, the protection of animals during transport is obviously a sensitive matter. i agree that meat should be transported and not live animals. but if it is necessary, then there must be strict regulations, strict standards, which the eu has, and these must be required, enforced, controlled. i am against new regulations if we do not enforce existing regulations that are sufficiently stringent. of course, increasing controls, checking at the borders, that's the solution and sanctioning those who do not comply with the appropriate conditions for the transport of animals. animals shouldn't have to suffer. i am afraid we cannot ban the transport of animals to third countries, but rather really control and require that they meet significant protection standards.
mr. chairman, being the director of the grozny memorial branch is a dangerous job. let's remember natalia estemirova, tityev's predecessor, who was murdered in 2009. tityev is awaiting a sentence that could send him to prison for ten years or more. the current chechen president kadyrov, installed by putin after the second chechen war, has established a regime of lawlessness in chechnya. in this regime, tityev and his organization, which we awarded the sakharov prize for ten years ago, are trying to protect those whose lives are being destroyed. i worked for several years as a journalist in both the first and second chechen wars. i saw the crimes committed by the 58th russian army. in the war, it killed 80,000 civilians, destroyed about 200 villages, three cities, destroyed the country's infrastructure, and expelled half the chechen nation into the diaspora. many of my friends were killed or died, including anna politkovskaya, a friend of mine who worked with me in world war ii. the kadyrov regime still worships these war crimes. the tityev movement is considered an enemy by the memorial. i am pleased that mr titjev won the vaclav havel prize last year, awarded by the czech president, and given by the council of europe. tityev must be released unconditionally.
mr president, commissioner, today we demand the immediate release of the director of the chechen office of the human rights organization memorial, ojub tityev, who is among others the recipient of the vaclav havel prize and is being held on the basis of fabricated evidence. but his release can't be the end of it. the european union must adopt a european version of the magnitsky act. none of those responsible for human rights abuses in russia and chechnya should be eligible for an entry visa or the possibility to acquire property on eu territory. it is clear that the russian and chechen authorities are not prepared to respect human rights on their territory, or those to which they have committed themselves. russia's membership of the council of europe is a bit ridiculous in this sense.
mr president, i too would like to emphasize that mr kadyrov's regime has been established in chechnya, a regime without rights, where no rights exist at all, where, on the contrary, the state protects those who violate the law and those who should be protected, the various minorities, are actively persecuted. this regime, russia holds the protective hand over it. i think that should be echoed here too, and i join the call of all of you who are calling for the release of mr tityev, who is being held completely illegally and is the recipient of both the vaclav havel and sakharov prizes. i would like to emphasize that recently - and it is not just a matter of one year - the european court of human rights has begun to strongly condemn russia for the violation of the rights of the chechens and the violation of rights on chechen territory. i think we should think about how to make these judgments more enforceable in the european area, because it cannot just be a question of money for those whose rights have been violated in this way.
mr. chairman, it appears that the mugabe regime has really only appeared to be over. the hopes that were raised by last year's events, so came the cold shower. we see the same practices, we see the suppression of legitimate protests, we see deaths, arrests, even the arrest of children. the hope that was raised last year is really fading, and we should ask ourselves, and i agree with my speakers, what can we do for the people of this state? we can ask for release, of course, but we have to combine the tools at our disposal. firstly, the economic aspects, which mr pospil has already mentioned, and secondly, the diplomatic aspects. we must ask for support from the african union. by combining these tools, i think we can achieve the effects we want, and that is a free people in a democratic zimbabwe.
author. mr president, many women and men are currently in prison in saudi arabia simply for advocating equality between women and men. for example, women in saudi arabia are still required to have male guardians, without whose consent they cannot apply for jobs or higher education. it is unacceptable for us that women are still in a subordinate position in this day and age. to some extent we can see this as a cultural issue, but with all due respect for culture and religion, we cannot turn a blind eye to the clear violations of human rights and the trampling on human dignity. as a christian, i am deeply troubled by the fact that in saudi arabia, christians are also second-class citizens and cannot practice their faith, or they are intimidated. our report gives some examples of positive developments, for example in the possibility for women to drive, to obtain a driving licence. but it's all at the cost of great suffering and imprisonment.
mr president, there is a saying, and i think it is very true: 'you can tell a tree by its fruit'. crown prince bin salman tried to create some hope, the appearance that the tree is green and will bear good fruit. and what do we see instead? what are the real fruits of reform in saudi arabia? we see murder, arrests, intolerance, discrimination, even activists being arrested for advocating for women to drive. and freedom of speech is basically zero. i think that such a state cannot be a respected, trusted partner of the eu. we have certain values that we must protect, and we cannot pretend that a state that is incapable of respecting basic democratic rights is pretending to be our trusted partner. this is not a tree that bears good fruit.
mr president, for tuesday the s&d group requests that the debate on the løkkegaard report on the accessibility … (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the s&d group requests a debate on the løkkegaard report on accessibility requirements for products and services (the accessibility act). the reasoning, or the justification, is that the proposed directive addresses disabled people’s lack of equal access to many everyday products and services. thus we request the debate because this directive is of high importance to parliament. it has been included in the joint declaration for two years because it is also an interinstitutional priority. following the outcome of the trilogue negotiations, the debate would be an opportunity for parliament to show that it is indeed committed to the rights of people with disabilities and to express our expectation that member states do much more in this area.
rapporteur. – mr president, six months have elapsed since we last gathered here to discuss the european solidarity corps 2018—2020. here we are again with an even stronger youth programme. our task was complicated by the fact that we could not rely on implementation data from the ongoing european solidarity corps as such data was not available. however, with the help of stakeholders, we were able to identify areas which could be further improved. i am also glad that all political groups maintained the same shadow rapporteurs so we could continue with our previous excellent cooperation, and i would like to thank them for this. some 332 amendments were tabled and four committees issued opinions, so there were many ideas on the table. despite this, we managed to achieve a broad majority and the final report was approved with only one vote against and one abstention. the commission proposal provides us with a budget of eur 1 260 000 000, which we endorsed. it is necessary in order to meet the objective of activities for over 350 000 participants over the course of seven years. it is also needed since the european solidarity corps will newly integrate the former eu aid volunteers programme, providing possibilities to volunteer in third countries struck by a humanitarian crisis. volunteering and humanitarian aid should enable participants to express their solidarity in more ways, and the eu to express more solidarity towards third counties. in order to be successful, the european solidarity corps needs greater visibility. during discussions with young people, i realised that most of them, even if involved in youth organisations, are still not aware of the programme, so this is where ambassadors could be of help. former participants could share their experience with other young people in schools, youth organisations and other gatherings, thus spreading awareness and encouraging others to participate. the programme should also be promoted through dynamic means such as social media. we also propose a european solidarity corps ‘infoday’, which would serve to reinforce promotion activities. in order to increase the programme’s visibility, it is also necessary to attract more organisations active in the solidarity field and encourage them to become participating organisations. we must not, however, sacrifice quality for quantity. activities must be high quality and meet the expectations and needs of young people. it is important that quality labels are differentiated too. it’s crucial to empower stakeholders. we should give them more space to engage in the implementation of the programme. we must not forget that the european solidarity corps was designed as a programme for young people. therefore, in principle, the programme should remain open to people up to the age of 30. i respect that humanitarian aid should allow participation regardless of age. however, the aim of the programme is to empower youth so other solidarity activities must stay limited to the participation of young people. we have to give greater thought to ensuring that the programme is also accessible to people with fewer opportunities. i am convinced that together we have set a very good basis for the negotiations with the council. many practical aspects of the programme will be determined through implementation, so i am also counting on the commission’s dedication and continuous support. for me, the european solidarity corps is a springboard for volunteering in the eu. i believe that volunteering should be mainstreamed through the other eu programmes. i would again like to thank all colleagues and i am looking forward to continued discussion and a successful vote.
i'm the reporter. madam president, commissioner, thank you for this debate, which i think was very fruitful. i appreciate that we were almost on the same page and i am convinced that the changes that parliament is proposing will improve the programme. i hope that the council will welcome them as favourably and that we will reach an ambitious agreement. we all want the european solidarity corps to provide quality activities for volunteers and for former participants to continue to engage in these volunteering activities. this european programme can give rise to new commitments, new knowledge and new experiences for thousands of citizens, young people. i hope that solidarity will not only empower the beneficiaries of the activities, but also the volunteers and, ultimately, society. this is an opportunity for citizens to seize, but also for society as a whole. solidarity should not be seen as a luxury product, but as a whole that each of us should at least try to include in our lives. i believe that this programme brings us closer to achieving that objective. thank you very much for your cooperation.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i shall start by thanking my colleague angelika niebler especially, but also colleagues peter kouroumbashev and nicola danti, for the excellent cooperation during those late hours. i think i will not be revealing any secrets if i say that cyber-attacks and cybersecurity are very high on the list of concerns of our public. and rightly so: we are still vulnerable, and today we are vulnerable against attacks which can lead to the disclosure of data and other serious issues, but which are still manageable. tomorrow – and i don’t even want to say it – we could see a serious threat that could concern our health, our security and our safety in broader terms. i believe that what we have managed to achieve with the cybersecurity act, as well as with strengthening enisa, is the right response. of course, we can always have a debate on whether it is sufficient or not. well this is what was feasible on the day we were finalising negotiations with the council. i need to say i would appreciate it if some member states would understand better that we are as strong or as weak as the weakest part of the chain. i think that apart from the cybersecurity act and enisa we need a change of mind-set, and that is why i would like to draw attention also to the latest statement by president macron, also seconded yesterday by the leader of cdu/csu, when talking about cybersecurity and also a european agency for the protection of democracies. of course these are different issues but they are heading in the right direction. i think we have a basis on which we can build and i will hold president macron to his word in future developments as we need to develop them a bit further.
for the group gue/ngl. madam president, cybersecurity has been a very topical issue in the last few years. in august 2017, the european commission prepared the first package on this topic, which strengthens enisa. the report under discussion seeks to strengthen the network of national coordination centres. these competence centres shall develop the corresponding parts of the digital europe and horizon europe directives by allocating grants and support. the competence centres are expected to coordinate and facilitate the work of the network of the entire cybersecurity community. i support the rapporteur's interest in strengthening the security of free and open source software, as its vulnerability can threaten the functioning of the internet and related services. the centres should promote the resilience and integrity of network and information systems. it should not focus on dual-use and possibly military-use technologies. in accordance with the treaties, this division must be respected. that is why this section is defined in the report and is a key issue for us to decide whether to support the report under discussion.
mr president, by adopting the first ever pan-european law that will significantly protect farmers and small businesses from the unfair practices of big players, we are successfully concluding the efforts that we started here in parliament with colleagues czesak and mcguinness in 2016. the near impossible has been achieved. in less than three years from the peak, build a tool that will end last-minute cancellations, unilateral contract changes, or deferred payments. the weaker party will no longer have to fear retaliation because of the confidentiality, and supervisory authorities will now have to cooperate across member states. the bargaining positions of the players in the food chain are unmatched. but this bill will do a lot to establish fair and transparent relationships between manufacturers, suppliers and distributors, so i thank everyone who helped pass it.
in writing. i support this proposal as i agree with the prohibition of unfair trading practices by retail chains against agricultural and food producers. fraudulent practices such as late payment for perishable food, last-minute cancellations of orders or unilateral changes to contract terms cause significant financial problems for small producers. in this context, it is important to mention the figures from the european parliamentary research service (eprs) study of september 2018, which states that on average, european farmers receive only around 20% and processors around 28% of the total value of food. the rest, more than half, is then given to the merchants themselves. this situation reflects the unequal position of these operators within the food chain. this legislative measure thus aims to improve the conditions of those who are the weakest in the food chain, namely small and medium-sized food and agricultural enterprises. although the measures introduced by this directive are not, in my view, self-sustaining, there can be no doubt that they are moving in the right direction.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. – mr president, as a rapporteur for the committee on development (deve), i have been fully supportive of this voluntary partnership agreement (vpa) between eu and vietnam. this is necessary, useful and innovative in its mechanism and logic. we know that vietnam is a major exporter of timber products to the eu and to other countries in the region around vietnam, like japan and china, and this vpa will act in the future as an effective instrument to fight against illegal trade and to promote sustainable trade in timber products. however, let me stress one thing. i am happy about the conclusion of this particular treaty, but on the other hand, i remain worried about its sister file, the eu-vietnam free trade agreement, for which i am ep standing rapporteur. we have delays, obstacles and procedural complications and i would like to urge the commission to try to push the romanian presidency a little bit to move this treaty further on so that we can vote on it before the elections in may.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would again like to thank the european parliament for its vital contribution to this reform of the european citizens’ initiative. it is a major step forward for encouraging citizen participation in the democratic life of the european union. throughout this mandate, the commission has shown that when an initiative is successful, we give it all the political attention that it deserves. citizens’ initiatives now have a very real impact on eu policies and legislation. europeans will now have an easily accessible and user—friendly tool at their disposal to ask the eu institutions directly to act on the issues that they care about. the revised european citizens’ initiative regulation will make it easier for them to make to themselves heard.
the committee on budgets mr president, i thank all the members who took part in this very interesting discussion. our colleague terricabras has summed up remarkably both the added value of this reform and the few concerns that have been expressed here and there. i would say to vice-president castaldo that there is actually a misunderstanding about the centralised system at the commission, because this system was considered and accepted in the trilogue, precisely at the request of the candidates for the launch of the citizens' initiative, who absolutely wanted to ensure perfect equality between them. it will be easy to verify that this centralisation is purely technical and that it guarantees free of charge, political neutrality and equality between all the initiators of citizens' initiatives. i would remind you that once there is an agreement in the trilogue, no amendment is politically acceptable without having to start from scratch. if that were the case, the matter would be referred to the next parliament and the next commission, and we would keep the citizens waiting for several more years. we cannot imagine a european parliament which, for five years, has adopted dozens of pieces of legislation, except for one which aims to give new power to the citizens!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 12 march 2019.
the next item is the debate on the report by sandra kalniete, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the state of eu-russia political relations (a8-0073/2019) (2018/2158(ini)). i would like to inform you that during this debate there will be no catch-the-eye and no blue-card procedure.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the honourable members for their interventions. from this debate, i conclude that we all share a common interest in retaining a united and realistic approach towards russia. we will continue to look at how best to use all the instruments available to us in strengthening our own resilience, supporting our partners, continuing political exchanges in selected issues and supporting russian civil society, human rights and democracy, and people-to-people contacts. may i close by signalling once again my appreciation of parliament’s role in keeping this important issue on the agenda.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 12 march 2019. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is a short presentation of the report by soraya post, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on building eu capacity on conflict prevention and mediation (a8-0075/2019) (2018/2159(ini)).
member of the commission. – mr president i would like to warmly welcome the report on building eu capacity on conflict prevention and mediation. as rapporteur post rightly points out, conflict prevention and mediation are core issues of our daily work, which we are actively prioritising as also spelled out in our global strategy. today the eu is involved in some 40 mediation and ilo processes worldwide and in some of them the eu is in the lead and its efforts is clearly visible. in other cases, and deliberately so, we are working more discreetly. in response to the impact of conflicts on our societies, we need to redouble our conflict-prevention efforts and to enhance mediation as a first response to tensions. conflict prevention and mediation is an important priority for the european external action service (eeas). the ongoing work has, for example, entailed active participation by the eu in the international mediation efforts accompanying the ongoing peace process in mali. we are also building the capacity of parties in conflict to move towards peace in the central african republic. one further example is our support for women mediators who work at the front lines in yemen and syria to play a meaningful role in helping to make peace a reality. at the same time, we work very closely with our regional partners such as the united nations, the african union, the osce and others, by supporting their mediation work. as conflicts around the world increase both in number and complexity, we need more than ever to cooperate and complement each other. we also regularly convene meetings with the member states and invite the european parliament to share our insights and enhance our collective work by creating a common approach on mediation. as part of planning to enhance eeas mediation capacities, an internal pool of mediators which can be deployed on behalf of the eu is being set up. furthermore, a high-level interinstitutional and mediation taskforce – which should provide guidance for high-profile mediation assignments, risk assessments and enhanced cooperation – is being launched. it is sometimes difficult to demonstrate the success of mediation and conflict prevention activities that are often conducted discreetly. the demand for mediation and conflict prevention has risen exponentially and the mediation field is developing fast in response to the changing nature of conflicts. the eu shouldn’t only want to keep up with the pace of efforts, but should want to lead in this field, and we are working hard to make this possible. i count on your support to ensure that we will have dedicated and earmarked resources in the next multiannual financial framework to further step up the eu’s role in conflict prevention and mediation. let me commend rapporteur post and all of you for this important report, which covers the pertinent issues very well. i hope that we will continue to work closely on these matters.
we will of course, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 12 march 2019. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance (rule 163).
mr. president, the czech republic and poland have been at odds for several weeks. at the start of the affair, salmonella was found in a 700-kilogramme beef consignment delivered to the czech republic. i have respect for all the member states and especially for those with whom we are in the visegrad four, and therefore i would like to shed light on the czech republic's approach. i think it's perfectly logical that the czech authorities, after the find, started checking polish beef. it was not a step we intended to embarrass our neighbor. it was just an attempt to protect himself. the citizens of the czech republic cannot eat dangerous and low-quality products. but i absolutely reject the unofficial way in which the eu has gotten involved, demanding the abolition of controls. the czech republic only requires evidence of the presence of veterinary supervision at the time of slaughter and of adequate operational hygiene during meat production. that is a perfectly rational demand, one that cannot be waived. the eu must respect our rights and protect us, and it should not deter us from doing so.
the debate is closed.
i declare closed the 2018-2019 session of the european parliament.
for the group gue/ngl mr prime minister, thank you for joining us today and i am very pleased that the voice of a central european country and the visegrad four has been heard here, as there are often very wrong ideas about these countries, including here in the european parliament. i think that the prime minister's speech today has shown us that the attempt to demonize the visegrad countries is simply not based on the truth and that these countries also have something to offer the european union and want to present their vision of the future of europe. as the prime minister is well aware, the european parliament mourned the murder of jan kuciak and his partner along with the slovak people and strongly called for the case to be resolved as soon as possible and for justice to be done. it is certain that this case has significantly affected the functioning of the slovak state and unfortunately also its position abroad. however, it should be understood that we have here a representative of a sovereign state who is concerned about the situation and continues to take further steps to ensure that the development of slovakia fulfils the democratic values on which slovakia was founded. the current slovak government has provided free lunches for primary school pupils, balanced the budget for the first time in the country's history, and radically increased salaries in public and state administration. the slovak economy is growing, unemployment is falling and wages are rising relatively rapidly and continuously. the record increase in the minimum wage is planned, which i consider to be a demonstration that slovakia has not backed down and is working on several levels to improve the quality of life in its territory. this too must be taken into account if we want to see slovakia, ladies and gentlemen, in its entirety. mr prime minister, a year ago, i appealed from this place to my colleagues in the european parliament to respect democratic control and the indivisibility of power and to let the slovak authorities, faced with an extremely difficult situation, act. i asked that the debate on the death of jan kuciak be conducted with respect for slovakia and its democratic and independent institutions. i also expressed the belief that slovakia deserves a helping hand if it asks for it, not condemnation. your speech today has reassured me that this view was correct and that slovakia has been, is and will be aware of the demands that are placed on it and is able to cope with them with dignity. but now we are in a situation where the whole european union needs a helping hand. so you too have not hesitated to come among us with your visions of helping europe in its hour of need. the debate on the future of the european union must continue, and we should be aware of this on the day of the next important brexit vote in london. i believe that the biggest problems of our time can be summed up in three points: the european commission is too powerful and, moreover, too detached from the people, the european parliament lacks the legislative initiative, and the european union is not sufficiently democratic and social. and we face the threat of climate change, which is manifested not only in extreme weather events but also in the shifting of natural belts that turn once fertile areas into arid deserts. there's a loss of fresh water, a loss of species, and melting glaciers are changing the direction of ocean currents, which is affecting the climate again. the european union itself simply needs to return its attention to the european citizens. we are now at the end of a five-year term, with the european union, or the new commission, having spent half a year looking at itself, two years talking about nothing but migration, then another two years about brexit, and the last half a year on a busy agenda, preparing for elections. he's giving the citizens a last-minute gift of cancelling the time change and hoping it will take a few percent of the nationalist vote. this is simply no longer the way to do citizen policy. and let's face it, citizens are groping in the dark about the european union and how it works. the european citizens' initiatives can be a proof of this. many of us had hoped that this instrument would bridge the gap between the citizen and the european union, but it has been a bitter disappointment and a call for reform. but it has not succeeded either, as it seems to have only succeeded in creating new constraints that would allow people to participate in european democracy, rather than removing existing problems. mr. prime minister, thank you for coming, i wish you the best of luck and i firmly believe that this debate will not be about what slovakia should do, but what we should do together as the whole european union.
mr. prime minister, you spoke about the future of europe. i want to ask you how you assess mr orbán's policy in relation to the values on which the european union is built. you spoke in connection with the visegrad four about the need for dialogue, you spoke about the ineffectiveness of nationalism. is the nationalism and populism of mr. orbán a danger for slovakia? thank you for your answer.
mr. prime minister, welcome to the european parliament, i'm glad you've presented your vision for a common european union. you must have expected to face criticism for the investigation of the murder of jan kuciak and his partner, because the murderers were found, but not those who ordered the murder. until this case is clarified, you must expect that we will not consider this case closed, because freedom of speech is a condition for a functioning democracy in the member states, but also in the european union, and we must defend the freedom of the media. slovakia knows its place in the european union and the eurozone, and no one here thinks of changing that. also, euroscepticism is not a good political program in slovakia, while in many other countries it is very flourishing. i wish slovakia to have a european labour office, as it is called for short. i think that a headquarters in slovakia would be a good example of cooperation within the european union.
mr. prime minister, my intervention will be in two parts. the first part is that i expected you to present some vision, to show us as the prime minister of slovakia, a sovereign country, that you want to reform the european union and show us how you want to reform agricultural policy. you know, you can decide where farm subsidies go. and the second thing, mr. prime minister, that i would like an answer to is that there have been several victims in slovakia mentioned here. i'd like to remember vlad the impaler. when we were in slovakia, we were supposed to meet him. he's a farmer who had lucrative estates near bratislava. when we got there, the police told us he'd committed suicide. now it turns out that vlado the fisherman was murdered. i would like to ask you whether you are also investigating these cases, whether you will really be dealing with these reports from the european parliament and whether the members of the european parliament are really causing you problems, as you have commented in connection with our visit to slovakia.
mr president, this is not the first time that our parliament has called for a global human rights sanctions regime, which would bear mr magnitsky's name, following the example of the united states, canada and other countries such as lithuania, latvia and estonia. today we have reiterated our call in the report on eu-russia relations, urging the commission and the european external action service to prepare without delay a legislative proposal for an eu-wide version of the magnitsky act, which would allow for the imposition of visa bans and targeted personal sanctions such as property and interest freezes and so on and so forth. i fully support an eu-wide mechanism that should more effectively target individuals implicated in serious human rights violations. if europe is to remain true to its values, it cannot look on with disdain at the injustice around it. our toothless response to the fabricated trials, to the torture of political prisoners, diminishes our authority and strengthens the expansionism and the audacity of authoritarian regimes.
the question posed by the blue card. madam member, i have listened to you very carefully. you talked about how the european parliament, the european union, in the deal with turkey, exchanged aid in the migration crisis for us to be silent about the unfreedom that is in turkey. but that's not true! we are not silent, the european parliament has repeatedly called for the release of political prisoners, we have had urgent reports here, our joint eu-turkey delegation in ankara has clearly called for the release of political prisoners. i ask you, do you know what we're talking about here?
thank you, colleague, i fully understand, we all have issues which are important to us, but i am afraid that the rules are the rules. i have to respect them, that is my obligation. however, you were absolutely clear in your message. thank you for your understanding.
mr president, turkey is our strategic partner on security and migration issues. we must unequivocally condemn the misuse of the fight against terrorism to persecute critics of the regime and political opposition. not so long ago, three months ago, in december, we in ankara, the joint eu-turkey delegation, again called for the release of political prisoners. on the other hand, turkish meps are keen to continue the dialogue and the possibility of participating in programmes such as erasmus and others. i am not in favour of turkey joining the european union, but i am convinced that we must use all the means at our disposal to promote civil society, human rights and political pluralism. the european parliament should use the suspension of negotiations as an impetus to set up a new form of partnership.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for all their contributions and remarks. i think we are all equally concerned about the state of eu-turkey relations and the council has already found, on the commission’s proposal, that the accession process has effectively come to a standstill and that no further chapters can be opened or closed. i believe that the best way to strengthen our relations is by remaining critically engaged with turkey and keeping channels open, and i think, unlike some others here in the plenary, that starting discussions about an upgrading of the customs union could be one of the opportunities, provided that some preconditions are fulfilled. at the same time, it is important to be crystal clear that turkey must respect the norms and values to which it has subscribed, both as a candidate country and as a member of the council of europe. we have underlined the need for ankara to take clear steps to improve the human rights situation in turkey and to fix contentious bilateral issues with eu member states, and we will continue to do so. the commission will continue to report on developments in turkey in the context of our annual enlargement package due later this spring. we will also continue to use our instruments to support a vibrant civil society and those in turkey who consider that democratic society starts with accountability and with checks and balances.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, to conclude, i wish to thank the house for the very useful debate. i have listened carefully to the views expressed and i take note that our institutions have similar assessments on a range of issues. we look forward to continuing this constructive dialogue and engagement. i can assure you that the council will continue closely to monitor developments in turkey, paying particular attention to the important issues discussed here today. the imminent 54th meeting of the eu—turkey association council, which will take place at the end of this week, on friday 15 march, will provide an excellent opportunity not only to take stock of the state of eu—turkey relations but also to reiterate our views on the challenges and the opportunities of our cooperation. we will convey to our turkish interlocutors the unequivocal message that they must urgently and effectively address the shortcomings and outstanding issues identified both by you in your report today and by the commission and the council. at the same time, i believe that all sides have much to gain from an intensified dialogue at all levels. on our side, the presidency, together with the member states and the commission, will continue to do what we can to move things forward. finally, let me thank parliament for its contribution and the rapporteur, kati piri, for her efforts in providing a comprehensive overview of developments in turkey. parliament’s role is important in the wider political process in which we operate. engaging the citizens of both turkey and the eu member states in democratic discussions remains important and is in the best interests of both turkey and the eu.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 13 march 2019.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the emergency situation in venezuela (2019/2628(rsp)).
mr. president, venezuela is on the verge of collapse. the blackout of the last few days is one of the uncontrollable cases that confirm that maduro is not the leader the country needs. he is a tyrant. it is yet another example of what venezuelans are suffering from a regime that neither represents nor respects them. the blackout is further proof that the european union cannot wait any longer. we need to expand targeted sanctions and ensure that the regime surrenders power peacefully. the european union has two options: actively support a legal, peaceful and democratic solution, such as the one proposed by juan guaidó, or sit back and watch more deaths, more crimes and more suffering until venezuela completely fails. the choice is ours. we have to respect democracy and the venezuelan constitution in our approach and this logically implies the recognition of guaidó as interim president. i hope we can welcome president guaidó to this parliament soon.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, this has been a very useful and meaningful exchange and i thank the honourable members for their contributions. eu policy towards venezuela will continue to encompass both elements of pressure and the political channels through which we can contribute to a peaceful and democratic solution. we will continue working with countries in the region and other international stakeholders, notably through the international contact group, and will use all our instruments to accompany the country towards a peaceful and negotiated solution. of course, venezuelans both in venezuela and abroad will continue to be our key concern, and we will continue our efforts to help address their needs. let me close by signalling once again my appreciation of parliament’s role in keeping this important issue on the international agenda.
i understand that one colleague was asking for the floor under the catch-the-eye procedure, but i have been informed that that was the case only the moment we started the catch-the-eye procedure. the rule is that the procedure was then closed. i am sorry, but my colleagues did not see you. i apologise but i cannot do anything about it. i will take an unusual step and give you one minute. do you want the one minute? we are running out of time. once again, for all colleagues, the rule is that in catch-the-eye you ask for the floor. you eventually get the floor, but the moment we start speaking it is closed. so, colleagues, we were right not to take that request, and in any case i did not see it. my apologies. you now have one minute. catch-the-eye procedure
thank you, colleague, the same rule applies to everyone: one minute sharp. we are behind schedule. once again, please remember what i have said about the rules on the catch-the-eye procedure. i have no other option. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the report by anna elżbieta fotyga, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on a european parliament recommendation to the council and the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy concerning taking stock of the follow-up taken by the eeas two years after the ep report on eu strategic communication to counteract propaganda against it by third parties (2018/2115(ini)) (a8—0031/2019).
mr president, mrs fotygová's report contains a total of 38 recommendations to the council and the high representative of the union. the aim of the recommendation is to combat propaganda against the european union by third parties. one of the most important recommendations in the report is hidden under point (h): to raise awareness of russia's disinformation campaigns, as they are the main source of disinformation in europe. in 2014, russian general gerasimov outlined a new kind of attack doctrine, whereby appropriately used words are more powerful than missile systems and tanks. if gerasimov is talking about words used appropriately, there is no doubt that he is referring to a lie. the lie has become the official doctrine of kremlin policy. it is high time that we in the european union realised this. to realize that we're losing the hybrid war with russia. we've lost the ability to call things by their right names. we have lost the ability to defend the european union. russia is not our ally, russia is our enemy.
for the s&d group. mr president, the availability of the everyday services and goods that most of society takes for granted can be an insurmountable obstacle to someone's daily life. the 80 million-strong disability community therefore rightly had high hopes for this regulation. the european accessibility act was not a happy one from the outset. it took over ten years to present the proposal, plus another four years of intensive negotiations. and the result? i think we're halfway there. a number of things have been achieved, and i would like to thank a number of colleagues here in the european parliament for this. in particular, in the digital field, the act will lead to the making available of selected services and goods in the field of telecommunications, payment services or the use of computers. but full participation in society means above all accessible mobility. the ability to move freely, to travel by public transport, to go to the bank or to the store. and here, in my view, the european accessibility act has fallen far short of expectations. the european parliament is sometimes criticised by citizens for making decisions that are detached from reality. but it was the member states who, unfortunately, from the outset, took a cold-blooded approach to the act, in the sense of 'just to make it less expensive' and in complete contradiction to the commitments they had previously made in the area of accessibility. but i believe that not everything can be expressed in simple numbers. for us, social democrats, the use of ordinary services and goods of citizens without discrimination on an equal basis is a basic human right and a prerequisite for full participation in society. the fight for the rights of the weak, the disabled, the elderly, all those who are not on the same starting line, therefore, for us today is far from over.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for being here. anti-money laundering, the fight against financial crime and tax fraud are among the key priorities of civilised countries in the 21st century, despite the fact that maybe mr coburn would not agree. i believe that we are civilised countries, so i believe that this is our priority, but instead of that, maybe i should say i wish it were our priority. today i feel great frustration, maybe the most frustration i have ever experienced here for some time, and this is really something. a clear majority of the member states in the council have rejected the methodology-based, relatively transparent and evidence-based list proposed by the commission and commissioner jourová, and this is really frustrating. obviously, nothing is perfect. the list was not perfect, but this could have been a good start to a good process in which we expressed our view on this very important matter. this is a really shocking result and this is putting into doubt our dedication, our principles and our self-confidence, so that’s why i kindly ask the commission to continue and i ask the council to reconsider this position and not put us into such a shameful position.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on climate change (2019/2582(rsp)). for this debate there will be no catch-the-eye procedure, and no blue-card requests will be accepted.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament for letting me take the floor to speak on behalf of the council on this vital topic. we are all aware of the scale and urgency of the challenges posed by climate change, as witnessed by the lively debates on the issue in both the council and parliament. yet, global action to fight it remains insufficient, as confirmed by the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) special report, global warming of 1.5°c. the european union is determined to lead the way in the global response to climate change. it stands firmly behind its commitment to fully implementing the paris agreement and the objective of holding the global temperature increase to well below 2°c. the eu also remains committed to maximising contributions in the fight against climate change from other relevant multilateral processes, notably in the areas of aviation and shipping. the eu is broadly on track to achieve its 2020 greenhouse gas, renewable energy and energy efficiency targets. furthermore, it has already translated into legislation its own ambitious commitments for 2030, which will enable it to achieve emission reductions of at least 40% by 2030 compared to 1990. the finalisation of the main elements of the 2030 climate and energy legislative package was the result of work which started in 2015 and recently culminated in intensive negotiations and agreement between the two co—legislators. in particular, the rules of the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) were revised to ensure the necessary emission reductions in the industrial and power sector, and ambitious, binding reduction targets for 2030 were set for all eu member states in other sectors, such as buildings, transport and waste. in the land use and forestry sector, member states have to ensure that greenhouse gas emissions on their territory do not exceed removals by sinks. combined with other sectoral policies, among others, on the deployment of renewable energy, energy efficiency, co2 emissions from cars, vans and trucks, as well as from fluorinated gases, it is estimated that these policies will have an impact on our level of achievement. in addition, robust overall governance rules were recently agreed at eu level to help ensure coherence between member states’ long-term energy and climate policy plans and to facilitate reporting on and monitoring of progress. however, we know that more needs to be done to contribute to the long-term temperature goals set in paris. in line with the paris agreement, the eu will submit a long-term strategy to the un framework convention on climate change by 2020, while calling on all other parties to submit their long-term strategies on time. with this in hand, both the european council and the european parliament invited the commission to present a proposal for a strategy for long-term eu greenhouse gas emissions reductions by early 2019, which resulted in the commission’s november 2018 communication, a clean planet for all. the council welcomes the communication and underlines the need to focus discussions on different pathways to achieve climate neutrality, in line with the paris agreement. the communication has already been discussed at the meetings of the ministers responsible for environment, energy and competitiveness, and further sectoral debates are planned to take place in the coming weeks and months. the debates held so far have highlighted the shared recognition of the need for action and of the importance of developing the eu long-term strategy in a comprehensive and holistic manner. indeed, the council believes that concerted and transformative action must extend to multiple levels of governance, with an essential role for non-state actors and regional and local governments in implementing ambitious solutions on the ground. the preparation of the eu’s long-term strategy should also take into account the integrated national energy and climate plans of member states, which in turn have to be consistent with their long—term strategies. let me recall here that the paris agreement recognises just transition as an imperative to ensuring that the consequences of climate change actions for the workforce are taken into account in regions and communities which stand to be particularly affected by them. this should be taken into account when preparing long-term low greenhouse gas emission development strategies at eu and national level. despite undeniable challenges, the transition to low—greenhouse—gas—emission and climate—resilient economies has already created – and has the potential to create – additional employment opportunities, for example, in renewable energy, construction and building renovation. technological innovations will need to be scaled up in all sectors. research, development and demonstration are expected to reduce the cost of breakthrough technologies significantly, but an enabling framework is needed to support them, and private investments need to be scaled up and the right signals provided to the markets, with the mobilisation of finance from a variety of sources. to achieve further emissions reductions, in line with the eu’s commitment to fully implementing the paris agreement, major changes will need to be made at society level in our choices, investments and consumption and production patterns for the next decades. the presidency looks forward to further discussions on the commission’s communication, including at the highest political level. the european council will discuss the topic at its meeting next week in order to provide guidance on the overall direction and political priorities. based on that guidance, the council will continue and deepen the focus of debates in order to contribute to the overall process. the council also looks forward to the high-level events planned at international level in 2019, which provide an opportunity to mobilise political will to raise global ambition, such as the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc) secretary-general’s climate summit, a race we can win. a race we must win, in september 2019.
once again, for those colleagues who arrived slightly late, no blue-card requests will be accepted, and there will be no catch-the-eye procedure.
if i may, on behalf of the president’s office and on my own behalf, i can easily imagine that once the next parliament is sitting we can have a special event here in the chamber, with young people, on climate change issues. i am sure the vast majority of us would support it, and had it been brought to the attention of the bureau i would definitively have supported it.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank all the members for their contributions, their ambition and their capacity to listen to young people. but when we speak to young people we have to put things straight on the table. to say that there has been no action from the commission on climate change during these past five years is simply not fair. in these five years more has happened on climate action than ever. we agreed in paris the first binding international climate treaty and the european union was instrumental in delivering that agreement, leading the high-ambition coalition. the first point is that we have an agreement which establishes the objectives needed to stop climate change. we have delivered all the necessary legislation, with the support of this house, which has raised the level of ambition, for sure, and i thank all the members of the parliamentary political groups for having raised ambition levels in relation to renewables, energy efficiency, sustainable mobility, and co2 targets for cars and light vans, and for heavy-duty vehicles. good work. a good job done. we are on track. and the commission framework for 2030 has review clauses. action will be enhanced, but to enhance action you need a sense of direction of travel. young people are saying that they want fast action and ambition. what the commission has proposed in this communication is that we will become climate neutral by 2050. that’s at least 10 years before what science is saying. the international panel on climate change says that climate neutrality globally will have to be achieved by 2061, and developed countries have a responsibility to act faster, i fully agree. but now we are in a situation where we have legislation and we have review clauses. it is not enough, and the next parliament and the next commission, have a huge responsibility. i expect that the ‘spitzenkandidaten’ and the political groups in the campaign will be ambitious in their electoral programmes, because if we all agree that we have to raise the level of ambition there should not be problems in the council when it comes to taking decisions supporting the 2050 climate neutrality objective. if we have that objective, the next commission will have to raise the level of ambition beforehand. that is the exercise in which we are engaged here. i expect there to be a huge debate in the campaign for the european elections – and that young people, industry and workers will be listened to, because this has to be a fair, social transition. we cannot fight climate change when there are so many people unemployed. it is impossible. we need the involvement of citizens in order to change behaviour patterns, to have electric mobility accepted, and to change the way we are using resources. and that is a revolution. i am conscious that what the commission has proposed is very ambitious. it touches all sectors of the economy. it requires structural changes that are bigger than those of the industrial revolution. it has to have the support of all our citizens. so now we have the opportunity to answer the demands of the young people, and the european council has to endorse ambitious trajectories that will be the guidelines for the policies that the next commission and the next parliament will have to agree. in the street, people are making demands, but we have to answer our young people, the workers in the automotive industries, the workers in the steel industry, the workers in the coalmines, in order to engineer a fair and social transition. the energy transition, fighting climate change, will be achieved with success if nobody is left behind – and that is our responsibility during the campaign, after the campaign and in the future.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, again let me thank the honourable members for this useful debate and for their comments, and to greet the young people in the gallery. i note that, in general, parliament and the council share many of the same aspirations and the same concerns on this topic. it is essential to reflect on how we can transform the eu’s economy in a way that ensures the best possible future for our environment, our citizens, businesses and industry. the eu has long been a front-runner on climate action and it should continue to lead by example. under the romanian presidency, the council will continue its work on all aspects of the vision presented by the commission, with a view to providing clear, coherent and focused inputs to facilitate further discussion.
i have received nine motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 123(2). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 13 march 2019. written statements (rule 162)
madam president, just one short remark on brexit. a so-called bad deal was negotiated not just by mr barnier on behalf of the commission, but also by the prime minister of the uk and the uk government. the problem, in my opinion, is not the deal, but the political crisis that is taking place in london, which has actually been supported by the activity of many people who have already spoken here today and disappeared, as usual. but let me talk about some other business at the summit. i guess it’s very important to focus on economy. after the good times, the times to come may not be so good. this could be triggered by the trade war, by brexit or by other events. it’s up to member states to consider how robust our economies are and how ready are they for an adverse economic environment, a slow-down in economic growth and possibly other implications. the second important thing for me is china. our representatives should be more assertive. they should more clearly articulate our legitimate interest and negotiate accordingly. just yesterday we talked about cybersecurity and we should know what chinese law on national security means. obviously, there are huge topics such as fair trade, climate change and chinaʼs involvement in in resolving this issue, and also human rights, and we should pay attention to those issues.
mr. chairman, i voted to make this deal. i mean, it's really important to help develop this country, because the destruction of this country is going to come back to us, and it's going to come back to us in the near future, and it's going to come back to us at home. so it's very important to me to support the institutions in afghanistan that are fighting terrorism there today, the drug industry, of course, the criminal gangs, to support not only the soldiers who are keeping at least some order there today, but also of course to help the civil administration of this country and the security forces. i think that's very important, and i think that's the kind of support that we need to give to these very proper afghan institutions to modernize the country, to bring real tangible benefits to the citizens, because these are the very tangible results that we can bring to the people of afghanistan.
mr president, i also supported this report because i believe that if europe is free of obstacles, it should not suffer obstacles for disabled people. we must remove the legal obstacles in the legislation defined in this report, of which there are many, and not create new ones. this is, of course, the fundamental freedom of europe. on the other hand, i think we must also respect the requirement of proportionality, particularly with regard to the sustainability of certain rules for smes, which is also reflected in the report. i am not sure about setting the exact same obligations for everyone, for example, the websites of smes are mentioned. this can indeed have a very profound effect on business. so we need to find the appropriate weight and proportionality of those measures. that is why i also supported this report.
mr. chairman, i will explain the asylum and migration fund. i think there's been a glitch in the system. thank you for your kindness. the migration crisis has clearly taught us that we need to look for systemic solutions both within and outside the european union, and that we need to work with third countries to tackle the root causes of illegal migration in the source countries. for this reason, it is completely illogical to limit the part of the budget that can be spent in third countries to 5%. that is why i voted for the amendments, which unfortunately were not adopted, and the 5% increase was approved. that is why i was unable to support the european parliament's position on this asylum and migration fund in the final vote.
mr president, i supported this report because i consider the schengen area and its existence to be one of the greatest achievements of the european union. therefore, financial support for border management is obviously a step in the right direction. joint border management and adequate funding are also strategic for security risks, such as the migration crisis. good border management is also a cornerstone of the security of the schengen area and of the european union as a whole. i therefore regret that the proposal to use the fund's resources to deal with the migration crisis itself was not adopted. in future, we should also focus on a system of coordinated sharing of police and customs forces within the european union. i consider this proposal a step in the right direction and that is why i supported it.
mr president, we are also faced on the european continent with disinformation, propaganda and false information. we are trying to do something about it in the european union, but the question is how we are going to do it. the european union has decided for some time to address this situation by regulating, by imposing additional obligations on those who provide server space, on those who operate social networks, and it wants to regulate, in effect, public debate on the internet. the fundamental problem is how to define what propaganda is. who's to say? it is the age-old temptation of all authoritarian and totalitarian regimes to determine, if i may say so biblically, good and evil. and it can even be said that, as a rule, the regimes that are running their own propaganda are the ones that are fighting propaganda with some kind of regulation. there is only one solution to this problem, and we've known it since the days of ancient greece. it's a free and fair discussion. it's the only way to get the truth, the only way to get rid of some propaganda. and that's why i couldn't agree to a regulation that goes against the fair debate that's trying to promote regulation.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, transatlantic trade is a cornerstone of the global trading system. our political group supports the commission’s two draft mandates, one on tariffs on industrial products and another on conformity assessments. they will not only help to de—escalate rising tensions but also, and more importantly, would bring substantial benefits to eu businesses and consumers. for instance, the elimination of high tariffs on manufactured goods, such as clothing and footwear, would open up opportunities for eu exporters and increase the international competitiveness of our industries. in addition, our smes would benefit from the elimination of duplicate testing, inspection and certification requirements that would be possible with a conformity assessment agreement. i would add, however, one crucial condition for these negotiations: they cannot be successfully concluded without the tariffs on steel and aluminium being removed. more clarity is also needed on the inclusion of the automotive sector, as it is key to ensuring world trade organisation compatibility, and on how the rules of origin will work. i believe too that the eu and the usa must both build on and learn from the four years of negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership, especially in relation to possible ‘quick wins’ on tariffs, customs facilitation, standards and regulatory cooperation. the ecr group hopes that this agreement can be the foundation to build on in years to come.
madam president, the us and european have always been natural partners. we champion common values and face common threats together. as in any relationship, there have been highs and lows. despite the occasional obstacle, the fundamental common interests of our relationship remain strong. last year was clearly a low for our trade. while responding firmly to the tariffs on steel and aluminium, the eu at the same time showed it is willing to cooperate to find solutions. the message was clear: we need to work together; we need this for our businesses and the jobs they create in europe. our markets, resources, security and citizens are highly interdependent, and this will only increase. therefore i hope this parliament will clearly support the launch of the negotiations. we can always win through negotiations, but we will only lose if we close the door to the us.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i will start by thanking jacqueline foster for being very good colleague. i have enjoyed working with her and i wish her the very best. as concerns this draft regulation, i would keep three key words in mind. one is ‘efficiency’, one is ‘complementarity’ and the third is ‘dialogue’. efficiency because finally we have an instrument of a purely trade-defence nature. the regulation will now empower the commission to investigate if there is a reason, or rather a reason-based complaint, and on its own initiative. efficiency also because the commission will not have to wait for eu airlines to be affected: it will be in a position to act if there is evidence of a so-called threat of injury, and that has been one of the key issues in the negotiations. efficiency too because we have a clear timeframe: a timeframe to investigate and a timeframe to terminate the investigation. we also have the possibility of shortening the timeframe should a matter of urgency arise. and efficiency also in the sense that the regulation provides the commission with actual means to restore fair competition through the adoption of measures of a financial or operational nature. complementarity: of course, the regulation as such would not make our industry competitive but, together with the comprehensive bilateral agreements that we are concluding, we have a whole system. an investigation, as it proceeds, can, at a given moment, feed in into the bilateral efforts to resolve a problem. and lastly dialogue: we will have a dialogue and consultation with all stakeholders in the member states concerned and that through the ‘union interest’ test. secondly, we will have a dialogue with the partners, as i have indicated, through the bilateral agreements and their mechanisms. and, finally, parliament will be informed in the course of the negotiations. so this is not protectionism. this is a good tool that we will have.
mr president, i would first of all like to thank those who initiated this question, this debate and the european parliament's resolution, namely mr salafranca and the other members who have worked on this subject. it is extremely important because what is happening in nicaragua is simply unacceptable. the situation there is starting to resemble venezuela, cuba. in short, a left-wing populist regime led by president ortega, with roots in the cold war and guerrilla warfare, has ruled for decades, corrupting the country, manipulating elections and not allowing any functioning opposition. so, at the moment, we are talking about the need to release several hundred political prisoners, opposition leaders. these people have been arrested, they are being tortured and persecuted, as are dozens of other protesters who are protesting against the war. i think it is appropriate for the european parliament to raise a strong voice against this action of the president and his repressive government. it's important to know that he has support across the political spectrum.
mr president, as has already been said here, increased mobility also brings with it problems within the european union which require our response, in this case legislative adjustment. as more and more marriages are concluded between persons of different nationalities, cross-border litigation is also increasing as a result. the practice shows that the proceedings are lengthy, the interpretations of the courts are inconsistent and this of course has an impact mainly on children who live in such insecurity. i therefore see the automatic enforcement of the judgment, the specification of the time limits, the clarification of the cooperation of the member states' authorities and the taking into account of the case-law of the court as a positive step which should contribute to a faster and more uniform procedure. the best interests of the child must be the guiding principle of all proceedings. i just want to remind you that it's in the best interest of the child that the parents don't get separated at all.
mr. chairman, arbitrary arrest, torture, prosecution, fabricated trials, this is iran today. iran holds the world record for executions per capita, which is shocking. in 2015, there were 977 executions, in 2016 there were 567 executions, in 2017 there were 507 executions, in 2018 there were 273 executions. young men and women are also executed, often in a public and notoriously drastic manner by hanging from construction cranes. the world has been rocked by the case of nasrin sotoudeh, an iranian lawyer and advocate for many opponents of the regime, especially women. in addition to her long prison sentence, she was sentenced to 148 lashes. the name of nasrin, the sakharov prize winner, is familiar. but i also want to pay homage to all those who are unjustly condemned and whose names no one knows. we are trying to name some of them in our resolution. let's call things by their real names the regime in tehran is a criminal regime.
mr. chairman, i would like to join my colleagues in condemning the regime in iran. it is indeed a regime of terror that crushes its citizens, that executes, imprisons and tortures them. any opposition to this regime is immediately punished, human rights practically do not exist. we have repeatedly focused on iran, and i think we have to stand up for free iranians who want regime change. we must support them and i would ask you, commissioner, to tell mrs mogherini that the european parliament's view is different from her view of tolerance towards the iranian regime. we are firmly opposed to the policy of this regime of terror and we would ask you, commissioner, to change the position of the european commission. the european parliament has a different view.
the author. mr president, i think the greatest asset of the european union is its principles. the principles upon which it is built and stands. that is the principle of democracy and the rule of law. and these two principles, unfortunately, guatemala has not experienced and is not experiencing, and unless something changes with the regime there, it will not experience them in the future. the international mission operating there has long been alerting to the problems of corruption, and most often corruption linked to the government and the regime. it is unthinkable that a number of human rights activists who have been highlighting the corruption of the government dictatorship in recent years have either died or mysteriously disappeared. yes, this country is poor, this country has a lot of social problems, this country is socially, i would say, divided. there is no unity, and the fact that in recent years the leaders have based their policies on nationalism and attempts to incite hatred against those who criticize them has made them feel that people are not protesting enough against the violation of human rights. we therefore want to call on the european commission and the international community to step up their efforts to change the political situation there.
mr. president, guatemala is a poor country with enormous potential, but unfortunately not much use is being made of it. i think this country has been going in the right direction, but unfortunately, it's gone off track and the situation is really getting radically worse. human rights are seriously lacking and the impunity that the commission was supposed to eradicate is once again coming to the fore. i think we have to condemn this situation, the human rights violations that i have spoken about, but also the violence against women. if mr sośnierz was talking about the increase in violence against men, i don't think that violence against men in guatemala is perpetrated by women. i don't think we can relationalize certain concepts like that. it is important that we use the tools that we have, whether it is international pressure or, of course, the economic role that we can see in european development aid. we should definitely push the authorities in guatemala.
mr president, i supported the european parliament's report on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies, particularly because we must not abandon the subject of employment. despite our economic growth, the problems in the european labour market persist. this is particularly true of the large differences in both employment and pay levels between european countries. we can also expect the possibility of some crisis, possibly an increase in unemployment. we're going to face challenges like the rise of robotics, the possible arrival of a new crisis, or possibly an aging population. that's why i think we need to think ahead. at the same time, the still high level of working poverty, which stands at 9.6%, is unacceptable to me. efforts should also be made to reduce the gender pay gap.
mr president, i supported the report on the gsp. i agree with the importance of this system as a tool to promote poverty reduction in less developed countries through international trade. i agree with the recommendation for a future revision of the current system. the area to be addressed is the status of women in countries benefiting from the gsp. i would emphasize the situation of women and also human rights. despite the fact that the system has already contributed to improving the economic status of women, many women are still discriminated against and have poor working conditions. therefore, the report also makes an important recommendation to promote and emphasise environmental protection in these countries.
the next item is the debate on the report by jeppe kofod and luděk niedermayer, on behalf of the special committee on financial crimes, tax evasion and tax avoidance, on financial crimes, tax evasion and tax avoidance (2018/212(ini)) (a8-0170/2019).
thank you, mr kofod. now, for four minutes, the second rapporteur, mr niedermayer.
rapporteur. – mr president, the report concludes the work of the special committee on financial crimes, tax evasion and tax avoidance (tax3) and includes around 300 amendments that aim to close the remaining loopholes in legislation in the area of financial crime and tax evasion, as well as to propose a solution to new issues revealed by the recent scandals and findings. we discuss not only money laundering or tax fraud, but also digitalisation, distances and growing interconnectedness. it seems that existing tax systems are not addressing this issue properly, and we are facing big problems in the area of tax collection. our report also reflects the previous revelations of the tax2 and pana committees, as well as the work done on the reports, especially the report on increased transparency of corporate taxation that i had the pleasure to prepare for parliament with anneliese dodds. since the first initiative of the parliament in this area, many things have changed. there is an improvement in transparency. we are improving the fairness of taxation and trying to simplify the tax regime and improve cooperation between the member states in the area of the exchange of information. there has been a significant improvement on a global level. i am not only talking about the bep initiative that is introducing new standards in this area globally, but also about upcoming work in the area of digital taxation. as a result of that, we are witnessing an improvement in transparency in taxation all around the world, but we should also be pushing to find good ways to modernise and strengthen tax systems in order to assure the fair collection of taxes. at the same time, we must ensure that those who pay their fair share of taxes – especially smes – are not burdened by excessive red tape and that tax collection itself is not too costly and inefficient. dramatic changes are also associated with the bigger role of digital taxation, and we must find a new concept of how to deal with the new situation in the economy. it’s a pity that the council is not able to proceed with key initiatives in this area, including the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) and digital taxation. i hope we will play a role in the global economy in an effort to find a good solution to the problems that emerge with the changes in the economy. i must say that the tax3 report is also a good example of finding agreement across the political spectrum. i am proud to be a part of finding this agreement. we don’t always agree on everything, and this is not surprising. i believe in common solutions in the areas where we cannot find solutions at the level of individual member states and their governments, but i still believe that a significant part of taxation is the sole responsibility of the member states and we should respect that, especially if it applies to the setting up of the minimum effective tax rate. i very much support the work of the oecd in this area, but i still don’t support the proposal made by members to create an 18% minimum effective tax rate. i believe that many areas in the area of taxation are within the competence of member states. but i would say that, in the majority of cases, we are able to find very strong common ground. i am glad that, after the council, in cooperation with the commission, introduced a list of non—cooperative third jurisdictions for tax purposes, the commission also looked at the eu member states and evaluated some indicators that suggest that aggressive tax planning is being facilitated by those countries. this is very important. i also very much appreciate – and i guess we all appreciate – the improved transparency in the work in the council, especially in the light of changes in the behaviour of the code of conduct group. i hope there will be a growing will among the council members to move forward on the most important issues that will improve the functionality of the single market. throughout the work of the tax3 committee, we dealt with many money—laundering issues. i regret that the commission had to open the infringement procedure as no member states transposed the fourth anti-money laundering directive properly. our legal framework is very strong to protect our financial system, but it will only work if it’s implemented properly. unfortunately, we are not moving in this direction. we also dealt with other issues, especially the issue of golden visas, where the committee strongly believed that were only very limited, if any, benefits on the side of the member states that provide this solution. that’s why, in our report, we call for golden visas and similar instruments to be banned and for an increase in transparency and due diligence requirements in the meantime before this will be fulfilled. let me finish by thanking all my colleagues who worked on this report, especially mr kofod, our co—rapporteur, and the other shadow rapporteurs. i especially appreciate the work of the staff members of our teams and the members of parliament’s secretariat.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, from the first tax scandal of this parliamentary term, the lux leaks scandal, until now, the european parliament has been the leading light in the fight against financial crime, tax evasion and tax avoidance. throughout the work of the taxe 2 and pana committees, we have consistently highlighted the issues and our recommendations for dealing with them in an effective manner. the report of the tax3 committee is the last example of this. it had overwhelming support in committee. i thank the co-rapporteurs, shadows, coordinators and all other colleagues, including staff and the secretariat. we have once again outlined our recommendations for action at eu level. the commission has been largely responsive throughout and has come up with a number of important initiatives. however, member states are not doing enough. the council has consistently dragged its heels on tax issues, and it is clear that from the perspective of the eu institutions, the council is the weakest link. without political will, there can be no quick progress. it is essential that the european council discusses these issues and finds a way forward. without this, we will be stuck on groundhog day. parliament will continue to react and investigate tax crimes within the union, but without action from eu leaders, we will remain trapped in this vicious circle. the europeans deserve better.
mr coburn, was the last sentence the question?
i sort of tried to detect the question in there, but never mind. mr tang, go ahead.
colleagues, the request i just got from mr sośnierz will be the last blue—card request i am able to take, for time reasons. a number of you have also requested the floor under the catch—the—eye procedure.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for these dynamic exchanges, for the many comments which show your interest, and more than your interest, your involvement in these matters. i believe we can be proud collectively of the progress we have made in strengthening tax justice in the european union. since 2014, we have managed to get 14 proposals adopted, including 8 against tax fraud and evasion, despite the lack of unanimity. that is more than in the last 20 years and i think we have nothing to be ashamed of. but, among the battles that remain - and there are many - because your report is very rich and because many members of parliament are doing so, i would like to defend a number of ideas which i will submit to the sagacity of those who will succeed us. first, to cut off the transfer schemes between companies within the internal market through an anti-abuse clause which i believe is absolutely necessary. secondly, the idea of a minimum taxation in the discussions within the oecd seems to me, of course, to be something that should be studied but also defended. of course, we must continue to campaign for more transparency in the tax systems of the member states - whether we call them tax havens or not - but the cause of transparency applies to all. there must be no tax black holes or countries that can be suspected of being too favourable to tax optimisation. we must of course promote a taxation system which is fair and transparent for business. for me, this naturally goes through the common consolidated corporate tax base, on which paul tang and alain lamassoure have worked remarkably during this mandate. we must continue the reform of vat so that we can put an end to the massive fraud in connection with it. for the extra-territorial vat alone, across borders, it is 50 billion euros that are involved, of which we could easily save 40 billion per year. finally, we must fight aggressive planning between member states. it's a very important cause. all this will require determination, ambition, combativeness on your part and ours, but also a change of rules. that is why we must urgently move the debate on the switch to qualified majority voting. again, it's not just a change of rules, it's what makes it possible to profoundly change the world, to change the air and to finally be able to grasp the reality of taxation today. this will also allow us to have an attractive capacity in the world, because we weaken if we are not able to create together this fiscal sovereignty. i think this should be a central theme of the european elections campaign. i'm counting on each and every one of you to defend this solution. i'll do it for you. i noticed that it was banned on many benches from left to right. i am realistic, i know that it will take time to get this proposal adopted because unfortunately we have the duty to require unanimity to move from unanimity to qualified majority. today, it is far from being among the finance ministers who have spoken of it for the first time in an ecofin council. they will discuss this again in the coming weeks under the romanian presidency. i hope so, and i am asking for it from this podium, from this chamber. i have noticed some reluctance or resistance. to defeat them, we need the pressure of a parliament, a parliament which represents a people, and that is why it is absolutely fundamental that we can put ourselves in the eyes of the european citizens and exert pressure on the member states. many of you have noted their responsibility, and i share that view. in any event, the commission and the european parliament will have to continue to fight side by side to promote tax justice in the coming campaign and beyond. they will be aggressive and will urge all parties to take up this issue, to make it a central issue in their programme for the europe of tomorrow, to ensure that this is a common fight for tax justice that can continue in the future, especially in the next term. but since this will surely be - i say this - my last speech, at any rate on this subject, in this mandate, because i will still be here for the next one or for the beginning of the next one, i want to express my conviction, after almost five years spent with you, that this is a subject which brings together, which is one of the unifying subjects of the idea of europe for tomorrow. it is true that there have always been expressions of varying sensibilities, a very large majority, a very large majority, expressing support for your reports and for this cause. this has become the cause of europeans. it is what unites us and brings us together. finally, i would like to thank the european parliament again for the great work it has done in advancing alongside us, with us, this great cause of transparency, of combating fraud and tax evasion. we did a lot. there's still a lot to do. this is a fight that must continue and we will continue it together.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 26 march 2019. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the situation of rule of law and fight against corruption in the eu, specifically in malta and slovakia, tabled by claude moraes, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-000015/2019 – b8—0017/2019) (2018/2965(rsp)).
mr president, commissioner, i have been to malta and slovakia repeatedly last year and this year and i must say that i was rather appalled by the number of cases of breaches of european union rules. the citizens of malta and slovakia are hoping the european union will help them fight the very things that killed those two journalists. it's firstly corruption and secondly the dysfunction of the rule of law. let's not talk about how this thing isn't well known. it is well known and we really need to be as members of the european parliament and as representatives of the european union sufficiently tough and uncompromising not only in investigating these cases but in setting better rules. the european union must not be seen as a toothless machine that tolerates certain excesses, but as one that demands thorough investigation and the setting of rules for the future so that similar cases are not repeated.
member of the commission. – mr president, this has been a very important debate because it covered several existentially crucial and important topics. we spoke about the rule of law and freedom of the media. we didn’t speak so much about the necessary space for civil society, which is also part of the same thing. whenever we see a worsening of the situation in a member state, we see that it usually refers to all three of these pillars, which we should pay attention to. i will now stay more with the rule of law principle and the mechanisms the commission uses to uphold and monitor the rule of law in the member states. as i said before, we use the whole toolbox and all the instruments available. we launched article 7 for the first time. we are covering this important issue in the european semester. we use infringements where possible and where needed, and we also use something which i didn’t mention at the beginning, the justice scoreboard, which is a very useful yearly benchmarking exercise and shows, among other things, how the people, the citizens and the businesses in all the countries grasp and perceive the independence and quality of the judiciary system. we are also newly adding the criteria of how the fight against corruption is done in the member states. so these are all the instruments we have in our toolbox. let me now say a few words about the new initiatives. as i said at the beginning, we plan the communication on the rule of law to clarify what we mean by the rule of law – that it is not purely a member state issue, but is a european issue which has been covered by the recent case law of the european court of justice and which will be fully reflected in our communication on the rule of law. another initiative is the linking of the rule of law with the new budget. i think that this should also be mentioned here. we also adopted the new initiative on the protection of whistle—blowers and, last but not least, the european public prosecutor’s office, which should start working from 2020, is a very important contribution to the fight against corruption and financial crime related to eu money. this is a long list of initiatives. we need to enforce the law, to bring all these initiatives to life and to explain to the citizens of the eu why we are doing this and why it is very important. i spoke about the need to uphold the rule of law and to run all these initiatives from the side of the european union. at the same time, as a citizen of the czech republic, i would like to add that maybe i feel a similar thing to some of you, namely that we should trust more the people living in our countries and our member states, that there are democrats and that they have enhanced a way to solve the problems. they should not be put aside. we should trust them and we should trust the active citizens. that’s why i also mentioned civil society organisations and the active citizens who raise their voices and express their dissatisfaction if something is wrong in their country. i am not calling for demonstrations, i’m not calling for riots, i just say we should trust more the people living in our member states because they are democrats and they know what to do – among other things, to go to the elections and vote for democratic powers.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 28 march 2019. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the report by marita ulvskog, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on discontinuing seasonal changes of time (com(2018)0639 – c8-0408/2018 – 2018/0332(cod)) (a8-0169/2019).
the rapporteur of the committee on legal affairs. mr president, commissioner, the report on the end of daylight saving time which we are voting on tomorrow is a compromise which i fully support. this report, if adopted, will be a great success for the european parliament, fulfilling the wishes of many europeans. the report is the result of the work of a group of 70 meps across the political spectrum of all eight of parliament's political groups, which i have had the honour of coordinating since the beginning of this mandate. the proposal is to end the summer-winter time change in 2021. this is mainly due to the negative impact on human health. at the same time, it is important that this initiative does not restrict the functioning of the internal market and i am therefore pleased that the proposal contains a safeguard which gives the commission the power to extend the date of implementation of the directive by 12 months, if necessary, by means of a delegated act. i am pleased that we have achieved a substantial amount of legislative work on this proposal now before the european parliament elections and i call on the council to do its part as well as the european parliament and the commission.
in writing. the effort to abolish the time change was one of the points of the kdu-čsl's programme for the 2014 european parliament elections and i am proud that we managed to keep this political promise. i have supported the abolition of the time change from the beginning of this discussion. in addition to the general concern i feel among citizens about the changing weather in my area, i based my decision mainly on scientific evidence that has been discussed many times in the european parliament, for the first time in march 2015. the discussion convinced me that the time change was more trouble than it was worth. at the beginning of the last century, when the summer- and winter-time arrangements were introduced in various european countries, the main motive was economic savings. however, these assumptions have not been confirmed by scientific reports and in fact the savings are marginal. similarly, predictions have emerged that changing the time will reduce the number of traffic accidents caused by lack of daylight. however, studies show that the number of accidents during the spring time change has increased, in connection with the reduced sleep of drivers. in addition, the time shift has been shown to cause health complications in up to 20% of the population and has a negative impact on the biorhythms of animals, causing a decrease in production, especially during lactation. i support the directive because it will put a stop to these negative effects.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank rapporteur petersen, the shadow rapporteurs and the austrian presidency, and finally the commissioner for the very constructive cooperation in reaching a compromise agreement. and we are convinced that we have managed to reach a very good agreement with acer, which will allow the agency to function effectively. we have succeeded in pushing for a stronger and more transparent agency, which will, among other things, oversee the regional coordination centres. regional coordination centres will play an important role in situations where tsos decide on issues requiring a common approach. i'm glad we've managed to resolve the agency's long-standing lack of financial and human resources. i am pleased that all parties concerned have recognised the need to increase funding for this agency. i firmly believe that acer will, through the new legislative arrangements, ensure the better functioning of the european single market and be able to cope with the new challenges that the whole package brings.
for the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, i think it is appropriate to begin by thanking mr didier for the effort he has put into negotiating the final text, as well as you, commissioner. the citizens of the european union expect a high standard of consumer protection and this proposal certainly contributes to that. however, the text submitted also correctly contains a number of provisions aimed at preventing the abuse of class actions. i am glad that the final text contains a number of safeguards, such as the prohibition of parallel litigation, which will prevent class actions from being abused by those who are not concerned with consumer rights but only with their own profit. that is why i shall be voting in favour of the report.
madam president, this week was supposed to mark the end of an era in the european union. for the first time in its history, a member state is leaving. yes, britain is leaving, but it doesn't look optimistic. no one's happy there. on the contrary, the country is rather in chaos, it seems that we are watching a series that does not have a well-thought-out script. no one knows what's gonna happen in the end. there's bound to be casualties. it's becoming increasingly clear that the referendum was a huge mistake. but the will of the voters must be respected. however, what if those same voters today see that they made a mistake and maybe they don't want brexit as much anymore? those who have called it and convinced the citizens that it will be better, do not want to admit the losses. but there are casualties on both sides. both the uk and the european union. the uk and its parliament should either accept a deal that allows for good coexistence or go back and ask the citizens again for a referendum.
for the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, the european union is in dire need of copyright reform. we're looking for a new balance, a balance between the interests of authors, users and the platform between them. we are looking for a balance for the 21st century digital, and that is why i am glad that the proposal includes a new copyright exemption in favor of science, in favor of teaching, in favor of preserving cultural heritage. i'm glad that the bill affirms the rights of publishers, but at the same time that it's willing to deal with the parasites, the platforms that actually steal copyrighted content. some have criticized the bill for allegedly censoring the internet. but the real censorship of the internet would be if it prevented talented creators, talented authors, from being able to professionally feed their talent in the digital environment. to create an environment where they had to make a living as a salesman or a taxi driver and only after work in the evening could write what they wanted. that would be true internet censorship. i am personally even more satisfied with the outcome of the trialogue than with the european parliament's original mandate, and i am very pleased about that.
for the group gue/ngl madam speaker, today's sitting is more like a football championship final than a rational parliamentary debate. i think i speak for all of you when i say that we'll all be relieved when this bill comes to a vote, perhaps regardless of the outcome. while i strongly disagree with articles 11 and 13, we've had two years of hard work and negotiation. it's no secret that i'm not happy with the result and i'm going to recommend to my group to vote against the motion. we have missed a unique opportunity to modernise copyright in a way that stimulates europe's creative industries, encourages innovation and small and medium-sized enterprises. instead, we have a bill on the table that counts, sorry, on internet censorship, bullying of start-ups, a bill that will lead to the demise of discussion forums and ultimately impact every single social media user. the end of the internet as we know it. i could give you a lot of concrete evidence, but time is short. moreover, i believe that if my colleagues vote for this motion, i emphasize, vote for it, they will be slapping in the face all those thousands of citizens who have been warning us daily by e-mail, signing petitions and demonstrating in the streets. the european parliament thus demonstrates why more and more countries are becoming sceptical about membership of this institution. the arrogance of power and the shift away from citizens and their interests in favor of the interests of multinational corporations is exactly what we need to change.
madam president, i would first like to thank the author of this report, axel voss, for his really purposeful and also courageous work, because we are defying the big campaign against this new directive, and i will vote for it because i think that the revised version balances very well the interests of both the online platforms, the authors, the publishers and us, the consumers. non-commercial platforms such as wikipedia and educational platforms are exempt from the fee. article 13, the most emotional, has become a symbol against so-called censorship. however, its critics have not come up with any constructive suggestions for how to pay authors' fees otherwise. in other words, how to prevent creators from being robbed of their copyright. and it's not just the authors, it's us, the consumers. it's in our best interest to have a valuable piece of work on the internet. that is why i shall be voting in favour of this directive. (the registrar has agreed to answer the question raised by the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the question posed by the blue card. i would like to ask my colleague, when she talks about anti-campaigning, how she feels that some representatives of czech publishers are simply threatening us, that they hope that journalists will do everything to make voters expose those who will vote against the opinion of czech publishers to a stop. we'll just be blocked in the print media. what kind of campaign do you think it is when you're talking about some kind of anti-campaign? it's blackmail, nothing more, nothing less. and that's what we do, who just have a different opinion.
answer the question by raising the blue card. i would like to say that what i value about this whole discussion is openness, transparency and, in the end, democratically we will decide here. if you're letting yourself be blackmailed, that's your business. i'm not being blackmailed. a campaign is a campaign. there are arguments being made, and it's up to us to take those arguments into account and to insist on a solution that's fair, that's good for authors, that's good for consumers. let's not be manipulated, let's defend, argue and vote.
rapporteur of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. mr president, commissioner, allow me to make the following statement on behalf of the committee i represent. we agreed that more funds should be allocated to modernise the infrastructure of poorer member states to meet new climate, transport and waste management targets. support from cohesion funds is simply essential to achieve these objectives, and in many countries they represent up to 50% of all public investment, and without this funding these countries cannot modernise. i am disappointed that the regi committee has not respected the recommendations of our envi committee on moving support for sustainable urban mobility from objective 3 to objective 2 or increased funding for the fight against climate change. the need to reduce transport emissions as soon as possible requires that member states be offered the possibility to finance the development of infrastructure for low-emission vehicles also from these funds. i welcome the position taken by the regi committee on the financing of measures to combat drought, floods and noise and light pollution. we have a lot of work to do, and we're looking forward to the trilogy.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i believe we can be happy with the result of these two important consumer files, especially as we are extending the european guarantee to online goods. while i supported extending the reversal of the burden of proof for the whole two years of the european guarantee, i believe that extending the ‘no questions asked’ guarantee from six months to a year is already a very positive step for consumers. manufacturers need to build better and safer products. if your product cannot work for a year, it should not be on the market. this said, i believe the most important part of these two files is that it moves us closer to a single consumer rule-book for europe. a single set of rules in europe. if both traders and consumers know what the rules are and that it is the same everywhere, they will sell to anywhere and they will buy from everywhere. this is vital for the single market.
mr president, i am happy to support this legislation which improves consumer rights but also, in effect, supports commerce and therefore those who provide commerce online. the digital market is a great opportunity and consumer demand is growing, so there is a need to strengthen consumer confidence as well. the creation of a common european standard therefore means greater convenience and greater simplification for us, the consumers, and the providers of this trade. i am glad that a solution has been found to the technical issues and that a political consensus has been reached, so that we can vote on the agreement which is already on the table and has already been approved. in this situation, i would like to call on the commissioner to take up and support more actively the negotiations with the council on a directive against unfair trading practices on the so-called dual quality of food, which is of great concern to our citizens.
mr president, i supported this report and i must say that i greatly appreciated the excitement of the citizens, the european citizens, associated with this initiative. it was one of the biggest initiatives and the commission was very quick to respond. that is why i think it is right that we have been able to speak so quickly. the deadline, which is 2021, may be too long for citizens. they expected a change to standard time, either summer or winter, perhaps at a later time. i confess i'm rather reserved about this matter. i accept in principle the decisions taken by my member state and, of course, by the institutions of the union. i can live with winter time, or summer time. i think europe is already such a big continent, if i take it from portugal to finland, actually from part of the subtropical climate zone to the arctic circle, so there are, i think, such marked differences that we have to accept certain differences.
mr president, electricity and the electricity market are an essential part of our internal market. i would like to see a market without barriers, without any insurmountable barriers between member states. surely, unnecessary regulation is hindering such a market. however, this is not the case with this particular initiative and legislation. i think that this fits into the larger framework of the energy union, and here the european union has undoubtedly had a rather significant debt for a long time. we are gradually erasing it, and that is why i welcome this legislation. i think that this is of course also of interest to the citizens, and we are responding to the specific demands that climate change brings, secondly we are responding to the position of consumers in this internal market, we are leveling the playing field between different energy types and within electricity, while we are trying to keep this system as long-term, albeit ambitious.
mr. chairman, perhaps the easiest way to respond to today's vote would be to not be here today. but that would be too cowardly. i absolutely agree that copyright holders, whether they're authors, whether they're producers, whether they're software companies, have rights to their property, to what they create. they're entitled to a reward. and the other party, the users, have the right to reasonable terms, under which they can get licenses, of course. we should seek a balance between this relationship and the relationship with third parties providing services in the information society. and i am rather very unhappy with the way it turned out today, because by a few votes we were not allowed to vote on the amendments, and particularly on article 13. i think that's where the balance was struck with article 11. but article 13 was changed after the trialogue to make it a really big potato. in czech, it's called mišmaš. so we should be looking for ways to fix it. we were unable to do so because of the procedural vote that was taken here today, which is why i had to abstain in the final vote.
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by inés ayala sender, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, section iii – commission and executive agencies (com(2018)0521 — c8-0318/2018 - 2018/2166(dec)) (a8—0110/2019),– the report by inés ayala sender, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the court of auditors’ special reports in the context of the 2017 commission discharge (com(2018)0521 - c8-0370/2018 - 2018/2219(dec)) (a8—0088/2019),– the report by marco valli, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0519 - c8-0328/2018 - 2018/2177(dec)) (a8-0107/2019),– the report by claudia schmidt, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, section i – european parliament (com(2018)0521 - c8-0319/2018 - 2018/2167(dec)) (a8—0108/2019),– the report by arndt kohn, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, section ii – european council and council (com(2018)0521 - c8-0320/2018 - 2018/2168(dec)) (a8—0096/2019),– the report by arndt kohn, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, section iv – court of justice (com(2018)0521 - c8-0321/2018 - 2018/2169(dec)) (a8-0098/2019),– the report by arndt kohn, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, section v – court of auditors (com(2018)0521 - c8-0322/2018 - 2018/2171(dec)) (a8-0097/2019),– the report by arndt kohn, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, section vi – european economic and social committee (com(2018)0521 - c8-0323/2018 - 2018/2172(dec)) (a8—0100/2019),– the report by arndt kohn, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, section vii – committee of the regions (com(2018)0521 - c8-0324/2018 - 2018/2173(dec)) (a8—0101/2019),– the report by arndt kohn, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, section x – european external action service (com(2018)0521 - c8-0327/2018 - 2018/2176(dec)) (a8—0109/2019),– the report by arndt kohn, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, section viii – european ombudsman (com(2018)0521 - c8-0325/2018 - 2018/2174(dec)) (a8—0099/2019),– the report by arndt kohn, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017, section ix – european data protection supervisor (com(2018)0521 - c8-0326/2018 - 2018/2175(dec)) (a8—0116/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2017: performance, financial management and control (com(2018)0521 - c8-0361/2018 - 2018/2210(dec)) (a8—0140/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 - c8-0356/2018 - 2018/2205(dec)) (a8-0113/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 - c8-0357/2018 - 2018/2206(dec)) (a8—0114/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt) for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 - c8-0335/2018 - 2018/2184(dec)) (a8—0122/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 - c8-0329/2018 - 2018/2178(dec)) (a8—0119/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for law enforcement training (cepol) for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 - c8-0345/2018 - 2018/2194(dec)) (a8-0121/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 - c8—0340/2018 - 2018/2189(dec)) (a8—0120/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office (easo) for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 - c8—0359/2018 - 2018/2208(dec)) (a8-0123/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority (eba) for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 - c8—0353/2018 - 2018/2202(dec)) (a8-0124/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 - c8-0342/2018 - 2018/2191(dec)) (a8—0134/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency (echa) for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 - c8—0349/2018 - 2018/2198(dec)) (a8-0125/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency (eea) for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 - c8—0333/2018 - 2018/2182(dec)) (a8-0127/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency (efca) for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 - c8-0348/2018 - 2018/2197(dec)) (a8-0133/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority (efsa) for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 - c8—0341/2018 - 2018/2190(dec)) (a8-0128/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality (eige) for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 - c8—0352/2018 - 2018/2201(dec)) (a8-0150/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 - c8-0354/2018 - 2018/2203(dec)) (a8-0137/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 - c8-0358/2018 - 2018/2207(dec)) (a8-0152/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency (ema) for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 - c8—0336/2018 - 2018/2185(dec)) (a8-0135/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 - c8-0332/2018 - 2018/2181(dec)) (a8—0139/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency (emsa) for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 - c8-0339/2018 - 2018/2188(dec)) (a8-0130/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and information security (enisa) for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 - c8-0343/2018 - 2018/2192(dec)) (a8—0129/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency (era) (now european union agency for railways) for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 - c8-0344/2018 - 2018/2193(dec)) (a8—0158/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority (esma) for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 - c8-0355/2018 - 2018/2204(dec)) (a8—0141/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation (etf) for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 - c8—0338/2018 - 2018/2187(dec)) (a8-0131/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the οperational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (now european union agency for the operational management of large scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice) (eu-lisa) for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 - c8-0360/2018 - 2018/2209(dec)) (a8—0145/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha) for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 – c8-0334/2018 – 2018/2183(dec)) (a8-0138/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency (esa) for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 – c8-0350/2018- 2018/2199(dec)) (a8-0132/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound) for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 — c8-0330/2018 — 2018/2179(dec)) (a8—0143/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of eurojust for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 — c8-0337/2018 — 2018/2186(dec)) (a8—0155/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation (europol) (before 1 may 2017: european police office) for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 — c8-0351/2018 — 2018/2200(dec)) (a8-0154/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 — c8-0331/2018 — 2018/2180(dec)) (a8-0136/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european border and coast guard agency (frontex) for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 - c8-0346/2018 - 2018/2195(dec)) (a8-0153/2019),– the report by petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency (gsa) for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 — c8-0347/2018 — 2018/2196(dec)) (a8-0142/2019),– the report by martina dlabajová, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the bio-based industries joint undertaking for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 — c8-0365/2018 — 2018/2214(dec)) (a8-0103/2019),– the report by martina dlabajová, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the clean sky 2 joint undertaking for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 — c8-0364/2018 - 2018/2213(dec)) (a8-0095/2019),– the report by martina dlabajová, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the ecsel joint undertaking for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 — c8-0369/2018 — 2018/2218(dec)) (a8-0102/2019),– the report by martina dlabajová, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen 2 joint undertaking for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 — c8-0367/2018 — 2018/2216(dec)) (a8-0105/2019),– the report by martina dlabajová, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 — c8-0366/2018 — 2018/2215(dec)) (a8-0104/2019),– the report by martina dlabajová, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 — c8-0362/2018 — 2018/2211(dec)) (a8-0126/2019),– the report by martina dlabajová, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 — c8-0363/2018 — 2018/2212(dec)) (a8-0118/2019), and– the report by martina dlabajová, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the shift2rail joint undertaking for the financial year 2017 (com(2018)0521 — c8—0368/2018 — 2018/2217(dec)) (a8-0163/2019).
rapporteur. mr president, mr commissioner, mr president of the court of auditors, allow me to begin by thanking my colleagues, the court of auditors, the commission representatives and, of course, the representatives of the joint undertakings. i am very pleased that we have been able to evaluate the 2017 financial year together, not only from a purely financial point of view, but also from the point of view of real results and impacts. i appreciate this cooperation, which for me started last year when i was the shadow joint venture newsreader. i consider the evaluation of the management and performance of joint ventures to be very important, as in many cases they already affect our lives. whether it is the simple spending side of the eu budget, or the pooling and activation of private capital and the resulting employment, or the development of science and research. the total budget of the joint undertakings for 2017 was eur 2,1 billion, representing around 2% of the total eu budget for that year. the joint undertakings employed almost 700 staff in 2017. the joint undertakings aim to carry out research and innovation activities, to increase the competitiveness of european industry and to address major societal challenges. joint undertakings thus play a key role in connecting key strategic partners from industry and science, contributing to closer cooperation between actors in different sectors and to the creation of long-term cooperation networks. it is the linking of the public and private sectors within these enterprises that is the effective way to develop european research and to finance it effectively. e eu joint undertakings show that if we effectively link not only european money but also private capital and the knowledge and skills of citizens, the european union can be a strong global player in research and innovation. i also see the importance of the participation of smes in the activities of the joint undertakings. i am pleased that the joint undertakings are trying to support them and i hope that they will participate in their activities on an even larger scale in the future. i am very positive that horizon 2020 also includes key performance indicators. the joint undertakings should be congratulated in this respect, as most of them met or exceeded these key performance indicators set for the entire programming period in 2017. the efficiency of the joint undertakings is further underlined by the fact that the management cost ratio remains below 5%, which indicates their lean and efficient organisational structure. i also welcome the fact that, in the case of joint undertakings, the vast majority of calls for proposals were published and closed in accordance with the relevant work plans and that the granting and disbursement periods were well below the defined targets. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the joint undertaking's activities and will continue to monitor the implementation of the iter joint undertaking's activities. only in the case of the ecsel joint undertaking did the court of auditors issue a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the payments. however, this is the result of projects taken over from the legal predecessors of the ecsel joint undertaking, i.e. the artemis and eniac joint undertakings, and concerns unfinished projects of the previous framework programme. so once again, let me thank all those involved for their cooperation and congratulate the joint undertakings on the results presented. in accordance with the unanimous decision of the committee on budgetary control, i also ask the european parliament's plenary to approve the annual accounts for 2017 of all eight joint undertakings.
the commission's annual accounts for the financial year 2000 are the basis for the annual accounts of the european commission for the financial year 2000 and the annual accounts of the european commission for the financial year 2000. i would like to thank the rapporteur, inés ayal sender, not only for her exemplary cooperation but above all for continuing the process of changing the perception of discharge as a meaningful part of the life cycle of the management of the funds of the citizens of the european union that i started in 2015. while errors or omissions need to be found, corrected and mechanisms put in place to prevent them, it is also very important to stress that errors represent less than 3% of the union's financial expenditure. we should not forget that more than 97% of the expenditure that has served its purpose has been used properly and in a timely manner, not only for the benefit of individual citizens and businesses, but also for the benefit of our common objectives. it is these achievements that we must take as an example for the future and present to the citizens of the union as the success of the european project. as rapporteur for the european commission's 2014 discharge main report, i have already worked to ensure that discharge is seen as a meaningful part of the life cycle of the european union's citizens' spending. so i'm pleased that the focus on performance and error prevention is becoming a bigger part of the report. in conclusion, i would like to ask that we focus our budgetary assessment on the facts and context of the financial year in question, and not use the year in question as a fictitious guide to future events that are unrelated and have no place or justification in today's debate.
mr president, commissioner, who is not currently listening, mr president of the european court of auditors, i am personally pleased to be able to support the discharge for all the joint undertakings and to highlight the balanced reports presented. cooperation through research and development joint ventures is essential for the european union, especially for the development of our know-how in the field of innovation and technology. the strategy at eu level gives a much clearer and stronger mandate to member states to strengthen and improve cooperation between businesses across the european union. however, allow me, commissioner, who is not listening, to ask you at the discharge the fundamental questions that we are facing today, and that is the conflict of interest. we have a pretty basic policy that was supposed to address this, and it was bart staes who asked you three important questions. let me have one too. i want to ask you, commissioner, if you are listening to me, if you are really going to address the conflicts of interest of some of the top politicians and if you will answer us why some of your questions sent to the prime ministers are still secret.
mr president, commissioner, president of the court of auditors, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs dlabaj, for her excellent cooperation and for the preparation of the corrective reports. this year i was the joint venture's accounting officer for the fourth consecutive year. and i would like to say that there is a gradual improvement in both project management and the internal organisation and control systems of these companies. there are some risks. the joint undertakings have not yet caught up or overcome the initial delay in the implementation of horizon 2020, but i still believe that quality is more important than quantity and that the european budget is best served by properly invested resources. however, the accounts have confirmed the high european added value of the activities of these joint undertakings and i am pleased to be able to recommend the discharge for all of them for the financial year 2017.
mr. chairman, i want to give you advance notice that i support the discharge and i want to thank the reporters for a very good job. i would like to focus specifically on the accounts of the joint ventures, because it is a matter of eur 2.5 billion, and that is a really important public interest. there is a clear improvement here, although implementation should certainly be speeding up and perhaps the introduction of these information technologies. in any event, the european added value, the contribution of these undertakings, was confirmed. and at the same time, i'd like to take the last 30 seconds i have to address a conflict of interest. not only with important prime ministers, i don't want to focus the debate only on the czech environment, although there is one point in the report. i would really be interested in the agencies, because the different projects within the agencies have people working who are connected to the private sphere, which i think is unfair, non-transparent and i think is unacceptable. we should ask the european commission: how will it prevent this, when will it act?
president of the european court of auditors. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank you very much for the interesting debate and the many suggestions. i would like to limit myself to two aspects, however, in the light of the time. the first concerns the issue of conflicts of interest and ethical issues. i wanted to inform mrs macovei that it is our intention - and we are currently in the middle of it, and the committee responsible is dealing with this - to complete and present a report on the state of the ethical rules in the institutions before the summer break. we are also subjecting ourselves to a peer review process which will be completed well before the summer break. the second aspect i would like to mention is the desire, which has been repeatedly expressed, for even more error rates in even more sectors of the budget. i want to make this very clear: that will not be possible. that doesn't make any sense either. what's the error rate? the error rate is a statistical-mathematical method that we use to calculate a certain probability for a certain error rate by testing a thousand transactions across the entire european budget -- about a thousand transactions -- and then, based on the error results that we see in doing that, we do a probability calculation where we said last year, 2017, the probable error rate, the estimated error rate is 2.4 percent with a 95 percent probability and a tolerance rate of plus one percent and minus one percent. in plain language, it is somewhere between 1.4 and 3.4 percent. and if we now break this down into smaller areas and work on smaller areas with, of course, a much smaller amount of data, then the accuracy of this error rate gets smaller and smaller. this means that if we find, for example, in the administrative area, an error rate of 0.9 or 0.5, then this is a pure estimate, and the probable error rate can be above or below. and in this statistical field, it simply no longer makes sense to try to make more precise statements, because the effort you have to make is out of proportion to what is at stake. we're doing about 40 to 50 percent of what we can do with our resources today. there's not much more that's gonna be possible. and i think that i have to say that at this point, it is also in response to those repeated requests that we should do more, more precisely and in more areas. it doesn't work, it doesn't make any mathematical-statistical sense, because we just can't get the accuracy we need.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i should like to make a brief comment on three politically important points or statements. firstly, on the specific questions concerning conflict of interest and the czech republic: since the beginning of january, we have been working with teams of experts from different directorates-general - dg regio, dg agri and dg employment - and other experts on the ground in prague to review the documents, to collect figures, data and processes. we're in the middle of a full evaluation with our experts. i have asked my colleagues and also the directors-general to do this as intensively as necessary and as promptly as possible. i can't give you a time limit. this is a case where thoroughness is more important than speed. but rest assured, we're on the move. i want to give the committee on budgetary control a comprehensive interim report on the audits, the first results of the evaluation and also on possible conclusions in a few weeks' time, as agreed with your committee secretariat, here in strasbourg on monday 15 april. i shall be there, without the time constraint that exists today, ready to give a full answer to all questions. secondly, the vacancy of a director-general or senior manager versus transfer. again, we are convinced that both ways, instruments, of arriving at a decision on an item are equally valid in our legal frameworks. i 'd like to add this . what are the reasons for a transfer? there are two reasons that might be quite interesting. firstly, there are more transfers at the beginning of a commission's term of office, but only at the beginning. a new commission has new directorates-general, reassigns directors-general and therefore also comes to the conclusion that the pool of competent senior managers should be reorganized. this only makes sense by transfer. and secondly, we do not practice as a rigid rule, but as an important part of our personnel management, mobility after five or six years of changing from one office to another. again, this is only by transfer. i remember that there have been complaints from this house on a number of occasions when directors-general or similar positions have been occupied for six, seven, eight, nine years by the same woman, by the same man. we were asked why you didn't regroup. it's only a transfer. we will follow up on this, but it is clear - and i shall continue to make this point in the coming days - that the tendering procedure and thus the competition is the most obvious procedure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i quote my statement from march in the committee on budgetary control word for word. i quote it because many questions required input from a subject and we wanted to answer as fully as possible. he did not do this to influence the wording but to complete the content. for example, one of the questions asked by your house was, "how long did mr selmayr know about this?" if a question of yours had been, in the course of 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, january, february? when did he know? it was clear then that this question and others had to be answered only with him or even only by him. if we had answered, we are sorry, we do not know, we have a secretary-general who is in the same building, one floor higher than us, but we cannot give an answer. i would like to hear your response. that's why we brought him in. he was present, as far as he and only he could give a concrete answer to many questions for your high house.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i would like to thank honourable members so much for this useful exchange of views. i am glad to hear that the council and parliament share many concerns, as well the common wish to see year-on-year improvements, creating the basis for an unqualified audit opinion from the court. all parties are encouraged to work together towards sound financial management and control of eu funds. it’s very important that we show our determination and urge all actors to fully assume their responsibilities. progress needs to be achieved in the coming years. but overall i think the message sent by this debate to europe’s citizens and taxpayers is clear: we are serious and thorough in our scrutiny of eu spending and we want to make sure that the eu budget is on track in delivering its expected results.
rapporteur. mr president, let me thank all the shadow rapporteurs once again for their cooperation and for the debate today. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate that the joint undertakings play a key role in connecting the public and private sectors, in connecting important strategic partners from the fields of industry and science. our challenges for the future must be those that focus on involving more smes. research, development and innovation cannot be the exclusive concern of large companies and multinationals. they are also a key component of the sustainable success and growth of smes in the eu. so let's use the potential of joint ventures. i therefore take the liberty, once again, on the basis of the unanimous decision of the committee on budgetary control, to ask the european parliament's plenary to give its approval to the accounts of all eight joint undertakings. thank you all for your cooperation.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place at 17.00. written statements (rule 162)
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, commissioner, if i were to take account purely of the outcome of the negotiations in this document, perhaps i could say that i am satisfied because, as my colleagues have said, it was a tough negotiation and certainly a lot of good came out of it, for which i owe a special thanks to miriam dalli. but the overwhelming demands on manufacturers to develop new technology were passed on, and that was the end of it. we're already short of the b. the new version of the clean and energy efficient road vehicles directive, which was supposed to kick-start the clean vehicle market, is simply not ambitious, public sector purchases are too late and the resulting obligations are full of loopholes. and so i ask myself: who will the car manufacturers sell to, if the public sector is not willing to buy them? and how will the manufacturers meet the targets we've agreed? the member states have simply washed their hands of the solution, leaving the burden solely on european products. the infrastructure for clean vehicles is still missing, and we're in a vicious circle of needing to start a market for these cars, but no one is willing to buy them yet because of the missing infrastructure, and no one is willing to build them until there's a greater proliferation of these cars. fellas, don't be mad at me, but we may have taken the right first step, but it's just an open pandora's box, because all the other steps we were supposed to take, and it was supposed to be a package, we failed. and if we're going to say that this one step is going to save something, then i'm telling you that this decision is wrong.
mr president, climate change is making citizens and politicians more sensitive to the environment, and rightly so. transport, of course, by its emissions of carbon dioxide and other substances, contributes to this problem, that is, to climate change. but i would caution against the irresponsible pursuit of ambitious limits. first, because the european union is not a decisive producer of co2, it accounts for less than 10% of global production. the second reason is that the automotive industry is a key player in the european union and we simply cannot subject it to unrealistic targets, unrealistic pressure on its competitiveness. we could totally destroy it, eliminate jobs, and we wouldn't actually be reducing co2 as much as we'd like. i was happy with the european commission's proposal, and i was happy with the 15% by 2025, but i am not happy with the ambitious increase by 2030 proposed by the trialogue agreement.
madam president, it is clear from the discussions i have listened to carefully that there is no complete unity as to what this new financial instrument should look like, and yet it is a very important programme for development in third countries and also for neighbourhood policy, which has a very good track record and tradition. it is a major financial instrument with which we can change reality and contribute to development in third countries. we can prevent another migration crisis. it is therefore important that we have this programme ready for the next financial period. i understand that the commission is trying to make it more efficient, and that is why it is combining some of the sub-programmes, but we should do it sensibly. this makes it somewhat difficult for the granting authorities and beneficiaries to be transparent. according to civil society representatives, the specific forms already built are in danger of being lost, and therefore i will support the amendment which aims at a separate programme for neighbourhoods.
madam president, i see the neighbourhood policy and development aid as one of the instruments of our security. we can't just worry about security in our own space, but we have to focus on the world around us. there's no doubt about that. i therefore welcome the amount proposed to be budgeted under this new instrument. in my view, this instrument promotes a higher level of efficiency precisely by merging several previously separate instruments. i very much hope that there will be a reduction in administrative and personnel costs, for example, and that the efficiency will really show. we're here every thursday to look at human rights abuses in many countries around the world. and i think that we can now, with the political conditionality, that is, by fulfilling the basic democratic procedures, those that we think are the content of our europeanism, we can make that development aid conditional on that, and i think that can also contribute to a greater effectiveness of our policy.
for the group gue/ngl. madam president, in november 2015 the european commission set out a medium-term strategy for the eu's enlargement policy. gradually, all the western balkan countries have been granted candidate status and are currently engaged in a long-term dialogue with a view to eu membership on the basis of the copenhagen criteria. this strategy is to be strengthened in npp iii, which will enter into force in 2021, and is to maximise the impact of accession negotiations and facilitate the transition process of individual states. for all countries, the emphasis is on an economic reform agenda, the stability of institutions guaranteeing democracy, the rule of law, human rights and respect for and protection of minorities, the existence of a functioning market economy and the ability to cope with competitive pressures and market forces within the eu. the total amount proposed is eur 14,5 billion for the period 2021-2027 to provide financing for pre-accession assistance. this amount is comparable in annual terms to the czech republic's annual contribution to the eu budget. the programme will seek a wide range of applications in the areas of internal policies, security, migration, research and innovation, environment and climate. the erasmus+ programme will certainly play a significant role. unfortunately, the whole regulation allows the european commission to enter the programme in a fundamental way on the basis of not entirely clear criteria. this is also why the gue/ngl group welcomes the whole programme on the one hand, but cannot unambiguously support it on the other.
i think, madam president, that the countries which are really seeking to join the european union need our help. they should feel it, and we are also following up the debate on the european neighbourhood policy, which was discussed in the previous paragraph. i believe it is essential that pre-accession financial support to countries should be motivating. to actually lead to support for legislative reform in these states. at the same time, i must stress that there is a good proposal to strengthen the role of the european parliament as a directly elected body, which will actually increase the use of the procedure in delegated acts. i really appreciate that. i would also like to comment specifically on turkey's role in the pre-accession assistance. i would like the people of turkey to feel the support of the union. however, turkey today, in my opinion, is not ready to join the european union. and not only the member states, but i think the turkish government is aware of that. there is a need for dialogue with turkey, but there are fundamental violations of our democratic values, and i think that is the clear answer to whether turkey is ready or not.
the question posed by the blue card. i was wondering what you were going to say, especially since we have an office nearby and someone from your office is always talking russian on the phone. but i wanted to ask you: do you really consider your speech to be objective in the situation where the first czech-russian bank has contributed a loan of eur 10 million to the campaign of marie le pen, your president? are you really objective and do you see the violation of the 1994 budapest memorandum as a violation of international law?
mr president, i would first like to thank commissioner hahn for his clear approach. strong words against the illegal situation in crimea. russia has celebrated the fifth anniversary of the annexation of crimea, but we remember it as a continuing injustice and occupation and we must not relax our stance. he is a member of the 'people's council' of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. today marks the fifth anniversary of the day the un general assembly annulled the russian referendum on crimea and confirmed the peninsula's annexation to ukraine. but it's not just international law, it's also the russian regime's behavior in crimea, the human rights of ukrainians, tatars, the unjustified detention, the torture. russia is trying to give the impression that the fate of crimea is sealed, but we simply must not slow down, we must not weaken ourselves, because the fate of crimea clearly shows the meaning of the european union. he's always showing how important it is for us to be able to live freely.
mr. president, in june 2014, the european union adopted sanctions targeting russia's energy resources, defense and financial sectors. economic sanctions are costing russia billions of euros a year. as of march 2014, visa restrictions were imposed on a number of russian citizens. these personal sanctions, while not affecting the russian economy and oil and gas price changes as much as the economic sanctions, could affect the decisive processes on the russian political scene. the kremlin used the russian parliament for its own purposes. before the invasion of ukraine, he had the upper house of the russian parliament vote against the entry of the russian army into the territory of ukraine. the members of vladimir putin's upper house have confirmed the occupation of ukraine. it was unanimous. i recommend to the high representative that she also increase the personal sanctions, up to a complete ban on the entry of members of the upper house of the russian parliament into the territory of the european union.
mr president, mr commissioner, five years of the occupation of crimea is five years of unprecedented violation of international law. it's not just a question of the inviolability of borders, human rights are being massively violated in crimea. there are different categories of citizens, and for example crimean tatars are actually disenfranchised citizens who have no rights. ukraine needs our help. i fully support ukraine and have long stood for its rights and i would like to apologise to the ukrainian people for the actions of czech president milos zeman, who will use any opportunity to damage czech-ukrainian relations. i would like to sincerely apologize for the way the czech president has treated ukrainian citizens. in order for ukraine not to become our black conscience, we must maintain sanctions, insist on the full return of crimea to ukrainian hands.
madam chairman, i must say that following my colleague ashworth is not an easy task. i value your words immensely and believe that every brit should hear what was said here today by mr farage, by mr legutk, that it is the european union that is bullying the british. it's as if the british parliament hadn't already voted twice for a deal that was dignified, that allowed for a dignified departure. as if it weren't the british who decided for themselves. we don't decide what you do. britain decides for itself. they should know that. i would like to thank president tusk for his words on the preparations for the eu-china summit, because i consider it very important that human rights conditions should be part of trade agreements, and the european parliament has voted on this in its urgent reports here on several occasions. it is of the utmost importance that europe, the european states, have a common approach to this, because i do not understand president macron's agreement on the silk road without these conditions.
rapporteur of the committee on employment and social affairs. madam president, today is a very disappointing day for me personally. today we have missed a great opportunity to take decisions that are crucial for the european economy. we have lost the opportunity to act as responsible politicians today. today was supposed to be the day when we were supposed to adopt the special rules that are necessary in view of the high mobility specific to the transport sector. we need these rules to protect our carriers and drivers from legislative uncertainty. we do not want each member state to introduce its own rules and its own way of enforcing them into the common market. we have missed this opportunity today, colleagues. instead of facing the situation head-on, we're going backwards. it is as if we have forgotten that the european internal market depends to a large extent on transport. goods must flow smoothly across borders, rules must be balanced and applicable. ladies and gentlemen, let's rise above the politics and return to the only possible solution, and that is compromise. next week will be the opportunity. it's our duty and our responsibility. that's why we were elected, and that's why we're here. it's up to us. (the registrar has agreed to answer the question raised by the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer the question by raising the blue card. i'm the first one to imagine that voting should be simple and clear for all of us. but we have a responsibility now to ensure that the hauliers and the drivers are no longer prolonging this situation of legal uncertainty, we have to face it, whether we like it or not, even if we have to work all night on what our voting should look like. but it's our responsibility, that's why we were elected.
madam president, first of all, i very much regret the decision of the president of the parliament, because what it will lead to is that next week we will have the same amount of amendments tabled again. this is what the procedure will enable. secondly, i regret that the president has not taken the effort to respond to a joint letter from myself and colleagues from a number of epp delegations proposing a concrete scenario and compromises. yes, we have a large number of amendments, but those are intentional. let’s be frank, let’s not fool ourselves. they are deliberately tabled so as to complicate the proceedings. this is what it is about, and many of you have confirmed it today because you say, ‘let’s postpone it’. so we have a set of compromises and the decision next week will be about whether we want an internal market – as imperfect as the proposal is – that can function, that will tackle a number of the issues, that will tackle social rights, or do we wish to see something that will lead to unilateral measures, which that we have faced already in the past and that will lead to fragmentation of the internal market, with your responsibility.
madam president, if the european parliament does not decide today on the mobility package, we will prolong the great uncertainty that exists in the transport sector. i apologize to my colleagues, but i'm very bad at speaking because i can't hear myself. under the austrian presidency, a compromise was reached in the council on this mobility package. i am convinced that the european parliament should also be able to reach a compromise. we know that the directive on posting of workers requires that measures be taken to ensure that drivers and hauliers know the conditions under which they will be posted and carry out their work. we are already seeing a number of infringement procedures, for example against germany, against france loi macron , and the commission is delaying its investigation of these cases because of the negotiation of the mobility package. that's why i'm calling for a compromise.
madam president, i also support this trialogue agreement and i am glad that it has such broad support across the political spectrum. we must preserve the environment and we must preserve natural resources, which are not inexhaustible. and of course, i try to, when i'm choosing what i'm buying, i try to choose the goods that aren't in these plastic packages. i think we must all make a contribution to change, and i am glad that the european parliament has also moved away from the massive use of small plastic bottles. i think there are solutions everywhere, and the important thing is that this directive also imposes obligations on manufacturers. i consider that very important. i'm proud that the czech republic is one of the countries that recycles a lot. in the european union, 42 percent of plastic is recycled, and the czech republic recycles 60 percent, and i hope to see even more in the future.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the compromise reached. it seems that eventually it will be acceptable to both farmers and those who want healthy food, healthy environment. i appreciate the increase in safety standards for fertilising products and the reduction of limits for heavy metals, especially cadmium. this tightening will lead to an increase in food quality and safety and to greater protection of the environment, in particular the soil. increasingly, the problem of groundwater contamination by chemicals contained in the fertilisers used is being discussed. this measure will also help to remedy this problem. i believe that the voluntary harmonisation mechanism could reduce the administrative burden, as there would be no need to register individual products under different national arrangements. i therefore consider the overall wording of the report to be balanced and i support it.
mr. chairman, i would like to raise a procedural objection. i raise a procedural objection under rule 182a concerning the validity of the vote on the report of mr voss (juri) a8-0245/2018 on copyright in the digital single market. in the vote on the request to vote on the amendments tabled, 312 meps voted in favour and 317 against. however, the vote was reversed by 13 members who wanted to vote in favour of the possibility of a separate vote on the amendments. i hereby ask you, mr president, and i would ask the president of the european parliament to decide to vote on this request again tomorrow, because it has become clear that a number of meps who changed their vote were misled in the vote.
mr. chairman, water is life. it is a strategic resource and we must take better care of it, because even in the european union there are already countries, regions, where water is scarce, where drinking water has to be brought from a greater distance. water is indeed becoming a strategic resource, and i therefore welcome the european directive which is revising our approach. after 20 years, this amendment is certainly necessary. i therefore support all four priority areas for improvement as outlined by the rapporteur here, whether it be risk assessment, enhancing transparency, access to information and the quality of water supply materials. the tightening of the values of some indicators is of course necessary, but they cannot be set without reason to increase the price of drinking water, and this must of course be sufficiently subjected to scientific research. however, health comes first, and we must approach it that way. implementation and responsibility for water quality remain with the member states and the principle of subsidiarity is therefore respected. this must also be applied to ensuring access to water. i also consider it important to ensure transparency and to provide sufficient information to consumers. finally, i would like to call for the careful use of drinking water and to point out that the structural funds of the european union have also made a significant contribution to improving the management of waste water in the new member states. so water resources and water purity must be protected for the health of all of us and for the future.
for the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate my colleague, angelica niebler, on her excellent report. preventive restructuring as such is of course a very important tool for european entrepreneurs. by removing national differences in preventive restructuring rules, we will promote the application of the fundamental freedoms of free movement of capital or freedom of establishment. simplifying the rules will also support smes, which represent 99% of all businesses in the union, which often lack the resources to handle complex cross-border procedures. the proposal therefore brings a clear union added value. the path of minimum harmonisation creates sufficient scope for member states to apply the directive according to their own needs while fulfilling its essential objectives. the debtor-creditor relationship often raises complex issues, not only of commercial relations but also of human rights and human dignity. in the czech republic, this is a very sensitive issue. i know very well from my own country's experience that not all debtors can be seen as someone who needs to be taught a lesson in recklessness. but i also know that creditors must be allowed to effectively recover their debts. in this respect, i think the report represents a good compromise, or rather, it contains an approach which reflects both sides of the coin, the relationship between creditor and debtor. i therefore fully support this report and will vote in favour of its adoption.
rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, i am particularly pleased that we will be able to vote tomorrow on the outcome of the negotiations, which have not been easy. i would therefore like to thank all those who took part, on behalf of all the negotiating institutions, for their patience and their willingness to reach a basic consensus, in particular mrs niebler. the implementation of the digital single market is a priority not only for the european commission but also for the european parliament. the european parliament's position differed from the commission's on some issues and it was our duty to act in accordance with this decision of the majority of our colleagues. the european parliament felt that there was a need to support those who create works and to provide them with sufficient legal certainty and support to pursue their long-term ambitions. we have long said that everything must be done to ensure that europe's cultural diversity is preserved and that the european creators who ensure this plurality have the right conditions for their business. the conditions for the existence of many different transmitters should be encouraged. we are aware of the potential offered by new digital technologies. but we also want to ensure a stable environment for business. the scope of application of the country of origin principle was therefore a key issue for the european parliament. the agreed scope of the country of origin principle to apply only to cases of equalisation of rights for broadcasts, news and own production is acceptable to the european parliament. we believe that this is a balanced compromise that will improve the possibilities for broadcasters and consumers to watch programmes via the internet and, consequently, ensure a wider range of offers. consumers will be able to watch more programmes across the european union. the european parliament also called for at least a fundamental change in the direct-supply technique, which is now increasingly used by broadcasters. although the implementation of this requirement has meant a change of instrument from regulation to directive, we have managed to meet this challenge too and will therefore be voting on a directive tomorrow rather than on a regulation. i would like to stress here that it is essential that the implementation of these rules in the member states be guided by the efforts to ensure respect for copyright, which is the only way to support creators and thus ensure high-quality and varied broadcasting for european citizens. i am convinced that the agreement reached is a balanced compromise that reflects the current conditions and possibilities, while at the same time not precluding a possible further step forward should conditions change further. that's why i'm calling on all my colleagues to support the outcome of the negotiations in tomorrow's vote.
rapporteur. mr president, the debate has not shown any major differences of opinion on this proposal. i'm glad that tomorrow, hopefully, this contribution will be accepted in the digital market. of course, the commission's expectations at the beginning of this process were greater than the outcome. but jean monnet, writing in 1950 for robert schuman, said that europe would not be built all at once, but in stages, and that is very well applicable to this proposal. let us try it on this scale and the future will show whether or not it is possible to extend the material scope of this adjustment. in any case, i am pleased to be working with the commission and with mrs niebler and i trust that the vote tomorrow will be a success.
the question posed by the blue card. madam colleague, don't worry, i appreciate your cooperation, but i wanted to ask you one thing. creative europe supported the activities for the european year of cultural heritage last year, and i remember the debate when you were worried that it would be just promotion, that it would be just another european label, but it would not reach the people in the regions. i wanted to ask you if you've personally been acquainted with any successful projects? because i know a project like that. it's art and contemporary me, which is very appealing to the younger generation. just a question of the day.
mr president, culture is what unites europe, and every citizen in the european union naturally feels that even without regulations, cultural heritage is common to all, that it would not exist without mutual cooperation. that it brings us wealth. the creative europe programme itself is about preserving, developing, contributing to the knowledge of this heritage, and creating new cultural events and works of art. the media, culture and cross-sectoral components will be maintained and the budget is slightly increased to eur 1,85 billion. we are not entirely satisfied with this, because many projects will still not be implemented. we tried to make the program efficient, to focus on new activities as well. i personally support the emphasis on media and film education. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on cultural heritage, in particular by ensuring that the union's cultural heritage is protected and promoted. culture brings us together, and we have seen this in our work in the committee on culture. i would like to thank my colleagues very much. i feel very enriched by this cooperation and i would like to personally thank silvia costa, helga trüpel, my colleague diacon and also my colleague adinolfi and others, my colleague zdrojewski. it's a great enrichment for me to be working with you.
for the ppe group. madam chairman, i would like to thank my colleague mr. zverev for his long-term work on this program. he also clearly explained the new changes that we will find in the program. erasmus is the best-known and most successful european programme precisely because young people appreciate it, they seek it out. it has the potential to reach a large number of young people, affecting their future careers and also their perception of europe. this is especially important in this age of lockdown and disinformation campaigns. we promised to do our best to increase the budget for this program. we are therefore proposing to the council to triple the budget from the current level. this proposal is ambitious, but we believe it is necessary. i consider it important to simplify administrative processes and to provide greater flexibility for the specific conditions of the member states. ladies and gentlemen, today, march 28th, is the anniversary of the birth of john amos comenius, known as comenius, teacher of nations. i'm sure he would welcome this program. in this context, i would like to call for the erasmus programme to remember even more in the future the teachers who deserve more opportunities and recognition. finally, i would like to thank commissioner thyssen and commissioner navracsics for their approach and support in significantly increasing this budget.
madam president, i have finally endorsed mr dantin's report, which, after 20 years, brings about a revision of the directive. i think this review is in order. although some member states, including the czech republic, had reservations at the beginning and called for greater subsidiarity, greater competence of the member states, the resulting pattern is acceptable. at a time when drinking water is becoming scarce, including in the european union, as a result of climate change, we must recognise its great value, treat it, protect it and ensure that it is available to all citizens. i agree with the rapporteur in emphasising subsidiarity and decision-making in the member states on the essential issues and i appreciate the transparency which this report, the european parliament's approach, emphasises.
madam president, i consider it a success that the european parliament has adopted its position on the creative europe programme during this mandate. culture is our common heritage, we all feel that way and we know that the european union supports the creative arts in the member states. i am also glad that the european parliament's report contains some amendments, such as the support for film education which i have advocated. the european lux prize, which promotes european films that make the european union visible, but above all high-quality films that speak of the values of the european union, that reach the regions and the people, will continue to be supported. i think it's the right goal, the right programme for the member states, for the artists, and it's good that we were able to vote to increase this programme.
madam president, erasmus is perhaps the most visible, the most successful programme, the financial instrument by which the european union supports its employment objectives, in this case education, which contributes greatly to that employment. we are pleased that the european parliament has sat down and is even proposing to triple the budget, and therefore also to triple the number of participants, as already mentioned here, to eur 12 million in the next financial period. i would like to emphasize at this point that this programme is not only for pupils and teachers in the european union, but also for the acceding countries and also for the countries which we consider to be our partner countries, and i have just received important information from the european commission that turkey also continues to have a great interest in cooperating and participating in these programmes. i think this is very important information for the building of democracy, for civil society in turkey, and it's good that they can continue to participate.
mr president, i am very pleased that mr buda has initiated this oral question, because he is not speaking only for romanian parents, romanian children. i think that this is a principle, and we must defend it, whether it is austria, the czech republic or any other country in the european union, because if we pretend that nothing is happening, that any country can adopt a law that is contrary to the legislation of the european union, and even directly to the principles and principles, then that would really be the way to the disintegration of the european union, and that is what nobody here wants. i thank the commissioner very much for her reply, it is clear that the commission is aware of this problem, we also know that austria, the austrian members of parliament have been pushing for indexation precisely when the legislation on the coordination of social systems was amended, it seems that this amendment will not be accepted and therefore austria will have to respect this common principle and common legislation. austria is a rich country with a fairly generous welfare system, but i would like to respond to the fact that every worker not only has children who need some care, but they can go to austria to see them, which means they have increased costs. they can live with their parents in austria, and that's not even considered in the proposal. moreover, they pay exactly the same taxes, exactly the same levies, so if there was to be an indexation of those child-related expenditures, then there would probably have to be an indexation of levies, that is, taxes, and austria has not done that. i think austria will have to respect, as any other country would have to respect, the rules of the european union. and i thank the commissioner for promoting this approach.
mr president, this directive is not only a technical standard whose purpose is to strengthen the eu's energy independence and build up its internal market, but also to prevent the emergence of monopolies, including for foreign gas suppliers and projects such as nord stream. i personally see this project as very risky because it weakens ukraine's economic power in a way. this project is not in any way weakened by this directive, but i believe that similar risky projects should be prevented in the future. i want to believe that this is not just a promise that ukraine will not lose gas transit, but that this directive will prevent further weakening and political risks in the future.
mr president, the german minister for industry, mr altmeier, has recently said that the main competitors of germany and therefore of the eu as a whole are the usa and china. personally, i think there are two main reasons. the first is that the state is a significant investor in these countries. the eu has also been involved in a number of other international negotiations, including the wto, the wto and the wto. the second reason is that we've lost trains in the eu because of the austerity policies. it's too late now, we're worried about our technological and industrial sovereignty. as czech economist ilona švihlíková recently wrote: "no, you can't really cut your way to prosperity". the only way to prosperity is to invest wisely. but without the support of the state, and of the eu as a whole, this is not possible, and the right wing has allowed competing states to grow through austerity policies, and now they are simply surprised. the only way forward is to invest in the real economy and create decent and safe jobs.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, i am very pleased that the issue of road safety management has been resolved before the european parliament elections. over the past five years, the reduction in road deaths has stagnated. in 2017, more than 25 000 people died on european roads. in addition, at least 135,000 people are seriously injured each year. for example, 565 people died on czech roads in 2018, 63 more than the previous year. trying to save even one human life is not a waste of time, and i am glad that the eu is taking up this issue. i am also pleased that the european commission will draw up its proposals on the basis of the experience of all the member states. the good news for drivers is that there should be improvements in the provision of sufficient parking and rest areas for drivers, especially professional drivers. this will ensure suitable parking space, especially in mountainous and peripheral areas. we can all agree that a rested driver makes fewer mistakes and therefore needs to be provided with a place to rest deservedly and as needed. i therefore hope that the number of fatal and serious road accidents on the eu road network will be reduced by improving the safety level of the road infrastructure. we have a chance to do that before we go to our cities and states to run for another term.
mr president, i would like to devote my one minute to not just the great challenges that face us, whether it is climate change or the creation of the energy union or security issues. i think it is also important to address the ongoing challenges that help to improve the quality of life of europeans. we should not forget them, especially investments in civic amenities, in the availability of services such as health and social services, in basic infrastructure such as high-speed internet and, of course, in the availability of housing or the interconnection of water systems. these are all challenges that will help improve the quality of life of citizens, and these are the challenges facing europe as a whole. i am pleased that we have adopted legislation on cohesion policy that responds to these challenges and helps member states to tackle the pressing issues facing not only themselves but also their citizens.
mr president, commissioner, i think it must be very pleasant for you to hear the appreciation of this directive, the trialogue agreement, from both the right and the left. in fact, those who had much greater ambitions, as we've seen here, and those who were strictly against it interfering with national systems, they're now appreciating that the compromise is acceptable and that it's actually a step toward supporting families and parents. i fully agree with that and i want to stress four main points which are important to me in supporting these directives. it's a minimum standard, two weeks of paternity leave, two months of non-transferable parental leave, flexible working support and carer's leave. it's really the minimum of what's possible, at the level of 28 different countries, different systems, different traditions, and what we're able to agree on. i consider this a very important signal from the eu to the member states that children are an investment in the future, that it is the future of the eu and it is the future of the member states, and we must help parents to manage their parenting role. i wish that in the future, we would think even more about the fact that the work of parents, moms, dads who stay at home with their children is also a work that deserves the same kind of recognition. it is, of course, up to the member states, which can and must do so, to ensure that there is free choice, that every mother and father feels that they are valued by society and that their work is valued as an investment in the future. thank you, and i look forward to implementing this directive and helping families.
mr president, pursuant to rule 182a of the rules of procedure, i object to the vote and to the conduct of this vote on the grounds that i am sending you to decide on the ep presidency. i think that there have been several breaches of the rules of procedure during this vote and i would ask you to respond in writing to my objections.
mr president, i have finally decided to support this report. compromise was very difficult. i wish the drivers good working conditions, the necessary comfort and at the same time safe transport. at the same time, i am aware that international road transport is a pillar of the internal market. without it, the free movement of goods and services would not be what it is today. therefore, an inappropriate application of the posting of workers directive to this sector could seriously damage the competitiveness of european road transport. i am aware of the two sides of the coin and have supported the compromise which consists in excluding transit and bilateral transport from the broadcasting directive and envisages a proportionate application to transport from third countries. i believe there is room for negotiations with the council to eventually find the best solution for the carriers.
mr president, i would like to explain why i also endorsed this motion. it is not just about decent working conditions and social security, but in my view it is above all about transport safety. as part of a broader compromise, i finally supported the proposal that drivers should spend their proper weekend rest outside the cab, but should continue to take short breaks and be able to do so in the cab. at the same time, i believe it is crucial that there are adequately equipped car parks available across the eu, providing drivers with a decent background. this improvement for drivers is not only about the conditions that employers can provide, but also about the eu-wide infrastructure. the availability and amenities of today's parking lots are really sad and there is a need for new parking lots and social security to be built. at the same time, we need to adopt smart tachographs to enforce the new rules.
mr president, i did not endorse the report, i abstained. the fact is that the report seems to be drawing a line along the iron curtain of the past between the old member states and the new ones. i think that's unacceptable. i totally recognize the issue of security, it's really dominant. transport is constantly growing, transport performance is quite dramatic, we see it on the roads, and good working conditions for drivers are really the theme. i don't see a problem with it if it's a requirement that the driver spend the weekend at home and the week in the cab. that's, i think, reasonable. what is unacceptable to me is the way in which the compromises were negotiated and, secondly, the way in which, unfortunately, the vote took place today. i recognize the security aspect, as i said, but on the other hand, these were the defining moments for me in not supporting this report.
mr president, this proposal was actually the only one in the mobility package on which a compromise was found in the tran committee and was close to being agreed by the council, which may therefore facilitate the subsequent trilogue. from the outset, i have perceived cabotage differently from transit or international road transport, because the difference between cabotage and other operations is that cabotage is in direct competition with carriers in the host country's domestic market. the rules must be proportionate so as not to disrupt the european road transport system, on which the free movement of services essentially depends to a large extent. i therefore consider the compromise to be relatively balanced and must of course be further assessed within the overall package. i appreciate that the report not only sets limits on cabotage, but also includes measures against letter box companies. this is very important against abuse and settling in states with lower operating costs.
mr president, i supported this report because a compromise was negotiated and it has been accepted. in my view, this report also differs greatly from the report we justified in the previous point. it is a fact that the development of the road transport sector is a watershed and europe has been somewhat dormant for some time. we have new technologies, we have autonomous driving, we have technologies that are emission-reducing or even zero-emission. all of this needs to be addressed, and i think that the compromise that has been reached is in line with what i would like to support, and that is why i have supported it. i think it makes sense to introduce cabotage as such into the new european legislation.
mr president, the energy union is undoubtedly a crucial key point for our future, and here we also have a crucial debt. i also see it in a broader geopolitical sense, it's security in a broader sense. we need to diversify resources and risks, of course, but we also need to achieve common goals, both geopolitical and synergistic. so i welcome this proposal for a new energy grid, a division of property. i'm not so sure that the territorial exemptions that have been put in place will be in the best interest of the cause. that's for the future to decide. in general, i regard the inclusion of both the gas management of this chapter in the energy union, in the eu's energy policy, as very positive.
mr. chairman, dear antonio, i don't want to spoil this solemn moment of your farewell, but i've filed an objection under article 184a twice and no one from your cabinet has responded to my emergency four times. so i would like to ask you politely to ask your people in your cabinet to answer me.
it was a request that, really, if someone objects, under the rules of procedure, under the article specifically on the vote, then under the rules of procedure, we should get a written response within 24 hours. i asked for a written answer. but no one has answered me until today, which is 14 days.
madam president, the european union is first and foremost a community of law and, therefore, if it is to function properly, it must ensure that its own rules are respected. i see the report as a means of ensuring that the law is upheld in a complex society of the 21st century. experience has shown that it is in the public interest to provide protection to whistleblowers who report breaches of european law. unfortunately, it's clear that society cannot do without modern whistleblower protection laws. the role of whistleblowers can in some cases be crucial in uncovering otherwise difficult to detect breaches. but it has to be balanced protection, we're dealing with a similar question of a useful level of protection as, for example, representative actions. it is not a conflict of interests between the employees or the employers, but it is good that some disagreements were overcome in the course of the negotiations and a good compromise was reached, and i will therefore support this proposal.
madam president, allow me to begin by expressing france's complicity in the cultural tragedy that is now taking place in paris. notre-dame is a european cultural heritage and i firmly believe that the french firefighters will manage to cope with the situation, even if it doesn't look very friendly. the european union faces many challenges, whether it's brexit, terrorism, of course, population displacement or plastic pollution, but in my opinion the most serious issue is climate change. we have to adapt to this climate change, it's actually a key threat to our future, and failure to do so can really take its toll. we have to keep water in the landscape and fight against drought. the approach to the landscape has to change, starting with the farmers, and then of course, starting with us who live in the landscape. i also want to draw attention to the threat of emissions. the czech republic has one of the most polluted airs in europe. we should start with ourselves. only together can we meet these challenges, whether with european resources or innovation. i have every confidence that we can handle this.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, although this is the last minute of my speech, i must change the subject to talk about the fire in paris. in the face of the fire at notre dame cathedral in paris, i would like to express my sorrow. i know this famous place very well, this symbol of the christian faith, this symbol of history and culture. of course, this monument will soon be rebuilt, and i hope that to this end we will be able to join our efforts and show goodwill, so that the light of this cathedral will illuminate us again and rhythm our lives as it did before it went up in smoke. i hope to see the two towers of notre dame cathedral again, as proud and beautiful as ever.
madam president, it is clear that european legislation must respond to changes in the internal market. the labour market is changing and flexible working hours are increasing. unlike some of my colleagues, i don't call it a precarious job. i do not think that flexible working hours necessarily lead to exploitation of employees, on the contrary, some employees prefer these hours. of course, in general, the aim is to make work safe, predictable, and in this sense i support the proposal for a directive and the agreement which has been put forward. i thank the rapporteur, mr radtke and the commissioner for finally reaching an acceptable compromise. in particular, as already mentioned, this will allow mothers on parental leave to have flexible hours and to return to work earlier, combining their work with caring duties. i think that reconciling work and private life is one of the priorities, and the commissioner has also worked a lot on this matter. so, some sectors of the economy are now dependent on flexible working hours, and we should not confuse the introduction of worker guarantees with the abolition of certain types of shift work, such as on-demand or zero hours. we need to go the way of appropriate regulation, not prohibition.
madam president, i would first like to thank and congratulate the commissioner and also our rapporteur, mr lenaers, because i think they have reached a good agreement. i am not in favour of the creation of new agencies, but i would say that this body has a certain potential to solve the internal market problems we face and to enforce european law where it has not yet been enforced. for example, i rely on protection against protectionist measures that some countries are introducing. i don't think i need to mention the macron law, the milog law, and so on. i think that in the implementation it will be necessary to ensure that there is no real overlap with the work of other agencies and bodies. it will be necessary to ensure that the participation of inspectors is genuinely voluntary and that member states respect the status of inspectors in their own country.
mr president, i have decided to support a directive which has an important objective, namely to protect those who have become aware of an infringement of eu rules and who bring it to the attention of the public. so they decided to report this breach. it is in the public interest and therefore appropriate to protect those persons concerned also from becoming victims of retaliation. however, this public interest could conflict with other legitimate interests of employers and i therefore consider it appropriate for employers to set up internal processes by which employees can discreetly report such breaches. at the same time, this directive takes account of small and medium-sized enterprises, whose lives are not complicated by this. i also agree that employees must first use these internal rules. i believe the directive will serve its purpose.
mr president, i too want to welcome this legislation which finally unifies this protection at european level, because indeed many countries did not have this protection enshrined in their legal systems, and we should be particularly concerned about protecting the use of european funds, because the possibility of abuse, of tax fraud is really real. we in the czech republic have experience with the misuse of european funds. i think that whistleblower protection is really important. we must give them the tools to carry out their mission, and of course, ensure direct contact with the institutions and the confidentiality of such meetings. i would also like to point out that the other party, the one who is accused of these frauds, should also be protected, because the possibility of abuse is very slim, very thin. the line between a legitimate interest in this information and the possibility of wrongful accusation is really very thin. i'd like us to think about the other side of this, in the event that someone is setting up a crime investigation agency in this way.
mr president, i would like to point out that the crossborder distribution of collective investment funds has a clear pro-european legislative reason. we sometimes vote on legislation here which i do not think is entirely consistent with what the european treaties say can be regulated at european level. but the cross-border element in the distribution of collective investment funds is unquestionable. we have adopted amendments that establish a level playing field for collective investment undertakings, of course removing the obstacles to the free movement of units and shares of collective investment funds. the aim is to create a more uniform protection for investors, but there are still obstacles to managers of these funds taking advantage of this very freedom of movement. so i am glad that we have made this progress, it is a europe without barriers that i support, and i am glad that we have succeeded in accomplishing this task in this election period.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report, and i will explain my vote here. we also dealt with the consequences of the financial crisis of 2007-2008, when not all the problems associated with the stabilisation of the european banking system or, in general, with the reduction of risks in the financial sector, were solved. we've been dealing with the issues of counterparty credit risk, leverage and net stable funding. i naturally agree with the amendments adopted by the european parliament. this is the disclosure and reporting of information within entities operating in the financial sector. i would like to emphasize the scope of the leverage that this legislation brings. it is based in particular on not having too much leverage in the period of upswing, which i think is a very positive measure and that is why i supported this report.
mr president, i am pleased that this directive has finally passed with a large majority. of course, predictable and transparent working conditions are very important for employees, but also for employers to be sure what information they have to provide to their prospective and existing employees, and in what timeframe. so the trialogue agreement is, i think, relatively balanced for both employees and employers, which is why i endorsed it. in particular, workers will be informed earlier about their rights and should also have easier access to stable employment. the final text respects national legislation, which can better take account of the national specificities of the labour market, and should also not lead to an undue bureaucratic burden for employers, which i consider very important.
mr president, i have finally voted in favour of this regulation establishing a new labour authority. although i am not in favour of the creation of new bodies, i supported this proposal because it is necessary to monitor the implementation of european law on the internal market in matters of posting of workers, compliance with legislation concerning the employment of persons, and so on. i think it is important that this body, which has remained a body, although it is more of an agency, does not overlap with other competences of other agencies. the implementation and supervision of the european parliament will be important here. i would very much like the seat of this new agency to be in a new member state, preferably in slovakia. i think it would be a very affordable and good solution.
mr president, social policy is still a crucial domain for national governments as well as social systems. i therefore did not support this text, not only because i am opposed to the creation of any new european agencies or institutions. i also did not support this text because i am afraid that such an agency would try to interfere with national labour law and also influence social systems. that is something which, in my view, would be outside the scope of european law, because it is not really a matter for the european union. we have 28 economies here, soon to be 27 economies, that are different, we have countries that are relatively rich and relatively poor, and it's not possible to try to smooth them into one legal framework in this way. that's why i couldn't support this text.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i will refrain from repeating what you have said, because i think that a lot of what has been said is a reality and is something that one can subscribe to. i think that it is correct to say that we have made progress. it is also correct to say, as the commissioner has said, that there is still an effort to be done, by all means. but, in order not to be repetitive, let me say that while all that has been said with regard to the platforms is definitely relevant and there is still a lot of room to cover, there are also other aspects that we need to be aware of. i need to draw a parallel with the recent negotiations on the cyberecurity act, because, after all, elections and our sovereignty are key, but also the health and lives of our people, are equally key. the fact, madam minister, is that regarding what you have said just a few minutes ago – as relevant as it is – i don’t see the backing in a number of member states for that. i don’t see the recognition on the side of a number of member states on different levels that we are facing the threat that some of the colleagues have already spoken about, whether it is the question of european elections and the other elections, lives or safety. we even see trojan horses in the european union; that is a reality. so i think it is fair to say that, while we have managed to progress both on the legislation as well as what you have said with regard to our safety, but also with regard to the european elections, what we really need – and the commission knows my point of view on that, because we were in a debate just some weeks ago – is a real mindset change, because this is a reality. we are confronting a war which is led against us – not by means of arms, but something as dangerous as that – and i think that unless we recognise it and unless we are consistent in our attention and our efforts – and not just before european elections – we will be hit, we will be vulnerable and we will be damaged.
blue-card question. – i would definitely agree with you on the question of freedom of expression, but i did not detect in your remarks any concern regarding, let’s say, possible cyber-attacks from the east or elsewhere with interference in european any other elections. so my question is: do you share that concern, and if you do, how would you tackle it in terms of means to confront that risk and how would you minimise it?
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is nice, it's nice in how we all want to do more to make this election, i would say, neutral in the world of cybersecurity. but i would like to say one thing: is this debate too late? is this debate just an exchange of views, i would say, on how we should have dealt with the various actors who were influencing important developments in the european union? i too welcome the package prepared by the european commission, but, commissioner, i am telling you, we are not going to protect these elections in the same special way with this package. there is a need to work systematically, even after you are no longer commissioner, on further measures to ensure that no elections, no referendums and no other acts of democracy are influenced by anyone. there's been talk across the political spectrum about how we want to fight the spread of fake news, but the only way to fight fake news is to have educated citizens who aren't afraid to check information and try to find the truth. i challenge you, my colleagues, to be informed citizens who seek the truth.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the last time i had the honour to address this plenary was on 11 december last year, and at the time i welcomed the political consensus that emerged at the itre committee – thank you, president buzek – and the ability of going at speed and quality that was the ambition of parliament to agree on the framework programme regulation establishing horizon europe and a specific programme decision, thus opening the way for the council and the commission to start the real negotiations. and here we are again, four months and three trilogues later, and i’m very happy. very happy that we reached such a well-balanced agreement on horizon europe. congratulations. congratulations, mr nica; congratulations mr ehler, for the great work achieved. it was really impressive how you did it, how you achieved a consensus, how you worked so hard, and how everyone worked so hard. so, really, congratulations and i’ll be watching tomorrow on this confirmation. i wanted also to thank president buzek, who was also always there with us, in the itre committee. congratulations to the council; congratulations to the romanian presidency; and – i wanted to be a little bit personal – congratulations, ambassador, to you, and to your team. you worked very hard, 24 hours a day, to achieve this and i’m really, deeply thankful for that. (applause)last week, i had a beautiful moment. i think we all had a beautiful moment – to have for the first time in our lifetime a picture of a black hole. imagine that! a man 100 years ago, albert einstein, imagined a black hole, and for 100 years people tried to achieve and to prove that that was right, and we did it. we did it, and europe was there, touching the button of that picture, which will make for the world things that we cannot even imagine, because even einstein could never have imagined what he did: how much that would impact the world. i think there was one scientist there that said, ‘you know, there’s a history of science before that moment, before the picture, and there will be a history of science after that moment’. i think that, for me, if i could have described european science it was that moment. because that moment was about open science, about open innovation, and about openness to the world: in that room that day, they were representing 200 scientists. they were representing 40 different nationalities. and so i’m extremely proud, because horizon europe is just about that. it is about our leadership as europeans in science. when you think about everything that we have achieved: that we have decided that on the next programme we will have these missions that mr ehler referred to: missions of science that people will understand. that we will communicate with people about the things that we want to do – to cure diseases like cancer. that will link us to the people. and then the ways that we will do it in terms of the european innovation council and the way we will innovate on the financing and the funding for innovation. the partnerships where we decided to go for an easier way, for a less complex way of defining those partnerships. and, of course, one of the points that was so important for all of us is that while the programme is about excellence, we have also to help those that are going up that ladder of excellence, and that we owe to you. we owe it to you, to the parliament, that we achieved that agreement; that we will put 3.3% of the budget for widening measures in the future. that is a big achievement, and i also wanted to congratulate you for that. so, by agreeing on horizon europe, we have sent a strong signal to the mff negotiators about the importance of science and innovation, and it is now our common task to defend a robust budget for it. this will be the next challenge, my friends, and i count on all of you to make sure that horizon europe will become not only the biggest science and innovation programme ever, but also the one delivering the highest impact for our citizens.
the rapporteur of the committee on budgetary control. mr president, in today's rapidly globalising world, it is essential to focus on the results of future research and innovation in the european union. compared to other large economies, europe suffers from a lack of funding, even though research and innovation are the basis for sustainable jobs and growth. the current horizon 2020 programme has already delivered a unique european added value by promoting competitiveness and cooperation for the best scientific knowledge and innovation across the continent. from the budgetary control point of view, there is a continuing need to increase synergies between research and innovation programmes and other european union programmes, to continue simplifying rules and procedures and to better inform europeans about the results of research and innovation. horizon europe fulfils this by focusing on excellence, transnational competition and cooperation. i believe it will meet those expectations and have an even greater impact than the current program. in conclusion, let me thank commissioner moedas for his always constructive cooperation with the committee on budgetary control.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, dan nic and christian ehler, for their tremendous commitment and excellent cooperation with us, the shadow rapporteurs. thank you very much, and i appreciate it very much. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. i'm very glad that even though we had little time, we came to a balanced conclusion. i am also pleased that my colleagues have accepted my proposal to include support for research in the so-called coal regions. i consider this essential for the regulation and the objectives we have set ourselves in the field of energy in the european union. horizon will also help to promote the sharing of experience of the economic and social changes associated with the decline of coal mining. i also consider the area of the so-called widening countries to be very important. we need to focus on a more balanced recruitment and remuneration of scientists across the european union in the future. only then can we realize their full potential and prevent them from leaving for other scientific centers around the world.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the european parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, mrs schaldemose, but also the fictitious rapporteurs, for all their efforts and cooperation in reaching agreement on this matter in such a short time. parliament has helped to strengthen and shape the text of the new regulation. your amendments will help create a fairer environment for businesses in the online platform economy. this will benefit the consumers who use these platforms. there will be a clear set of rules and a more predictable regulatory environment. this in turn will build trust across borders. we would obviously like this to help platforms grow, invest and innovate. some of these additional provisions proposed by the european parliament will help more than one million european smes, which offer their goods and services via online platforms, to reach their customers. let me highlight the exploitation systems, where parliament has filled a potential gap. it was clarified that online intermediation services cannot evade their obligations when controlling the underlying operating systems. i also welcome the introduction of a list of specific contractual terms and conditions to ensure fair treatment between online intermediation services and their business users and to prohibit certain harmful practices. this will make the new regulation a powerful instrument. many of your proposals will contribute to our main objective of increasing transparency, particularly on the crucial issue of classification. for example, and this was also mentioned by the rapporteur, in addition to online intermediation services, search engines will have to provide information on any differentiated treatment they apply. companies will now be able to resolve disputes more easily. for example, all platforms, except the smallest, will have to have an internal complaint handling system and use mediators that platforms must identify in advance to allow for out-of-court settlement of disputes. this balance takes account of the expectations of enterprises. the final text also strengthened the role of the member states in implementing the regulation. member states will have to put in place measures to ensure that the new rules are applied properly and effectively. they will also have to work with us, the commission, to monitor and assess the impact of the new rules and share relevant information. but, of course, our work does not end here. we will develop guidelines that will provide more clarity on the information that online platforms and search engines must provide on how ranking works. we will of course work with industry to develop codes of conduct to complement the new rules. i am glad that the compromise we have reached preserves the spirit, the objectives and the approach of our original proposal. it creates a balance and allows platforms, particularly european ones, to establish themselves and develop. this is only the first step. we are already taking the lead, on the one hand with the work of the observatory on the platform economy, and i would remind you that our independent experts are preparing a preliminary report expected later this year, on the other hand with the revision as provided for in the regulation, there will be a rigorous evaluation 18 months after the entry into force. we, for our part, count on your support to continue this process. i also hope that parliament will approve the regulation when it votes tomorrow.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the key to any business is honesty and transparency with your consumers, but also with your business partners. this regulation ensures this needed greater transparency, while not imposing unneeded over—regulation on platforms and traders. online commerce is the future of our economy and we must not destroy our european players in a misguided attempt to attack the international ones. the path to hell is paved with good intentions. some in this house saw this regulation as a political tool, as a way to change competition policy through the back door. i am pleased that in the end common sense has prevailed and i can only thank the rapporteur in this regard. she had the courage to seek a good and balanced agreement over fighting for one which would have had a negative effect on our economy and the digital single market. this is why the alde group will support the trilogue outcome tomorrow at the votes, and i encourage both platforms and traders to use this new transparency to its greatest extent. it is only by adopting best practices and effective self-regulation that this market can continue to be fair to all. i fear if platforms don’t use this chance that they will not get another one.
mr president, the reason for the negotiated agreement is that it is a change that improves the position of consumers and that if we do not approve it tomorrow, consumers will have to wait another year. this is another example of a double standard, where the rights of some consumers are considered more important than the rights of others, such as those who rightly feel that they are second-class citizens. that's why i voted no for a deal in committee and i've tabled an amendment that, if passed, would put us back on the table. let us not leave it until we have in our hands a text with which we can in good conscience stand before our citizens and tell them that we have indeed outlawed dual-membership. i suggested how to do it. double quality must be a foul practice. only the same products should be labelled, and the consumer should be able to see what he is buying at a glance. no more business favors! ladies and gentlemen, please do not change your opinion under pressure, which we have already expressed, to prohibit double quality. the credibility of the european institutions, of the european union as a whole, is at stake, and i think that is not a small thing.
mr president, at our last meeting we could and should have put an end to the debate on the equal amount of cocoa in chocolate. that was his clear message. for me, as the member of parliament elected for the czech republic, the result is a disappointment. i don't want to be here today looking for a culprit, i don't want to say which lobby won. it could be the pressure of some states, it could be the pressure of those who are filling the shelves with inferior goods. but we can tell exactly who the loser is. he's a consumer, a customer from eastern europe. on the table today is material that has tempered the harsh and uncompromising treatment of our eastern european suppliers, now i apologize for the term, shunts. it's good that after many years of debate, we have new, concrete legislation on the table that is trying to do that. but the list of possible exemptions for manufacturers makes it a soft, symbolic piece of legislation, rather than a law that could actually protect us from unfair business practices. we are giving manufacturers the opportunity to defend, once again, different ingredients and therefore different quality of products. including, for example, excuses for different taste preferences of customers. that is why i am asking my colleagues to support our amendments tomorrow and thus put an end to the practice of having two types of consumers in europe. (the registrar has agreed to answer the question raised by the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the question posed by the blue card. i finally gave this blue card and i want to ask a question to the lady colleague. do you find that you use strong words unnecessarily? you know very well how many years it has been said that the double quality of food and other goods must become an unfair practice. and it was this european commission, this commissioner, who put this forward as a matter for discussion, not president juncker. they were mps, they were activities that were here. i want to ask you if you are serious about the criticism you have made here.
answer the question by raising the blue card. dear colleague, as i said, i'm disappointed with the result. yes, this parliament has been fighting for years to put a stop to the double standards, to double customers, to double consumers in europe. what i see is not the text that the european parliament wanted, it is not the position of my committee that i voted for and that i wanted to achieve. so i'm disappointed in you.
mr president, a year ago everyone here, starting with the commission, promised us that there would be no more double standards on the eu market. the resulting text, however, shows the opposite and maintains the present reprehensible state of affairs. moreover, under pressure from the commission, which did not directly request this, the minimum requirement to indicate the different composition was dropped from the text. i stress that it was after the final trilogy, in an opaque way, behind the scenes. i must therefore warn you that if the directive as presented is adopted, it will be perceived very negatively by the citizens of the czech republic. on the one hand, the eu is imposing a series of controversial obligations on us, but on the other hand, the western countries are making us into a completely uncovered garbage dump. the risk is that the countries of central and eastern europe will have no choice but to adopt their own national legislation, even at the cost of conflict with eu law. therefore, please support our amendments which restore the original negotiated compromise to the text and combat this shameful practice of double quality. if the results are delayed by a few months, it doesn't matter at this point. because we're going to tell all the citizens of the european union that they're equal. and that's what the amendment is about.
mr president, i am convinced that this directive as a whole is a benefit for consumers. it will help to protect them from the unfair practices they face in all member states, including aggressive door-to-door sales, fake paid reviews on the internet, hidden advertising when searching for goods, deceptive discounts or fraudulent sales of tickets for cultural and sporting events. the most important part, i think, is the explicit inclusion of dual quality as unfair business practices. i am proud that this success is largely due to the czech footprint. i thank mrs sehnall for having drawn attention to this problem for a long time and for having had these activities here in the european parliament, i thank mr jureček, the former agriculture minister, who has promoted this issue in the council, and i thank the commissioner who has prepared this proposal and presented it to the european commission. this adjustment is not perfect. i agree with my colleagues that we should move on to a more precise definition, but we have room here after two years of checking, of revision, after the implementation of this directive, to go back to it and those parts that will not work will be able to be revised. this is explicitly stated in this directive. i think it's a step in the right direction. i will support the amendments, but if they are not adopted, i will support the directive as a whole, because it is important that these practices finally begin to be combated.
mr. chairman, which of us would prefer an ice cream that's made from a substitute but not from cream when it's served under the same wrapper? these are real examples of what we see in the single market in europe. or a round drink that has the lowest form of sweetener instead of the other one that's marketed as being of excellent quality. i think we have to combat these scams, and i think we are going in a very good direction thanks to mrs sehnall and others. equal rights, that can't just be an empty concept. there can be no double standards in europe. it is against the rules of the internal market. we have no europeans of double standards, double quality or second class! i think it's good that we've gotten to this stage where we're supposed to decide on amendments. i signed them and i support them. i regret that the czech government has unfortunately supported the compromise which, in my view, loosens those definitions and is undoubtedly a deterioration of consumer rights, and it is important to go back to those amendments. i'm asking for their support.
madam president, in the previous paragraph we talked about dual quality and now we are also talking about quality, and that is food safety. i think that's no less important than the double standard. this directive addresses an authorisation regime which should be based on clear scientific conclusions. the new regulation should be a good compromise that will increase the transparency of risk assessments carried out by the european food safety authority. at the same time, it should not jeopardise the competitiveness of european companies. greater transparency of scientific studies on food is necessary to prevent misinformation or even conspiracy theories while maintaining a really high level of food safety. on the other hand, companies also have a need for trade secrets that must be respected. therefore, a better result could also be achieved by placing efsa under greater political oversight, including by the european parliament.
madam president, this proposal is a response to the european citizens' initiative against glyphosate, which has very broad public support, and to the monsanto papers case, which reveal the unhealthy environment of producing scientific studies for companies whose products are to be decided on. the commission proposed to enhance the transparency of the risk assessment process and to provide sufficient assurance as to the reliability, objectivity and independence of the studies used by efsa in its risk assessment. i have to say, and you won't hear me say it often here, that the final text is a significant improvement on the current situation, because risk assessment and management is supposed to be more transparent and accountable. the studies should finally be published without hindrance and made available to the general public and to the scientific community, including applications from manufacturers and other supporting documentation. the regulation even contains certain penalties for manufacturers in case of non-transparent behaviour. this is a very important first step in regaining public trust, and i'm happy to support it.
in writing. we have achieved a great result that will increase food safety. we have promoted timely public access to the information of the european food safety authority. this increases the control of the authorization process for substances that we unconsciously ingest through our food. whether it's pesticides, gmos, dyes, flavorings, or other additives, the so-called "e". the safety assessment will be based on the latest scientific knowledge. consultation with third parties shall ensure that no information and no data is hidden. we are introducing more frequent inspections of research institutions and mandatory registration of safety studies. no more hiding inconvenient studies and buying favorable results. this has been proven in some cases. the glyphosate herbicide court case confirmed that. in addition, i was able to get the opening statements to inform the public authorities of cases where our health is endangered by the deliberate deception of manufacturers. it's not fair that we pay for food honestly and get high. and it's not fair at all to gamble our lives for the profits of a few corporations. i am glad that the negotiations have shown that we social democrats are on the side of public health, not on the side of economic interests. it is now up to the member states to increase transparency at their own level. to finally learn how they decide our health.
for the group gue/ngl madam president, eu-based manufacturers of generics and biosimilars are currently not allowed to manufacture products protected by the sps for export to third countries, even if the protection of the products has already expired. it's clear that it's about big money, it's about jobs, but it's also about access to medicines and innovation. we have tried to find a balance between all these complex elements in the envi committee. as expected, however, the outcome of the interinstitutional negotiations is mixed. the biggest problem i see with the text's outcome is the date of its entry into force, or effectiveness. in order for citizens and healthcare systems to benefit from this new regulation, its entry into force must be as soon as possible. the three-year transitional period seems to be a frontier period in this respect. however, from an overall perspective, there should be a gradual improvement in the position of our generic manufacturers, which should benefit everyone. that's why i'm able to support the outcome.
madam president, we voted today for a directive which states, among other things, that 'whistleblowers play a key role in detecting and preventing breaches of the law that harm the public interest and in ensuring the well-being of society as a whole'. that's what we voted for today. in this context, i consider it necessary to emphasise that all the major scandals that have been revealed by the public since 2014, such as luxleaks or the panama papers, have been exposed by whistleblowers and have been clearly in the public interest. i honestly don't care if you consider julian assange a hero or a deserter, a traitor or a freedom fighter. i consider that secondary in the current situation. the only thing i think is really crucial is that if we want to protect whistleblowers, we have to protect assange. he is to be extradited to a country whose crimes he has exposed and whose president is now someone who considers journalists enemies of the people. i don't think he's getting a fair trial there.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, let me welcome the prime minister back to the european parliament. prime minister, you made a comment at the beginning of your speech that you had learnt a few lessons in the european parliament. i cannot resist drawing a parallel, a fake one in fact, because under that assumption i would like, even though i would never vote for him, the czech prime minister to be a member of the european parliament and maybe then we would have a different policy by the czech government on european affairs. but apart from that of course, you had one advantage. you had knowledge and you had attitude. i’m afraid that these are absolutely necessary otherwise you cannot evolve. so i’m afraid that that doesn’t go hand in hand with the parallel that i’ve made for the czech prime minister. now you also mentioned the question of languages. i’m sure you speak a number of languages and understand quite a few. i don’t think that you speak or understand czech, but i must say that what you have said is like reading the election manifesto of my own political movement, voice or hlas, and that is positive news, because that means that regardless of the fact that you’re in the ppe and i’m a liberal, there are a number of questions on which we can and we should seek european solutions, on a number of issues that we can also agree with other parties, and i think that this is what we need to be aiming at after the next election. so i’m sure there are a number of points where we would have a large degree of coherence. let me pick up on a few points that you raised. simplified solutions: you referred to nationalists and populists. i agree entirely. we should be tackling the cause of these, the cause of the concerns and also the concerns of those that we have lost somewhere in the process of globalisation. but then we also need to be honest and fair and say that we also have some homework to do, that even in our own political families, in our political groups, in political parties, we will find those that are providing these simplistic solutions. so i think that we need to tackle this across the political spectrum and i’m definitely ready to do that. now on the points that you raised. you spoke about the internal market. i think that there is hardly anyone in this parliament that would say that the internal market is not successful. that we need to evolve it, yes, in fact, only 35% of the internal market is really open. that means that we have a potential of 65%. how come we do not manage? and you have said it clearly. there is a reason to go and do business in the us because you have an internal market in the us. if you invent an application, you go to the us because you will have one authorisation and three, let’s say, contracts with mobile operators. we need 28 still. so the question is: if we want a true internal market, are we ready to go for one regulator, a true internal market? you made the parallel also, or let’s say the connection, with the unfair competition from china and elsewhere, and again i agree and we should not lean towards protectionism. but we need to understand that if we open up the market – and i’m all in favour – then the advantage is on the side of those that cheat and also of those that are big. so let’s not fool ourselves that we will establish an internal market and suddenly our start-ups will be in the same position as huawei or microsoft, or whoever. so that means that we need to work also on the standards, on the norms, and also on competition policy. we need to have a fair environment inside and the question is: do we have the courage and the willingness to go and establish a true internal market, and not at 35% but 100%. i’m all in favour. if you are, let’s work on it. now you spoke also about the question of external borders. absolutely! i mean this is absolutely key but we still are failing in this respect. i’m afraid, if i look at the czech republic, there are a lot of statements on the side of the political elite and again they lack the courage, the ability, the vision to understand that we will have an internal market, we will have free movement, if we really secure the border. final two remarks: on climate change, and again this is just a sign that on climate change we have an ability to work across the political spectrum. and the very final point. you touched on the common agriculture policy and fair treatment for farmers. yes, indeed. we do not have a common agriculture policy because from a number of national budgets we have additional subsidies that go beyond. so we need a free and, as well, a fair treatment of our business people, of our entrepreneurs, of our consumers, and again also of farmers.
mr david borrelli leaves the non-attached members and joins the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (alde) with effect from 17 april 2019.
thank you, colleague, and let me also wish you the very best. the very last speaker under this rule of procedure’s point of order is mr castaldo, then we will vote.
mr castaldo, we have followed the rules of procedure. i will not quote provisions three and four of article 226. there was a full debate and, after all, this is a question of guidance.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
mr de grandes pascual, may i wish you also the very best and also congratulations, because the european parliament has concluded its first reading on your report.
member of the commission. – mr president, this is an important file showing our intention first to maintain, but also to strengthen, the eu’s position as a second space power. in line with the results of the negotiation, the commission would like to make five statements on configurations of the committee, member states’ participation, sst and related implementing acts, access to space, security configuration of the committee and copernicus market development as a core task of the eu agency. this text will be given to the services of the european parliament. commission statements(in writing) configurations of the committee: “as regards the introduced by the co-legislators configurations of the committee (within the meaning of regulation (eu) n0 182/2011), the commission notes that the member states remain free and solely responsible to choose their representatives in the committee and the commission does not interpret this provision as conferring on it any power to indicate or select the right experts for a particular configuration.” member states’ participation in sst and related implementing act: “in the understanding of the commission, its empowerment under article 56(4) of the regulation includes inter alia, as indicated in recital 65a, establishing whether offers submitted by member states under article 56(3) should relate to all or some orbits. the commission furthermore understands that article 56(3) allows the presentation of several joint proposals, each of them by at least 5 member states and that the commission may select several offers to maximise the participation of member states in sst.” access to space: “as stated in recital 4, in view of the limited budget, activities under article 5 on access to space should be without prejudice to the main implementation of the programme components indicated in article 3 (a) to (e). the commission therefore intends to prioritise the implementation of the programme’s components.” security configuration committee for security:“the commission emphasises that, due to the sensitivity of the security aspects of the programme and in accordance with article 3(4) and article 6(2) of regulation (eu) 182/2011, it is particularly important that the chair of the programme committee meeting in the security configuration makes every effort to find solutions which command the widest possible support on the security aspects of the programme within the committee.” copernicus market development as core task of the eu agency:“the commission regrets that additional tasks (copernicus market development) will be given to the eu agency while it would not have the resources to cope with them. bearing in mind the overall resources constraints, the agency may have to cope with these new activities by means of internal redeployment, notably through seeking further synergies and efficiencies.”
member of the commission. – mr president, this vote confirms the commitment to implement for the first time a european approach for building up digital capacity and infrastructure in strategic areas, such as, for example, artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, and of course it will support also the digital single market. the commission would like to make, however, the following statement. ‘the commission cannot agree to the changes regarding the provision of transfers, of resources allocated to member states under shared management. these changes raise questions of compatibility with other legislative proposals, in particular the common provisions regulation. the commission would like to highlight the need to ensure a horizontal approach on this issue in the negotiations on the next mff for the consideration of the co-legislators.’
member of the commission. – mr president, this legislative proposal is really very timely, coming at a time when european citizens, especially youngsters, are protesting and coming onto the streets, asking to do more for the climate and more for the environment. the agreement of the european institutions on this regulation is a very good signal to show our commitments. however, the commission makes the following three statements: ‘the commission regrets that the co—legislators decided to maintain the life logo. this runs counter to the horizontal approach of not having programme—specific logos under the future long—term budget. second, the commission considers that there is a lack of justification for the examination procedure of the non—opinion clause. third, the commission confirms that the open—ended duration of the programme is without prejudice to the prerogative of the commission to present a life successor programme for the next mff. for the full consideration, of course, by the co—legislators.’
colleagues, before the last report, this is the last time i will be chairing the vote, so i would like to extend my appreciation for the last two-and-a-half years in the chair. i wish the very best to those of you who are running in the elections, and to those of you who are not, i wish you all that comes next. (applause) thank you colleagues, the applause is meant especially for you.
that concludes the vote.
mr president, i am very pleased to be able to make a positive statement in my last speech on the floor of this european parliament, unlike many previous speeches in which i have, in my view, rightly criticised the various resolutions and legislative acts adopted by the european parliament. horizon is exactly the type of programme we should be supporting if we want to keep up with innovation, new technology, science and research. i am therefore satisfied with the provisional agreement on this programme, and i now hope for an ambitious agreement on its financing, and i believe that it will be fulfilled. i would also like to say that, after the united kingdom leaves the european union, i would like the united kingdom to remain fully integrated in this programme, to continue the programmes without interruption, because it is our close partner in science and research.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it should be recalled that this proposal is in fact a response to the big mistake that was made in 2015/2016 when the schengen border was not protected as it should have been. almost two million migrants arrived in europe between 2015 and 2017. some were indeed legal refugees fleeing the violence of war, but there were also a number of immigrants who were not eligible for asylum and who should be returned. that's why i welcome the reinforcement of the border and coast guard. the european union must protect its security, the european union must provide asylum to those who really need it. the problem is that if thousands of illegal migrants come here, then the citizens of the european union do not feel safe and then refuse to accept even legal asylum seekers. so this motion should be adopted.
mr president, i fully understand that on the penultimate day of the plenary session of our mandate the concentration is less, but we are discussing the amendment of the visa code, and this is a subject which is very serious for all citizens of the european union. i support this amendment. i think that a good compromise has been reached in terms of simplifying the visa procedure for legal travellers who are registered in the system and who do not need to be present in person when applying. or multiple visas can be issued, so long-term visas, all of which simplify the process. on the other hand, to increase security within the european union, certain rules are being tightened in the face of migratory pressure. it's like the visa fee increase. or to facilitate the return policy, there are measures that i support.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, as you know, i was not at all happy with the outcome of the interinstitutional negotiations on the revision. what is the real result of the whole clean mobility package? we put excessive demands on manufacturers to reduce emissions, to develop new technology for both passenger and heavy vehicles, and that was basically the end of it. the text of the directive on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient road vehicles, which was supposed to kick-start the clean vehicle market, is not ambitious, public sector purchases are too late and the obligations resulting from it contain many gaps. to whom will the manufacturers sell newly developed cars that will cost billions of euros to develop and produce when the public sector is not willing to buy them either? member states have been alibi-washing themselves over clean mobility solutions. and they leave all the burden on the products. instead of boosting the purchase of clean vehicles, it has been about overhauls and mindless purchases of construction machinery that will not deliver any real emissions savings. the issue of first generation biofuels and palm oil has also not been satisfactorily resolved. the timeframe for transposition is too short and the targeting sequence is unreasonably long. but to make a real difference, we need clean vehicles on the streets now. the european parliament has sold its position too cheaply and the document is only a shadow of what it could have been. that's why we don't plan to support it, just like we don't support the co2 caps.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on a comprehensive european union framework on endocrine disruptors (2019/2683(rsp)). i would like to inform members that, for this debate, there is no catch-the-eye procedure and no blue cards will be accepted.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, i think it is sad that we are dealing here today with the issue of endocrine disruptors again and again. the commission's long-term inaction is endangering the health of generations of its citizens who are facing serious health risks. since 1999, when the commission came up with the first strategy on endocrine disruptors, we have only wasted time, commissioner, not done a lot of work. we have been unable to take any appropriate measures to minimise exposure of the population to these substances. the commission has done nothing in this matter for the last five years, despite being accused of wrongdoing. endocrine disruptors are everywhere, in food and water, in their packaging, in our cosmetics, in our medicines, and even in the toys we give our children. there is no scientific doubt about the many harmful effects these substances have. we've given manufacturers enough time to come up with some solutions themselves. they didn't come up with anything, of course. on the contrary, we've discovered how they like to manipulate facts and scientific studies. clearly, conflicts of interest among scientists need to be addressed more intensively than we have done so far. endocrine disruptors must be strictly regulated as must carcinogens and mutagens or substances toxic to reproduction. that means we need regulation in all the sectors where they are currently present. we need to make sure that we phase them out as soon as possible. to do this, we need to set mandatory requirements for their testing and identification. it is important to remember that, as with mutagenic or carcinogenic substances, there is no safe threshold for exposure to endocrine disruptors. the limits we have now, for example for bisphenol a, are simply set too high. studies have shown adverse effects of exposure to bisphenol a well below these limits. colleagues, it goes without saying that i would like to ask you to support our resolution. i would also like to inform you that we have tabled a number of amendments to the resolution which we believe better reflect the frustration we currently have with the commission's inaction. in conclusion, i would just like to say that even if we pass another critical resolution, it will not be enough.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members very much for all their comments. almost 20 years after the first community strategy for endocrine disruptors, endocrine disruption remains a global challenge and a source of concern for many eu citizens, as you have all pointed out. while we have made significant progress to understand better and manage endocrine disruptors, i agree with you that it is important that together we step up the eu’s efforts. as i have already pointed out as well, the commission’s services have already started working on the different actions announced in the strategy adopted last year. at the same time, we will step up our implementation of existing policies that are relevant for endocrine disruptors. this is an area where coordination across different policy areas is essential. i count on the support of this house to help us to continue to protect our citizens and the environment while preserving an internal market that delivers for customers and where businesses can thrive. at the end, please allow me, on behalf of my colleague, commissioner andriukaitis, and myself, to wish you all the best for whatever steps you are planning to take in the future.
i have received one motion for a resolution to wind up this debate, tabled in accordance with rule 123(2). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 18 april 2019. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the report by deirdre clune, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european maritime single window environment and repealing directive 2010/65/eu (com(2018)0278 – c8-0193/2018 – 2018/0139(cod)) (a8-0006/2019).
member of the commission. – mr president, the commission is very happy that the legislators have reached a political agreement on this regulation establishing a european maritime single window environment. we will finally now be able to respond to the long-standing request of the eu maritime industry for a fully-harmonised environment for ship reporting in all european ports. i would particularly like to thank the rapporteur, ms clune, as well as the committee on transport and tourism (tran) shadow rapporteurs – it’s great to see you all here today – for their work and determined efforts that allowed an agreement to be reached in a smooth and quick way. today, shipping operators spend around one to three hours per port calling for reporting. the new rules will cut the reporting time by 60%, saving about 2.5 million hours every year, and will hence reduce administrative costs by up to eur 725 million for the shipping sector by 2030. this will be made possible by the adoption of a common set of data definitions and standards; the integration of the existing national maritime single windows in a common interoperable horizontal environment; and the third: the provision of a harmonised interface for such reporting. the new environment will also facilitate sharing and reuse of data and implementation of the ‘reporting once’ principle. when fully implemented, the environment will ensure that a ship reports in the same way, no matter to which port in the eu she will be calling at. in addition, the entire logistics network will benefit from a more efficient flow of information. the shipping sector considers this regulation one of the most relevant initiatives in terms of the improvement of operational efficiency and reduction of administrative burdens, and it has already expressed great satisfaction with the compromise text. i believe that the compromise text not only satisfies all the requests of the three institutions and of the maritime sector but will also benefit the entire logistics network by promoting digitalisation and a more efficient flow of information, which, of course, has a direct impact on competitiveness and the possibility for the maritime sector to be fully integrated in multi-modal solutions.
mr van de camp, i think that if the house had been full now, which it unfortunately, is not, you would get significant applause as one of the key figures, not just in the committee on transport and tourism (tran). and if i may just reciprocate, it was a real pleasure to work with you among the coordinators. i am sure this house will miss you, and thanks very much indeed.
dear colleague, what i have said vis-à-vis mr van de camp applies the same, and even more so, to you. i think that, once again, you are someone who is leaving a significant footprint here in parliament. once again, i need to say that many of us will miss you.
of course friulano is not only your mother tongue but an excellent white wine from friuli, which i enormously enjoy.
once again, best wishes to our esteemed colleague, mr liberadzki, not just from the committee on transport and tourism (tran), but also from the bureau. best wishes to you.
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank honourable members for their comments. they are fully in line with our cooperation that led us to this point. let me just restress how important i believe the adoption of this regulation is for a truly european maritime single window and maritime single area. the environment will profit, our organisation will profit, we will increase efficiency, and of course shipping will become even more competitive. just one additional clarification regarding the port community systems that mr van de camp raised: the commission will not rule out other possible reporting channels, provided that the interfaces for the single maritime window are available and operators are offered the choice. this will be a choice for the member states. on the other hand, port community systems will be able to use data services and provide additional value added services in ports for maritime operators, of course if they comply with the technical specifications set out in the application of this regulation. finally, let me thank ms clune one more time for the excellent coordination, all the shadow rapporteurs and all colleagues for really constructive and focused work, which of course delivered this very important piece of legislation. mr president, i wish you well, as well, in the forthcoming elections. honourable members, this is also my last appearance in front of this parliament and i would like to take this opportunity to really say how grateful i am for the not always easy, but very constructive, dialogues. what i really appreciate is that we never walked away from the negotiating table no matter how hard it was. i think this is a very strong message to all europeans, as this is the spirit of democracy. no matter how hard it sometimes was to reach a final conclusion, we honoured the final conclusions as the result of democracy. i would like to continue in this spirit. i would like to invite you to continue in this spirit, no matter where we engage, and make sure that we create a resilient, sustainable and very cooperative europe based on democratic values. so thank you very much. it has been an extreme privilege to work with you and i wish you all well, no matter where the path leads you. (applause)
commissioner, i think the applause says it all. i think for all of us in the committee on transport and tourism (tran) it was a very pleasant period of five years. i still remember the very first days after you were nominated, to be the first nominee of ms bratušek, and i think that you and we have travelled a very long and, i believe, a very good path. i wish you in the coming months the very best. i am sure i speak on behalf of the house.
thank you, and the same thing applies to you. what an atmosphere here today. why couldn’t we have at least 200 last days during the mandate? it would have been quite an atmosphere. once again, thank you very much, ms clune, for your excellent work and also cooperation with you in the committee on transport and tourism (tran). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 18 april 2019.
the next item is the debate on the report paul tang, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on disclosures relating to sustainable investments and sustainability risks and amending directive (eu) 2016/2341 (com(2018)0354 – c8-0208/2018 – 2018/179(cod) (a8-0363/2018).
mr etheridge, i can only reciprocate and wish you all the best, but also to your parents, that they will be your heroes still for many years.
thanks very much indeed. once again i reciprocate and thank you very much for being a very good colleague.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, on behalf of the commission, and in particular on behalf of vice—president dombrovskis whom i represent here, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr tang, all of you for your comments and contributions today, and i am confident that the resolution will be adopted today, and i also share personally the fact that this would be a major step forward and a good way of achieving and accomplishing good results on this file. this will pave the way for a swift entry into force of the legislative package, which represents a political priority for us. it is critical to mainstream disclosure on the impact that an investment can have on the environment and society. by adopting higher sustainability standards, we will increase the transparency, reliability and attractiveness of sustainable financial products. it will also help to raise market awareness on sustainability issues and foster innovation in investment strategies and the design of this financial product. so our belief is that this has the potential to bring a behavioural change in financial markets and in investors, promoting investments into a more sustainable economy, and i think this will be a very important step forward in our sustainability agenda. so thank you very much once again and i am looking forward to a positive vote later today.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 18 april 2019.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on china, notably the situation of religious and ethnic minorities (2019/2690(rsp)).
the author. mr president, we have before us a motion for a resolution which draws attention to the plight of religious and ethnic minorities in china. it's not the first time. again and again, we are returning to the unacceptable situation that exists in china, the most populous country in the world, a country with a rich spiritual tradition. i'm very pleased that we found such a broad consensus, and i want to thank all the co-authors for being able to find a real consensus despite the different approaches. it's very important because china is important to us. it's important that china uphold its own constitution, the right to freedom of religion. so far, it's the other way around. christians are being persecuted, churches are being destroyed, clergy are being arrested. in my own country, the czech republic, we have over a hundred asylum seekers from china. this resolution draws attention to the persecution of ethnic minorities such as tibetans and uyghurs. the latter are also victims of the recently reestablished concentration camp system and electronic surveillance. in this context, we are mentioning specific cases of people and calling for their immediate release. for all of them, i will mention, for example, the life-sentence of the uyghur economist, intellectual, defender of the rights of the people, ilham tohti. will we ever see him released? i hope so, just as we waited for the release of nelson mandela or václav havel. we call for sanctions against those involved in the ongoing repression in xinjiang province. that's why i'm also agreeing to send an independent mission to this province. the chances of the chinese regime restoring human rights on its own are slim. that is why the european union must stand firm.
mr. chairman, today i purposely wore a red tie, the color of blood, the color of the suffering of the people persecuted by communist china. it's not just tibet, but it's mainly christians. churches are being demolished, bibles are being confiscated, clergymen are being imprisoned. an estimated 50 million, as many as half of china's christians are persecuted. clergy have to report to police stations as if they were criminals. people under the age of 18 are prohibited from attending services. in these circumstances, the european union must make a clear statement at every high-level meeting condemning the discrimination against christians in china. the european union and its member states must also draw the consequences of this persecution when chinese citizens seek asylum in europe. otherwise we are not a europe based on the protection of fundamental rights.
mr president, i would like to speak as my colleagues do on this subject, which is a very serious one. the terrible news coming from both the uighur and tibetan regions, or the repression of religious minorities, i think that is something that must be condemned by each of us in this house. we must call for the release of chinese citizens who are being held illegally and, of course, for the respect of the commitments that china has made. we should be talking about these commitments in our meetings with chinese officials and in our delegations. if we're going to china, we really shouldn't be afraid to talk about these issues. i sometimes feel that we deliberately do not talk about this for diplomatic reasons, but who else is to speak but a member of the european parliament, even if he is on a delegation to china. i would like to emphasize this. i think we should remember that in the next period. the dire situation in china will not change by our silence.
mr president, i would like to acknowledge that even on this last day of our debate we are committed to the protection of human rights, and i am very pleased that this house is truly united on the issue of human rights unity. it's an important message for me that we're coming together on this issue. i really appreciate it. as for cameroon, i'd like to join my colleagues. there is no doubt that repression, killing, torture, death penalty without trial, these are incredible atrocities. it is a terrible, unacceptable violation of human rights by the state power in favor of the president who has been in power since 1982. it's important to say that this is a truly unacceptable violation of human rights for us. although we must point out that cameroon is fighting against boko haram elements, we literally cannot wash our hands of this during easter. it is indeed our duty to speak up at this time.
mr president, this urgent report sends a clear message to the government of cameroon that the european parliament is following the situation and does not approve of the violent repression of human rights and democratic opposition. the european union has diplomatic and financial instruments and we must use them to this end. i believe that the high representative here has heard these concerns and will respond. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone for their cooperation. for five years, we have debated urgent reports on the state of human rights in the thursday plenary session and we have warned and called for the release of prisoners, prisoners persecuted because of their beliefs or political affiliation. i want to thank you for your cooperation. i'm sure it meant a lot. that is why i want to defend my mandate, i want to continue and i thank all those who have taken care of us here in the european parliament.
author. mr president, madam high commissioner mogherini, i join those who would like to thank all of us who have worked for five years on the so-called urgent resolutions. very often it is said what the european parliament or an mep can do. if we see that the emergency resolution has actually led to the release of a prisoner or a change in the regime, i think we can show quite a lot of examples here. and the specific things that have changed, we can show quite a lot of them. we have recently criticised the situation in the maldives in an urgent resolution. and then, in september 2018, a new wind came and the opposition candidate, who we meps supported, won the elections. that's why i believe that the power of our words will change the situation in brunei. i personally have long criticized states that try to implement sharia law on the grounds that sharia law has nothing to do with modern democracy and has nothing to do with any plurality. whatever it is, we can see various groups, including religious groups, who are for anyone practicing a faith other than the one that is given, discriminated against or humiliated and punished. apostasy from the faith itself is actually the greatest crime. i would therefore like to call on you, on us, at this last session, to fight for truth and democracy, because they are the most precious things we have as citizens of the european union.
mr. chairman, the change in the brunei penal code is really the arrival of the extremes. it's the torture of people in violation of un conventions, the expansion of draconian punishments. the amputation of limbs or the execution for adultery, for abortion or for homosexual intercourse, these are things that are absolutely unthinkable in the 21st century. this change is being implemented by our partner, the sultanate of brunei. i don't know, mr. vice president, what the sultan explained in his letter, if he's writing to us. i think he should first of all sweep his own front door, because he's been acting hypocritically. we all know about his orgies, we read about them in the papers. i think it is important that we also open up this issue for future periods in the case of cooperation with asean, because human rights are the language of the european union, the language of the european parliament, and i am glad that we are talking about these things. who else is going to talk if not us?
in writing. we received an official communiqué from the brunei embassy last night, which reiterates that brunei is a peaceful and peaceful country that respects all its citizens regardless of race, religion or gender. at the same time, he adds that there are very strict rules for the newly introduced punishments, for example, in the punishment of public whipping, the executioner must not raise his hand above his head, the condemned person must be clothed and the whipping must not injure his skin. the death penalty for homosexuality, fornication and adultery explains why its imposition is highly unlikely, because its condition, the testimony of four blameless and highly respected muslims, is difficult to meet. it reminds me of a fairy tale where the king would hold executions, always cancel them just before the execution, and then celebrate with the condemned. i would like to remind you that stoning, flogging, amputation and the death penalty are in violation of the united nations convention against torture, which brunei signed on 22 september 2015. by introducing medieval criminal law, she is bringing a division into her society that she will regret most of all, and we cannot agree with that in any way.
mr president, just briefly, our oral amendment of recital a: ‘china’s express interest in respecting international law and standards relating to human rights in its own development;’ thank you for your support.
mr president, i say to ms von der leyen: at the last public consultation, the majority of stakeholders and citizens rejected the re-opening of the liability regime of the directive on electronic commerce. as you are well aware, imposing liability on online content service providers and mandatory filtering of content were among the controversial issues during the last copyright reform. over 250 000 people in germany alone protested against the devastating article 13 – now number 17 – of the copyright directive and against the introduction of upload filters. more than 5 million signed a petition – the biggest in european history. in contrast with all that, in your agenda for europe, you seem to support the reopening of the e-commerce directive and ‘upgrading the liability and safety rules’. ms von der leyen, could you please elaborate on what that upgrade means and confirm that the principle of safe harbour for hosting service providers stays intact and that no mandatory filters will be proposed?
mr president, i would like to say to the minister that just listening to her last week in our group there was a sign of promise and hope for me but, minister, reading your letters yesterday and your speech today i have to admit that i am more and more disappointed. you gave in totally to the progressive and green agenda and it’s particularly clear in the climate change policy where you gave in to 95% of the green party demands and they want the remaining 5% and maybe you will even be inclined to do it. i guess that instead of adapting ourselves to the climate change, you agreed with these unrealistic goals for 2030 and a vision of a non–carbon society. for me, coming from czechoslovakia, this reminds me of the promise of a non–class society that goes against nature. and 30 years ago i remember that in china everybody was riding a bicycle while every family in europe had a car. do you believe that in 2030 the vision of europe is that a couple of billionaires will be driving battery–charged maybach cars and the rest will ride their bicycles and in china everybody will have a car? is this your vision of europe being competitive with china in the future?
madam president, commissioner, the forests of central europe are dying. it's a combination of factors. first, human over-care, drought and the disaster caused by the pine-eating willow. human over-care is what has created so-called no-go zones in national parks. the spruce-fir was thus given absolutely favourable conditions for breeding by not being allowed to harvest even the affected trees in these zones. in the czech republic, the once beautiful forests of the šumava and part of the bavarian forest are being destroyed. what a sad sight to see the forests devastated. i propose that the european commission address the situation urgently and take decisive action to prevent the effects of human stupidity, even if it is technical, and to lift the ban on the harvesting of affected trees in no-go zones. green, what do you say? (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i killed a pine-eating man-eater and i saw what happened to shumava. have you ever been there when there were those beautiful forests? and since we can't do it ourselves, we need to get advice from outside because there's so many experts that come in and out. look at shumava, it's the result of their work.
group id. mr president, the grant of a patent for a tomato variety and the anti-cancer property of a broccoli variety by the european patent office is in breach of the first un convention on biological diversity, the second nagoya protocol to that convention, the third european patent convention and its implementing protocol. all member states are parties to the european patent convention. each of our countries has its representative on the administrative council of the european patent organisation, which has the power to settle such disputes over patents issued by the european patent office. we therefore propose that the member states, through their representatives on the administrative council of the european patent office, should force the office and its officials to, first, annul the patents already granted on varieties and their properties and, second, ensure that nothing like this ever happens again, either in the 240 cases examined or elsewhere.
mr president, disinformation campaigns, hybrid threats, information warfare: the modern conflict is being led in new fields, and liberal democracy and our free and fair elections are being used against us by foreign forces with an increasing intensity and efficiency. we must create a functional system of deterrence as part of our defensive strategy. however, we must remain equally wary of measures that can also destroy the very foundation of our democratic societies. free speech cannot be defined by commercial monopolies. it is far too valuable to be defined by online platforms and upload filters. lawmakers must be in the lead on combating election interference and propaganda. equally, technologies that allow behavioural prediction and manipulation on a mass scale are threatening the very basis of free and fair elections, and we must update our legislation to safeguard european citizens but with regard to the very democratic principles we are trying to protect. let’s finally step into the 21st century.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in kashmir (2019/2815(rsp)).
thank you very much, minister tuppurainen, and thank you for coming to parliament especially at this late time in the day. the debate is closed.
madam speaker, brexit is less than a month and a half away. this is a known fact, and one that even those who do not want brexit should come to terms with. many of the members in this chamber are in favour of direct democracy. i'm not one of them, i'll emphasize. the referendum is its purest means, and if we do it, we need to respect the result. the european commission and the council should use the remaining time to find an agreement to avoid a so-called hard brexit. it will not only harm the uk, but also the rest of the eu, their citizens our citizens and businesses. for a deal to be made, both parties have to agree to it. it is clear that the uk does not agree with the current proposal. this agreement must therefore be changed. i find it dangerous to insist on something that doesn't work.
mr president, i voted against on the british resolution because it’s a divorce and i think that we should keep in mind the future relationship, which should not result in a conflict. we are trying to force the british parliament into consenting to the agreement which has already been rejected three times. i remember when we had a divorce in czechoslovakia. to have a successful divorce, there must be a kind of generosity. if we had professed the same kind of a generosity as the european parliament has done, the czechoslovak split would have resulted in a conflict or even a war. is that something that we are really seeking?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the debate and, above all, the speeches, show one thing across all parties: how important and right it is that we, as the european house of citizens, once again raise our voice in the fight against money laundering and the fight against terrorism. why would you do that? eur 110 billion of black money is still laundered in the eu each year; ten large european banks are still heavily involved in money laundering scandals; there is still a clear conflict between the commitments we have agreed and the implementation; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fourth anti-money laundering directive has still not been implemented, although the fifth is due to be implemented by january 2020, and we still have the situation that this lack of implementation leads to a stained carpet of implementation and thus to new loopholes that weaken the internal market, hinder the banking union and our common regulation and supervision. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that we are strengthening europe; that it is monitored and sanctioned; we need to make sure that we are living up to our commitments and that we are working together, not isolating ourselves. it's the only way we're gonna be credible. we will not remove our finger from this wound until all that we have committed ourselves to has been done.
madam president, the scandals that have been exposed in recent years – and we’ve heard about them, we’ve seen millions and in some cases billions of euros being laundered – have left the people we represent fed up. they are fed up with always being the ones to bear the burden of the consequences when there are economic downturns, and fed up that the richest in our society and criminals are able to find ways to stash their cash away from regulatory oversight and tax collection. just one example: as we heard earlier, danske bank facilitated eur 200 billion of suspicious transactions over eight years in estonia. despite executives facing criminal prosecution in several countries, the european banking authority this year rejected proposals that there had been breaches of union law. are they serious? the commission is still prevaricating. a few weeks ago it said it was still examining the matter. there are many, many more examples. we cannot simply wait for another big scandal. there are too many loopholes in our legislation that give opportunities to criminals and those who want to bend the rules. if we don’t fight this kind of cross-border criminality here, where will it be done? how is the commission going to ensure we get tougher on this issue? we have to go further with the tools available to us, and the legislation has to be implemented with vigour in all 28 member states. just one quick question to the commission: what are we doing to investigate the thousands of shell companies registered in offshore tax havens, who else is linked to them and what are their purposes?
madam chairman, preventing money laundering is a key issue in the fight against organized crime. but it is also a matter of maintaining public confidence and enforcing the principle of transparency. i appreciate the shift that the fourth and fifth anti-money laundering directives bring. the problem is that many countries have not even implemented the fourth directive sufficiently. so what's the next step? citizens trust the european commission and rely on its ability to enforce the law. it is impossible to discredit their trust, commissioner jourová. public registers of the ultimate owners of companies are a fundamental shift. but if we want effective public scrutiny, we need to be able to work with this data effectively, it needs to be machine-readable. as we have seen in the czech republic, trust funds need to be transparent. the registry of the real owners of the trusts is a good step forward so far. but the commission must already ensure that member states do not restrict access to these registers to journalists or non-profit organisations, for example. we shouldn't repeat the mistakes that happened in the past.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with this resolution we call on the member states to implement effectively the european legislation adopted in the field of combating money laundering in the european union, namely the fourth and fifth anti-money laundering directives. our criticism is justified, given that a large number of member states have not yet transposed the rules of the fourth directive correctly and have to introduce the provisions of the fifth directive within a few months. this is particularly important given that the objective of disrupting the sources of terrorist financing is to prevent attacks on the territory of the european union. it is a fact that the current european union framework on anti-money laundering is suffering from implementation shortcomings. it is therefore important to build a comprehensive european approach to combat money laundering and terrorist financing as effectively as possible. the european union needs to be able to address money laundering and combat terrorist financing in a way that is effective and autonomous, in particular as regards the inclusion of third countries on the eu blacklist.
madam president, it is clear that tackling money laundering is a major policy issue and cross—border challenge. fragmentation in national implementation and supervisory practices in relation to anti—money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism is aggravating the problems we face. we must find a way for better enforcement of eu rules. in the framework of the fifth anti-money laundering (aml) directive, a number of corrective measures have been taken to address the existing shortcomings. it is important that, in transposing the directive into national legislation, member states work together on critical points which have been identified, including poor information sharing at both supervisory level and the level of financial institutions themselves. information sharing is key and we should make better use of new technologies in this regard, with the aim of improving the interconnectivity of relevant databases so as to increase access to data and facilitate cross—border cooperation. also, as new challenges arise, such as broader use of crypto-assets, we need to adapt our approach to make sure these are covered by our aml framework. time is of the essence, so we all need to take responsibility and act together swiftly to stem the flow of illegal money in europe.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held at the end of the debates. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on iran, notably the situation of women’s rights defenders and imprisoned eu dual nationals (2019/2823(rsp)).
the debate is closed. the vote will be held at the end of the debates. (the sitting was suspended at 11.46)
(start of speech off the microphone)... to adopt a resolution on item 4 'the situation in northern syria', which could be voted on at the second plenary session in october.
group id: mr president, given the aggressive actions of turkey in northern syria, and considering that this situation is extremely serious and should be addressed by the ep, we propose that this item be closed by a resolution to be voted on at the second plenary session in october.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to bring our debate, just for a minute, from the paradise of a non-carbon society into the reality of our current times. i am from prague. you certainly know the beautiful city in the centre of the continent through which the roads connecting paris and warsaw, berlin and vienna cross. right now, prague is on the verge of a transportation collapse because of eu trucks and lorries. we have not yet completed the highway rings, neither the internal nor the external, and just yesterday, the city of prague council, led not by my party, but by the pirates who are part of the green coalition here, promised to the czech citizens to get an eib loan to cover 50% of the construction costs. so here is my question: the rings will certainly not contribute to co2 reduction. it has nothing to do with the paris agreement, but if finished, they will make the quality of the air for my citizens in prague substantially better. will the eib be allowed to finance the issues like this after the transformation?
madam president, the ep today rejected by a majority any parliamentary resolution on turkish aggression in kurdish-populated northern syria. we've heard some touching words about the merits of the kurds, but the massacre of the kurds doesn't bother these democrats enough to publicly agree to a proposal for effective action against the killing. it seems that their greatest european value is hypocrisy and the human right to talk dirty. in the 1930s, the czech writer karel čapek paraphrased the attitude of european politicians by saying: 'we condemn violence, but we are willing to supply arms.' yes, european weapons factories are supplying weapons to turkey. i heard from mr juncker that they are concerned that turkey is not complying with the agreements on immigration, that it is drilling for oil in the aegean sea and that turkish-occupied northern cyprus is disrupting european trade. the so-called european democrats gave in to hitler and eventually signed the munich agreement with him, handing over the industrial czech border and thus the whole of bohemia. churchill said of it, "they wanted to choose between shame and war, they chose shame and have war". today, they're leaving erdogan with the border, then whatever he wants. it's the eu peace project.
thank you, ms mogherini, for coming to parliament at this very late hour. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on authorisation of gmos (2019/2849(rsp)).
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the fight against cancer (2019/2852(rsp)). before i open the debate, please let me remind you that we are running really late, we are running over time. therefore, i cannot afford to accept blue-card requests, and catch-the-eye is limited, so i cannot promise that i will be able to grant all requests for the floor. also, the electronic system is not working at the moment, so please ask for the floor for the catch-the-eye procedure in a standard way.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at a future part-session. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the one—minute speeches on matters of political importance (rule 172).
that concludes the item.
madam president, i voted against the resolution on the multiannual financial framework. the resolution is full of words about stability, the fight against climate change, and so on, but behind it lies a classic social plan. besides other things, the draft resolution calls for the introduction of, for example, corporate taxes, digital services taxes, financial transaction taxes, vat adjustment, etc. i understand this attention and these efforts among our socialist colleagues. however, i am surprised by the attitude of many members who consider themselves as centre-right politicians. it’s basically a call for a tax increase.
mr. chairman, sex education in polish schools is even more conservative than before since 2018. some things should be discussed only between parents and children. teenagers in poland are often dependent on information from the internet. they may come across not only the youtuber natalia trybus, who is trying to make up for the lack of sex education in schools, but also a large number of dubious and dangerous resources. a controversial law is in the polish sejm, which provides for a three- to five-year prison sentence for teaching sex education. the authors of the standard say that sex education for young people is a threat. opponents of the legislation say it's dangerous to keep quiet about it. the online campaign sexedpl wants to show young people that sex can and must be talked about. its author, the famous supermodel anja rubik, has written a book about sex, its joys, but mainly about the risks, intended as a textbook. but her book could be blacklisted now. the authors of the standard consider that teaching in schools may even be a form of pedophilia. i ask you, do the lawmakers even know what pedophilia is? not in my book. in modern times, sex education is standard in the classroom. sex education should be reinforced in the school curriculum, not forbidden. after all, with proper sex education, we can and will reduce the risk of sexually transmitted diseases, unwanted pregnancies, and perhaps even the number of divorces. unfortunately, poland is going the other way and we, the european parliament, should let all the brave people in poland, doctors, teachers who are spreading awareness in the field of sex education know that we stand behind them. (the question put by mr zdzisław krasnodębski, raising his blue card, was rejected by the rapporteur)
please refrain from insulting other members. thank you.
the proposals for resolutions to be tabled under rule 132(2) will be announced at a later time. the debate is closed. the vote will be take place at the november i part-session. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on storms in europe – particularly the heavy rains in spain and of the hurricane in azores (portugal) (2019/2892(rsp)).
the debate is closed.
the next item is the one—minute speeches on matters of political importance (rule 172).
that concludes the item.
i would like to express my deep dissatisfaction with the fall in agricultural spending without at the same time correcting the disparities in support for farmers in the individual countries. on the contrary, the amendment in question threatens to widen the gap. the european parliament's committee on agriculture and rural development has made a clear statement against the decline in agricultural and rural expenditure. support for agriculture and rural areas declines in favour of an increase in support for immigration of 10% to eur 560 million. it is proposed to increase payments to turkey for supporting migrants on turkish territory, at a time when turkey is illegally expelling the population in northern syria through military activity and claims to want to place some of the migrants in the territories thus conquered, which lack the necessary infrastructure. these are some of the reasons why we cannot support the draft budget of the european union for 2020.
for the verts/ale group. madam president, i think that this procedure for granting discharge to the council and the european council is a problem that we have been dealing with for a long time. there is no way the council can behave in this way. this problem reveals a far worse bond of mistrust between our institutions, between parliament and the council, which are supposed to represent the interests of the european citizens. we're not here to hurt each other, we're here to help each other, and that means helping each other with financial control. it is european taxpayers' money that we manage together, and we must work together to ensure that it is spent efficiently. to demand that they be checked is not an act of aggression on the part of parliament, it is simply a natural part of the transparent conduct of the european institutions. we are accountable to our constituents for meeting those requirements, and i think we should be enough for them. for this reason, we cannot support the council's discharge if it is not prepared to meet parliament.
mr president, this material, as in the previous debate, is a matter where parliament has a clear position, it supports better tax transparency, but unfortunately the problem is in the council. i therefore welcome the action of the finnish presidency which wants this material to be discussed at coreper level. i hope that the member states will find a common language, because if there is no change in the council, then we can talk about the importance of tax transparency here in parliament, but nothing will change. three years have passed, our position is clear, unfortunately the council's position is the opposite. it would do its utmost to clarify, above all, the legal question of what the legal basis for future legislation should be, whether it should be freedom of establishment, as proposed by the commission and parliament, or tax harmonisation, as proposed by the council. that is, if the commission can help the legal services to come together and solve this legal problem, which, if it were to be removed, could perhaps lead to the political unblocking of the whole situation. until then, i fear that it is rather the reluctance of some member states to adopt this arrangement for greater tax transparency that will lead them to look for alternative reasons, for example, in the legal form of the document. so i call on everyone, including the finnish presidency, to do their utmost to unblock this issue legally.
mr president, i believe ms tuppurainen was there with the greens when the following sentence was written into the government programme of finland in the early summer: finland will support solutions for combating and hindering the operation of tax havens, both within the european union and throughout the world, to ensure that corporate profits and other income are taxed once in a transparent manner. i thank you for this change of policy, which now has made possible for finland to propose to open the blockage that we have had for several years. i would like to say that this friday, you, as the presidency, have a golden opportunity to live up to these worthy words that were written into the government’s programme. the european parliament puts its trust in you. please break the deadlock in the council and you will have a great many friends in this parliament and elsewhere. i would like to say to those member states who have been and who may still be against the proposal: shame on you! it is a disgrace that the european parliament needs to remind the council of its duty to conclude their first reading, so i wish you very good luck. let me also say that, since finland is a front—runner in transparency, it would be very important if you would publish the outcome of the working group on friday, including the names of the member states and their positions on this very important matter.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i think it is a little unfortunate that we have to have this debate today because the council is taking a position which is really open to question. we have already created a public country-by-country reporting for certain financial entities, and it turns out that the end of the world has not come. on the contrary, transparency has led to some business models being questioned and abandoned by the banks themselves. we have not made it very easy in the last parliamentary term and have really sought a balanced compromise to reconcile the legitimate interests of business on the one hand and the legitimate interests of the public on the other. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but, madam president-in-office, if we always need a plenary debate to get you back to work, that is a very sad sign. that is why i am asking you to be tough with the member states, to ensure that we can agree not only on the legal basis but also on the content, so that we can finally contribute to the elimination of tax havens in this european union. we will not have credibility in the oecd if we have tax havens in the european union, and that is your responsibility as president of the council. we're counting on you!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you spoke of progress in the council of the european union. i can't make out these. for three years we have been waiting for member states to make a move on this important issue of public country-by-country reporting. since then, nothing has happened, the council has blocked progress, despite lux leaks, despite panama papers, despite paradise papers. this has got to stop! transparency in taxation in the european union is the key to combating tax evasion. and citizens in the european union have a right to know whether multinational corporations pay their taxes. i also expressly disagree with my colleague beck of the afd, who once again wanted to prevent this and showed that he does not work for the people. the epp, however, prevented us from putting a question on this important dossier in the legal affairs committee last year. we could have had this debate earlier, and i think it is time - and i am glad that this house is so united - to say in unison: the council must act! we in the spd support this, we in the s&d support this, but as my colleague mrs regner has rightly said: in germany in particular, the union side is blocking the federal government, and that is why we should not be playing window politics here, but, mr ferber, should speak to our union colleagues in the federal republic so that mr altmaier can give his go on friday. the spd side has done its homework, olaf scholz and the other spd ministers are in favour of finally moving forward. why don't you work on it a little bit?
mr president, madam minister, this proposal, related to large multinational global companies, aims to increase transparency and therefore discourage profit-shifting. this is not only beneficial for national tax authorities but also for local businesses, many of them smes, who compete at home against such companies yet do not have the advantage of being able to spread their tax as expenditures across multiple jurisdictions. indeed, this reinforces the importance of revenues being taxed where profit is generated. it is also a tool to promote transparency when it comes to digital economy. there is a general consensus that the current taxation landscape is not fit for the global digital economy. it is important that our rules are modernised in order to reflect this. the eu can act most effectively to address concerns with aggressive tax planning when it is unified, not only within its single market but also at international level.
mr. chairman, i hesitate to vote for the resolution as it stands because what was strong in it has been taken away and articles have been added that are difficult to agree with. it could be summed up in the words too late and too little. it was the kurds and it will be the kurds who will suffer and be the victims, and the worst part of it is that it is on the basis of and modelled on the adana treaty, where they are being looked at or have been looked at by both the syrian and turkish sides as terrorists. it was the kurds who were largely responsible for destroying the islamic state as it was. and europe is once again showing its extraordinary weakness. only an economic blockade could bring about a substantial change, and there is no will to do so.
mr president, i’d like to ask you to go slower because the interpreters are not catching up, so those who don’t understand german don’t know what they are voting about. thank you very much.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, we are conservatives, so we certainly feel that we should pass the environment on to our children not in a worse, but in a better, shape than we have inherited it. at the same time, we have to admit that the green deal will be very costly, that it will, or may, harm low- and medium-income people and energy-vulnerable countries. last, but not least, it could be a useless exercise if china, the us and others do not follow. therefore, there must be a proper assessment of our activities; and there is and there has not been one yet. there must be a programme setting out what to do regarding vulnerable member states and lower-income people in our societies. last, but not least, it doesn’t make any sense to speed up our commitments if there is not a clear commitment by the others; and there has not been any. there is a czech proverb that the road to hell could be paved with noble intentions. i remember when president macron was implementing some small measures – just a piece of what we are planning to do now – and he had yellow vests immediately in the streets. i would expect to avoid having this risky scenario like we have seen just last year.
madam president, on the premises of this institution, there is constant concern about the terrible fate of the people of the mediterranean, but someone is responsible for their fate. first, politicians who used weapons to impose their vision of democracy on north africa, but instead caused chaos. secondly, those who continuously encourage migration through pointless directives, court decisions, ill-considered policies promoting unfair benefits for migrants, such as inadequate social benefits. those who reject harsh penalties for human traffickers, those who support people like madame racket, who so-called rescue at sea, but give others hope of getting to land, and thus give up their lives. and lastly, the very people who go to sea because they're incapable of assessing the risks. all of you who support this are responsible.
i have received seven motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 132(2) of the rules of procedure. i would like to thank commissioner hahn, ms tuppurainen and also the speaker of the parliament of the republic of north macedonia, who joined us in the discussion as well. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 24 october 2019. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in iraq, in particular the violent suppression of young people’s and students’ protests (2019/2884(rsp)).
mr president, it’s humiliating enough to know that the marriage to the man i love is not possible in all of the 28 member states of the european union. it’s humiliating enough to know that there will be some in this house who don’t even believe i should have the right to that marriage, but, at the very least, i know that my life is not at risk when i walk the streets of the european union, in most cases. words have consequences, and the minister simon lokodo, the so-called ethics minister in uganda, should be utterly ashamed of himself, because what he is doing is trying to deflect from his government’s own failings and using lgbti people as a scapegoat. i want to address directly lgbti people in uganda and in every country in the world that suffers under discrimination laws and prohibition. you are not the problem here. the problem is failing governments who are using you as a scapegoat. stay strong, because you have the support in the solidarity of people here. this is a struggle throughout the world, not just in africa, not just in asia, this is a struggle everywhere and we share that struggle, and we stand with you. and repeal those colonial laws.
mr president, i want to thank the authors of this resolution and i want to thank all those who spoke, because the european parliament's voice is united and clear. a complete condemnation of the political reality in uganda. the law that has been introduced is absolutely scandalous, and it is probably not about you, commissioner, but about the next european commission. it is not possible to send european money to countries where the homosexual minority is so madly harassed. this must have an impact on the development aid that the european union is providing to uganda. it has already been said colleagues that this aid is not small at all, and we send money to governments that are considering that homosexual intercourse will be punishable by death. in addition, ugandan prisons are full of gay activists, human rights fighters, and such a country we send our european money. this is truly scandalous and i think that this resolution that we are adopting today must be a guide for the european commission to change its practice and support for uganda as such.
mr president, commissioner mimica, we are debating human rights violations on thursdays in the strasbourg plenary session, and it is a moment of rare unanimity because those of us who are here are very motivated: we are committed to opposing the death penalty, to opposing all forms of discrimination, to opposing the most ominous violations of human rights... and all of this is mixed up in this aberrant case of criminalization - with death penalty threat - of homosexuality in uganda. africa is the top priority of european foreign policy for good reason, and also of development cooperation: it is the lion's share of the european humanitarian cooperation budget. but european diplomacy must be used to the full to remove these unacceptable human rights violations, which are the criminalization of the right of same-sex couples to love each other. we therefore demand that the cotonou agreement be enforced so that if a country is completely incompatible with the cause of respect for the most basic human rights, that country is excluded from the enormous amounts of aid that the european union invests in development cooperation and humanitarian aid, and this cannot be in return for anything.
mr president, i join the condemnation that has been expressed here today by my colleagues. of course, the brutal attacks on people who are just people are, in my opinion, completely unacceptable. and the behaviour of the ugandan government is unacceptable. if he indirectly supports these attacks, if he changes the law and proposes a law that criminalizes, even punishes with the death penalty, just for being one, then i think that's unacceptable in the 20th century, not just in the 20th century. it's like going back to the middle ages. in my opinion, our voice should be heard absolutely. i agree with what my colleague has said. this decision of ours, this indignation of ours, must be reflected in our policies, in our development aid. we must raise our voice to defend these human rights. and i'll also be making a point about the czech republic. we've come a long way, back in the 1960s homosexuality was a crime in our country. i firmly believe that the czech parliament will take decisive steps to protect equal rights.
mr president, i am very pleased that the european parliament has prepared a strong resolution against the adoption of legislation introducing the death penalty for different sexual orientations. i would venture to say that the european commission has a bit of a chance now, and it should take the same approach as my colleagues before me. different sexual orientation is not a crime. it's not stealing, it's not raping, it's not murder, it's not killing. after all, intimidation, stoning or the threat of death for a different sexual orientation is against the rules of the european union, which is very vocal against any discrimination. i am glad that the european parliament has such a strong position and that we are sending a message to the lgbti community in uganda that we stand behind them and that we will do our utmost to ensure that they are not punished for the way they were born.
madam president, for almost two years the turkish navy has been carrying out armed attacks against ships and drilling platforms that have the consent of the republic of cyprus to explore. for example, the italian company eni and the french company total. from february to july, turkey implemented a naval blockade of the republic of cyprus. these are turkey's acts of war against the european union member states under international law. in breach of international law, turkish companies have started exploratory drilling in the area of the sea shelf under the sovereignty of the republic of cyprus. turkey has publicly claimed a number of islands in the aegean sea, including cyprus. when the turkish attack on the kurdish region of rojava in northern syria began, i proposed on behalf of the id faction some possible effective measures. but the european union's institutions are completely paralysed by the lobbying of multinational corporations such as philips and siemens, which operate factories together with aioc, owned by the turkish army, and help to arm it. this is the european union.
the first item on the agenda is the council and commission statements on the situation of migrants in bosnia, in particular in bihać (2019/2900(rsp)). before i open the debate, i would like to inform you that in order to request catch-the-eye and blue cards, it will be possible to use both the standards registration and the new system allowing members to register electronically. therefore, i invite you to always bring your voting card. should you wish to register for catch-the-eye, i invite you to do so starting from the point when we finish with the speeches on behalf of the political groups, without waiting for the end of the debate. the blue cards will be allowed only after the speeches on behalf of the political groups are finished.
i have noticed a request for a blue card question, however, we are running long with this debate so i will decline that request. i’m sorry, that concludes the catch-the-eye procedure. (addressing to cornelia ernst (off micro)) no, that concludes the catch-the-eye. i declined the blue card request because the debate is running too long and you already spoke. you are not on the catch-the-eye list. i’m sorry. we are moving on. (end of catch-the-eye procedure)
pursuant to rule 39 of the rules of procedure, i propose that the debate on this act be adjourned for the purpose of examining the legal basis, since, under article 218 (8) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the european union may only accede to an international treaty with the unanimous consent of all the member states. for example, the governments of the czech republic, slovakia and hungary cannot give this consent under their national constitutions because their parliaments have not ratified the istanbul treaty. i would stress that these countries have adopted all the required legal measures against violence against women, which are enshrined in this convention. in the criminal code, we have defined all the crimes required by the convention. we have tools that protect victims of domestic violence, like evicting the aggressor, we have publicly funded shelters for victims. what we reject is the imposition of an obligation to donate to non-governmental gender-sensitive non-profit organizations. ratification of the convention and accession by the european union as a whole will not in any way increase women's safety from violence. turkey has ratified the convention. on 8 march last year, a women's march was held in istanbul on the occasion of international women's day. on the orders of president erdoğan, he was brutally dispersed by the police and the army, who fired rubber bullets and water cannons. three hundred women were injured because they were not wearing traditional headscarves. after this experience, the very name of the islanbul convention sounds a bit strange.
i'm sorry about that. do i have to say it again? the commission has not received any comments from interested parties.
mr president, since its adoption in 2011, we have witnessed numerous attacks targeting the istanbul convention. the opponents of the convention misinterpret the scope. talk about a limitation of freedoms and re-education of our children and it works. just last week, our colleagues in the czech parliament received a letter calling for the immediate stop of the convention. there is nothing to be scared of, though. the istanbul convention is a significant cornerstone in the protection of women’s rights. it shall be a guarantee that, nowhere in europe, domestic violence and violence against women are tolerated. the convention gives us something very important – security that there will be no downgrading of the rights of women. governments change and even in the visegrad group (v4) we see calls from conservative circles to push women to have more children or to limit their rights to decide about their own body. this is something that just a few years ago would have been unimaginable. the european pirates are extremely happy to support this document.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, today we commemorate the anniversary of the velvet revolution, a non-violent positive change of regime in czechoslovakia. thanks to our previous generation, we live in a free society and we managed to integrate well into the european structures. however, the current generation needs to address another difficult task – to cope with the misuses of the tools the digital era brings and to ensure that our state works for everyone equally and is not providing benefits only to a few. twice this year, more than 250 000 people gathered in letná park in prague to express their willingness to defend our democracy and liberties in the biggest demonstrations in the czech republic since 1989. a memento of the velvet revolution is protection of freedom. i strongly believe this cannot be silenced and that in the end, as václav havel said: ‘truth and love will overcome lies and hatred’.
madam president, today marks exactly 30 years since 800,000 people gathered in prague to demand an end to one-party rule. behind this miracle, which i call the miracle of the revolution, there were thousands of victims, but also the hard work and the many sacrifices that had to be made. over the years, the countries behind the iron curtain have had to overcome many obstacles, including their success in joining the european union. this anniversary should lead us to understand what unites us, or why new barriers are being created and how to confront them, whether it is called social dumping or protectionism. we in central europe should not forget the value of freedom, democracy and the rule of law. we should be saying, "thank you for letting us do this. thank you for the freedom.
madam president, i want to pay tribute to the role of artists, intellectuals and students in the velvet revolution. they offered important reflection, new perspectives, courageous thinking, and a space for civil society to be nurtured and grow. the playwright václav havel was a key figure in the peaceful transition of what was a one-party communist state to a fully-functioning european democracy. other inspirational leaders have stood up against authoritarianism and dictatorships all around the world, providing a light in the dark when there was none. without those brave creative muses, where would we be now? in this moment of profound reflection, i’d like to ask ms von der leyen once again if she will amend the portfolio title of the commissioner-designate gabriel to innovation, youth and culture.
madam chair, 30 years after the fall of communism, it's easy to forget how violent that system was and how it was opposed to everything we consider the achievements of civilization. in post-communist countries, nostalgic voices, interestingly, only mention industrialization and some kind of security, but they skillfully avoid talking about systematic human rights violations and regime violence that have crossed national borders. croatian political emigrants were thus liquidated by yugoslav intelligence services all over the world. the regime's opponents were nowhere safe, not even as full citizens of democratic, western states. it's important to talk about this today so that the new generations know all the evils of communism and socialism. it is not a system of social justice and equality, but a criminal regime that has made human life a mere statistic and has killed millions.
madam president, i was almost ten years old at the time of the events of november 1989. we lived near the place where the special forces were coming out. i still remember the two emotions in my parents' eyes and in their voices. it was fear and it was hope. hope has won. we had free elections, freedom of speech, we split up with our slovak colleagues, but only to find ourselves in the european union and nato again. with the fall of the iron curtain and the end of the cold war, history did not end, even though we may have thought it did for a while. freedom is not a given today, the fight for human rights is not a fight of the past. we should not forget that. what does that mean for us? we should not forget all the sacrifices that have been made over the decades to be able to be here today, part of a free and democratic europe, and to fight for these ideals into the future. we should also avoid making wrong decisions. when we look around us, at crimea, or when we look at the recent decisions on the balkans, we have to remember these facts.
madam president, we are now in a situation where the future budget of the european union will be co-decided by the czech prime minister, andrej babiš, whose vital interest is subsidies for his own companies. the financial plans for europe for the next seven years are being decided by someone who is motivated by his own personal gain, someone who has, for example, like a lion, opposed the accumulation of agricultural subsidies because it is beneficial for his large agricultural enterprises. please, let's take this situation seriously. i would ask the council to take the conflict of interest in this context into account and exclude andrey babiš from the budget negotiations. otherwise, we will lose both money and the trust of our citizens, because we will not be able to make decisions based on the basic principles of just governance. the board is already facing a lawsuit over this, and i don't think there's any point in dragging this out any longer.
mr president, 30 years after the ratification of the un convention on the rights of the child, many efforts have yielded results, yet much more still needs to be done to fully protect children. the european pirates want the public authorities and police forces to have the human capacity to properly respond to the threat of criminals sharing child abuse material over the internet. we should insist on human intervention via internet hotlines, enabling the exchange of information, and helplines assisting victims of abuse. calling on private companies to monitor the entire internet in order to make sure that nobody is sending wrong images is, however, not the way forward. when effective law enforcement is increasingly outsourced to private companies and their dominant technologies with very little public intervention, we are only helping to hide the representation of abuse without any guarantee of investigation and prosecution of criminals. while children’s rights need to be protected for the reasons mentioned, we unfortunately could not support the motion for a resolution.
mr. chairman, i would like to follow up on my speakers from the pirate delegation, marcel kolaj and patrick breyer. i believe that the protection of children's rights should not be taken lightly and i want to protect them. but i do not agree with the procedure that has been inadvertently inserted into this text in the recital and article 16. that is why i abstained and i stand by my decision.
madam president, lgbti issues are a long-standing issue that i have been very actively involved in politically. it is not acceptable to me that even in the 21st century, people from the lgbti community face hateful verbal and physical attacks, sometimes it seems to me that even violent attacks. i regret that in poland, our neighboring country, they declared so-called lgbti-free zones and the polish conservative weekly gazeta subsequently distributed stickers with this inscription. and we ask: why is poland mentioned here? i don't think it will be because of the right attitude towards lgbtq. i am very sorry that homophobic and transphobic rhetoric is often combined with an emphasis on traditions and values and can, in the worst case, influence the opinions of many people and provoke hatred. but let's not just blame poland, i think all member states should act together to fight discrimination, because there is still a lot to be done. we should spread awareness and together promote a culture of tolerance and mutual respect. i thank the commissioner for her assurance that violence and discrimination against lgbti people must not only stop in poland. and i ask: how many lgbt free zones are acceptable to us? i think it was zero. but we've already let it go to a higher number. let's stop this!
madam president, i have serious doubts about the european commission's ability to act in the interests of the citizens of the european union. if they're really interested in losing their identity and taking orders from a remote command center. while taking care of the environment, they suddenly don't mind burning down brazilian forests and importing beef from half the world under the mercosur agreement. the biggest problem i see is the future of the work of commissioner vera jourova. it is supposed to be about european values such as freedom, democracy, equality, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice. how does this fit in with the multiple differences between countries in agricultural subsidies or the declaration of a cordon sanitaire against members elected by citizens who think differently? under all sorts of noble pretexts, censorship is introduced and dissenting opinions are punished. i see the slow realization of the terrifying visions of george orwell's famous novel 1984.
mr president, first let me congratulate madam vice-president, and wish her every success in her new assignment. democracies are fragile things and some of us know that better than others. the recent 30th anniversary of the velvet revolution reminded us of that fact once again. we must remain vigilant with regard to foreign interference, which could undermine the very basis of our societies: free and democratic elections. we must be also vigilant with regard to foreign actors using domestic proxies, which the commission has identified as a growing threat. we need to reinforce our resilience. the european democracy action plan should be a positive step towards combating electoral interference, but in developing it we must ensure that we strike the right balance between targeted action and protecting our democracy. yet the authorities cannot work alone. the online environment is ripe for foreign interference. therefore, we must have the right tools at our disposal to take action against disinformation. we need to take action to increase trust in our democracies, our governments, media and online platforms themselves.
madam president, i think that the settlement issue is a part of the broader framework of the negotiations between israel and palestine, and singling it out does not contribute to the promotion of peace. israel is an important partner for the european union in the area of security, in the area of economy, and with shared values. we need israel and israel needs us. the eu has to remain relevant in a future political process between israel and palestine, and to be received as an honest and balanced broker it’s important for the eu not to undermine its position by mishandling this. peace between israelis and palestinians can only be when the palestinians are under one legitimate, democratic leadership that rejects all violence, and europe here has to be not just a payer but also a player. the eu must therefore use this leverage to end the ‘pay-for-slay’ scheme, to end the systematic incitement of the palestinian authority and, last but not least, to work to phase out a united nations relief and works agency (unrwa) whose mandate perpetuates the israeli-palestinian conflict.
the debate is closed.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in the broader middle east region, including the crisis in iran, iraq and lebanon (2019/2917(rsp)). i remind you that it is possible to request catch-the-eye and blue cards using both the standard registration and the electronic system. instructions are available at the entrance of the hemicycle. blue-card requests are accepted only after the round of the speakers on behalf of the political groups. the debate will be opened by the vice-president of the commission, high / representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, ms mogherini.
madam president, i voted yesterday against the new european commission because of the programme it is planning to put forward, a utopian programme which will significantly reduce the competitiveness of the countries of the european union. it's easy to set goals that satisfy different activists, but it's not realistic to meet those goals or even get close to them. the result of this green utopia will only be the devastation of european industry, higher energy prices and growing public discontent. industrial enterprises that are not able to respond to the changes will be closed and their market share will be taken by chinese, indian or american companies without environmental limits and controls. and this green revolution will have to be paid for by our citizens from their taxes. there will be no impact on the world's climate because the european union is the only one that is taking these steps.
madam chairman, i didn't vote for the 2020 budget yesterday either. unfortunately, expenditure is still rising, even in areas which have nothing to do with the european union's powers. they do not enhance the competitiveness of the european union or its member states. this is a waste of taxpayers' money that cannot be justified. the subsidies, which the european union considers essential, are a cohesion tool that is rather harmful in many areas. i am talking in particular about subsidies to businesses, which should also be restricted. those are the reasons i didn't support the budget.
madam president, i will begin by asking why the commission is calling this parliament to the agenda and not announcing it at a press conference, as has always been the custom. it's not gonna be the carbon footprint, because we've only been here for two hours, and we've been digging in here from all over europe. it's because the program is radical, it's called "the work", but it's actually a green revolution. we are conservatives and we don't believe in revolution. yes, we want to be responsible for the planet, we want to protect nature, we feel it is our duty, but the price must not be the rape of procedures where one goes to war with the other, nor the disproportionate costs that will only lead to the coming of another revolution that will rob us of the most precious thing we have, the friendly cooperation of the european peoples and freedom. the green deal must not become another communist manifesto, this time in green.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, you have called us to this emergency meeting to present this green new deal, but the president is leaving soon. if this is the respect the commission intends to have for the only democratically elected institution, then, if you will allow me, we are very, very concerned. so let us hope that these are not just promises! mr timmermans, your commission cannot afford to let down those who want to live and work in a healthy environment, who want to eat healthy food, who want to make bridges, roads and schools safe when climate change threatens them. is his plan reassuring enough? allow me to be skeptical, especially because the real revolution must begin within us. there will be no revolution unless we stop chasing growth at all costs, or without a total rethinking of the macroeconomic rules. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i think it is a good one. the just transition fund doesn't have to be a rainy day fund to clear your conscience. the planetary emergency needs an emergency response but also vision and not financial alchemy... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, mr. vice president, i have to go. all eu countries have signed the paris agreement, which shows their support for the eu's green agenda and its main goal of climate neutrality by 2050. and it's not just about climate, it's about clean air, it's about biodiversity, it's about clean oceans. and our green agenda should show the world that you can do this by growing the economy, by sustaining growth, by creating jobs. to do this, we must first of all be moderate in formulating the first phase of this programme (the one up to 2030), prepare a detailed impact assessment that will answer many of the questions we have today, and also maintain technological neutrality, and perhaps - most importantly - take into account the fundamental differences between the regions of the union at the start of the programme. that is why we need a separate programme in the multiannual union budget, a just transition fund, especially for the mining regions shown on our map.
madam president, mr vice-president timmermans, i congratulate you on what you have presented today, a very comprehensive package and one which gives us great hope for the future of the citizens of europe and of the european union. you said in this document something very important: all citizens and all member states and all regions must be supported because no one should be left behind. i want to ask you to look at the just transition fund because, as was presented last week in the european parliament - i'm talking about romania - the cost of meeting the 2030 targets is almost 4 percent of gross domestic product and an amount of almost 80 billion euros to be spent in each of the following years until 2030, so almost eight billion euros annually. it's a lot of money. but we have to deal with the coal regions (two hundred and a few thousand families) - this cost is very high - and at the same time we have to make sure that we have energy security. i count on you and your willingness to help us and the european commission's involvement so that we can achieve our 2030 targets.
madam president, the commission's first appearance to present the green pact is a sign of its priorities and political determination, and my group is grateful to it. we are presented with necessary and ambitious measures. the first climate law, reinforcing our ambition to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, protecting the competitiveness of a european industry that innovates and does not pollute and protecting biodiversity by the hand of farmers and livestock farmers in a new community policy. it is indeed a great challenge and a great opportunity. and this green deal is a new growth strategy for europe that must put us at the forefront of knowledge, innovation and technology - which will be green - but which must also create jobs and new opportunities for our businesses. all of this in a transition that must be socially just, must be responsible, must be equitable and inclusive. it will have the support of our group.
madam president, mr vice-president timmermans, there is no doubt that the fight against global warming cannot wait, but it cannot end up disappointing either. from this perspective, it is essential to have a european industrial strategy capable of developing technologies which have a decisive impact on reducing emissions while at the same time gaining global competitiveness. this requires that the emphasis on technological innovation be as strong and as determined as the emphasis on emission reduction targets and translate into very concrete decisions such as making a major effort to incentivise and finance technological innovation. and there is the framework programme for research and innovation. there is no doubt that governments can reach many agreements in madrid, but here a decision has to be taken on the budget for the next research and innovation framework programme. the green deal is a really ambitious project. we all share the need to tackle climate change in a determined way, but we must move forward and not let down.
president, commissioner, i am absolutely convinced that we must take action against climate change. the weather conditions are becoming more extreme and the harvests are failing. but we cannot leave this to one sector or one country. we need to take this european and make sure the rest of the world follows. we need to do this together with people and businesses, but we can only do this if we take their concerns and challenges into account, because otherwise we will not succeed. support is crucial. it's no use if people can't pay their bills or if we're pushing our economy into a recession. i therefore call for a shift from green idealism to realism and common sense. because we don't live in a paper reality. we need to take measures based on science and effectiveness, such as the emissions trading system. we need to invest in innovation, because that creates jobs. we must take advantage of the european economies of scale. and whether we like it or not, we don't have the luxury of relying on gut feelings to rule out technologies like nuclear power or carbon storage.
madam president, vice-president of the commission, climate change is the most pressing challenge we are facing. it has a wide impact across the world. it change fast our society. i am confident that there will be a response to these challenges and i’m totally decided, as president of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), in contributing to achieve the ambitious targets on climate policies with a coherent industrial policy, with a just, inclusive transition and maintaining the security of energy supply in the union. building on the success of the energy union, we need to strengthen our efforts to improve energy efficiency, speed up deployment of clean energy and technologies, increase interconnectivity between regions and further integrate our energy single market. in securing our lead in tackling climate change, we need also to work towards climate innovation and digitisation, increasing the number of jobs and also remaining competitive and assuring growth.
the scientific community has long since done its job and demonstrated the urgency of the matter. the young have put the issue at the top of the political agenda. and now here is the european new green deal. we are not talking about an environmental programme or a programme to combat climate change. this is the european project, not just for the years to come but for the decades to come. this project, which is part of the major investment programme, has the potential to benefit all european citizens. for example, consider the right to clean air in all our cities and towns. for example, think of the hundreds of thousands of jobs that are created and where they are lost, we take people to prepare them for another job. for example, consider that our energy bill will drop because we invest in new buildings. we need to extend this to the rest of the world. that's why trade will become one of the essential components of the new green deal.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, your concept is in many ways based on fiscal and financial instruments and will therefore undoubtedly have an impact on the lives and wallets of all our citizens and businesses. i believe that you want citizens across the eu to support your goals in the long term. that can only happen if you tell them the truth, not just about the goals, but also about the implications of the proposed changes. that is why i would ask you to ensure that all the proposals and future decisions are accompanied by transparent and truthful studies of the economic and social impact. not all regions in the eu have the same starting position. we have coal, steel, automotive and other industrial regions that without a viable strategy and sufficient funding will not be the winners of this process. please let's not forget that. it is nothing less than the social and economic cohesion of europe. ambitions look good on paper, but how we achieve them is more important. this is why it is important to be open to all technologies, including zero-emission technologies such as nuclear power.
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by lídia pereira, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2006/112/ec as regards introducing certain requirements for payment service providers (com(2018)0812 – c8-0015/2019 – 2018/0412(cns)) (a9—0048/2019), and– the report by lídia pereira, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (eu) no 904/2010 as regards measures to strengthen administrative cooperation in order to combat vat fraud (com(2018)0813 – c8-0016/2019 – 2018/0413(cns)) (a9-0047/2019). i remind you that it is possible to request catch-the-eye and blue cards using both the standard registration and the electronic system. instructions are available at the entrance of the hemicycle.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am very proud to stand in front of this assembly for the first time as the commissioner for economy. i look forward to the important work ahead of us, and the fight against tax fraud is high on our respective agendas. i would like to thank the rapporteur, lídia pereira, and the members of committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) for their excellent work on the two proposals we are discussing. vat fraud is a major issue affecting all member states and citizens alike, and it is important that measures aimed at attacking vat fraud can be subject to a democratic debate in this plenary. the present proposal should be examined in line with the vat and e—commerce package that was adopted by the council in december 2017, and will enter into application in january 2021. the proposal provides tax authorities with a powerful tool that will allow them to detect and fight vat fraud in the e-commerce sector. european action is absolutely necessary. in 2015, as the rapporteur remembers, eur 5 billion of vat was lost in the european union solely on imports of goods. similar numbers have been reported with regard to supplies of services. this problem is also likely to keep growing in future, considering the growth rate of e-commerce in europe. the commission has proposed to create an obligation for payment service providers established in the union to transmit data on the beneficiary of cross-border payments they execute. this obligation was designed to limit administrative burdens in that regard. the requested information is already available and used by payment service providers to process transactions. although this proposal constitutes a big step forward in the fight against vat fraud, there is still much to do. this year’s commission study on the vat gap shows that the member states were in general losing eur 137 billion in 2017, and these numbers are obviously still too high. because of this, i intend to make the fight against tax fraud a top priority of my mandate. of course the fight against tax fraud goes hand in hand with improving tax compliance. this is why these two aspects will be part of a new action plan i will present next year. eu business must be able to access the eu market without constraints and unfair competition by those that are not compliant. eu citizens must be able to legally access the worldwide market and benefit from the redistribution of the revenue collected.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are again faced each year with a vat gap of eur 137.5 billion, or 11.2% of expected vat revenues, with cross-border vat fraud of over eur 50 billion and with growing tax fraud in online commerce, where over 90% of transactions are handled through payment service providers. i am therefore very pleased, firstly, commissioner, with your announcements about the action plan, but also with the two reports by my colleague mrs pereira, because with both reports we are taking a very important step towards creating a single european vat area and these measures complement the new vat framework for online trade, which is due to come into force in january 2021. we urgently need a system of common rules instead of a system of exceptions and loopholes. we must put an end to vat fraud and we must stop the unacceptable theft of taxpayers' money. i therefore say to the council, despite the positive decisions of 8 november: whoever blocks more european and common european tax policy is supporting the fraudsters and supporting waste. we must therefore fight this instrument of unanimity. we need more cooperation between tax authorities and payment service providers, harmonised requirements for payment service providers for cross-border payments, access to information by anti-fraud agencies and a new central electronic system for storing payment information.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i have to ask you to leave. one of the european union's most important tasks is social justice, ensuring a life worthy of every citizen of the union. and a basic condition for that is fair taxation. the fight against crossborder tax evasion is therefore one of the most important tasks of the european union, and of us as members of parliament. we cannot continue to allow a whole series of multinationals to avoid taxation across europe because of loopholes, lack of cooperation between member states or the cynicism and cynical oversight of a few member states. as a hungarian representative, i come from a country with the highest vat rate in the european union and indeed in the world, at 27%. it also means that my country is one of the tax cheats' favorite target areas, hunting grounds. as a hungarian, i know exactly what it's like to have public money go to crooks. tax evasion is not the brainchild of a few international con artists, as it causes 137 billion euros of damage across europe. tax fraud is therefore a crime that seriously threatens the functioning of education, health, social services and public services in general, undermines social justice, our common europe without borders, and of course destroys european democracy and endangers the peace of everyday life. it is therefore very important that we have been able to draw up jointly the draft measures on crossborder vat fraud and to put them on the table in parliament. as we promised, we've worked with you to make sure that these taxes are not just paid by those who work for a living, by family businesses, but that no one cheats, no one exploits their privilege. these proposals will strengthen cooperation and exchange of information between member states, ensure long-term data capture and thus ensure effective action against cross-border tax fraud. so i ask you to vote yes to this, each and every one of these proposals deserves to become law.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, first i would like to welcome the commissioner’s commitment that he has just articulated to make vat and tax fraud in general his priority. commissioner, i think you would also have huge support in this house. you mentioned that the numbers of the value added tax gap are slowly and gradually decreasing but, according to the commission estimates and indications, it should still be around eur 130 billion in 2018 and that is indeed still quite a high number. as was also mentioned by other colleagues, the vat carousel frauds, whereby criminals abuse the eu cross—border trading system, contribute eur 50 billion on average per year in lost revenue for member states’ tax authorities. the legislation we are debating here today will help drastically reduce the revenues lost to vat fraud in our financial systems. their losses are damaging not only to the governments. they are also felt throughout the economic chain and therefore damage the vast majority of legitimate businesses, particularly small and medium-sized companies in the european union. i therefore fully support the efforts to address the deficiencies in vat regimes in europe. from the european parliament perspective, we have emphasised the importance of legislation being appropriate for the modern age. this is something we will need to monitor on a continuous basis to ensure that our rules are fit for purpose and achieve the goal of increasing the efficiency of vat collection and combating fraud. we must not forget the time and money it takes, especially for smaller companies, to collect and report their appropriate vat information to authorities. therefore, for our group it is important that the new rules do not add an undue administrative burden which may hamper the efforts of smaller businesses to grow, particularly across borders within the single market. european legislation in this area needs to be future-oriented with a clear focus on ensuring it can be applied as business models evolve in the coming years. i therefore appreciate that the parliament has specifically pointed to the digital arena in this report as our commercial environment becomes ever more digital. i would also encourage vat authorities to consider the development of artificial-intelligence-based solutions to tackle fraud. specifically, artificial intelligence could be used to create a risk model that would help identify anomalies in the system. in this way, the ai could minimise hours spent by officials in compiling such information. by increasing efficiency, we can target carousel frauds in particular in a more effective manner. let me conclude by thanking the rapporteur and colleagues for their cooperation on these two files. we have drafted two reports that reflect parliament’s priorities, particularly as regards the administrative cooperation and payment service providers. i believe that these are the right steps needed in the area of tax collection, which enhance cross-border cooperation on the one hand and help fight tax fraud on the other.
madam president, journalists are in the profession of defending democracy and freedom, and we should be doing the same. truthful information and transparent action should be taken for granted. yet we are confronted with cases where investigative journalists lose their lives in unclear circumstances. this is the case of maltese journalist daphne galizia. it's been several years since this lady lost her life, and her relatives and friends, but also her colleagues, continue to live in uncertainty about what really happened. it is right that we have put this item on the agenda at the end of the year. we must not be silent about the murder of journalists. the conclusions of the inquiry are unclear at the moment, but we as the european parliament should send a clear signal that we want the murder to be explained and that anyone responsible for it be held accountable, even if they are in a high position. we're all equal before the law. ladies and gentlemen, i come from the czech republic and in our neighbouring country, slovakia, a journalist, ján kuciak, was also murdered, as my colleagues from slovakia have said. i'd like to include his name here, because both cases follow exactly the same line. i would very much like both cases to be properly investigated, not just to give their families peace of mind, but to send a clear signal that we can speak the truth, we can write the truth, and that none of us will be in danger of losing our lives because of it.
madam president, i would like to speak on behalf of the pirate delegation. first, it needs to be mentioned that we consider vat fraud an important topic that needs to be addressed. in this regard, we are grateful that it is being worked on. however, we can’t support the way the issue is being handled. the whole concept of retaining huge amounts of data without any clear selection of what is really needed and what is thought unnecessary is problematic. at this moment, just 25 cross—border payments quarterly, including offline payments by credit card, are enough to store payees’ data, including credit card numbers, for up to five years. this will create huge amounts of data that will flow with little restriction through databases, seriously lowering privacy and incurring infrastructure costs for such databases, meaning that this whole solution is completely unproportionate to real vat fraud checks. yes, we need to use modern technologies to help fight tax fraud. however, in this case we are using a needlessly massive tool that is well capable of causing much more harm than good.
i'm just repeating what i said in english to the previous report, because they're deeply connected. i consider the fight against vat evasion to be very important, as do most other pirates. but at the same time, we think that the solution we're proposing is completely unsuitable for the problem we're facing. with this solution, we would store all payments made by a payer who makes more than 25 payments in a three-month period, which we consider to be a completely inadequate invasion of privacy. at the same time, the data thus retained will flow across europe with very few restrictions, risking the leakage of this highly sensitive data that tells us so much about our citizens. in view of this, we have decided to abstain and consider it appropriate given the complex nature of the matter we are discussing here.
madam president, the first audit prepared by the european commission, which has not yet been published, has confirmed andrej babiš's conflict of interest. his trust fund structure, which is controlled by people close to him and which can be revoked by granny at any time to get his property back, just didn't hold up. in the subsequent discussion on how much to repay, any distinction between agrofert and the czech state was completely erased. the former agroferta managers are now ministers and mps, but their tasks have not changed. the prime minister's firm is a matter of national interest, which the prime minister is willing to lead the country into conflict with the rest of europe. we are looking at a demonstration of the systemic problem of controlling the use of common european resources. when the bible was designed, its authors probably did not imagine that anyone could control the machinery of government in such a way that he would control himself through it. yet, in hungary, malta and the czech republic, we are in exactly this situation. today's debate is not just about money being misused from the european budget. today's debate is mainly about andrej babiš using the czech state as a conduit for money into his own pocket and then using that money to finance his next political campaign. we need to find systemic solutions, whether through strengthening the european public prosecutor or reforming the common agricultural policy. the european commission should declassify the remaining documents and come up with a proposal for measures to prevent andrej babiš from misusing european money through the european council.
madam president, the discussion of this item is of course also related to the situation in the czech republic, where the prime minister is also one of the largest recipients of public money. i don't want to discuss this particular case here, we have to discuss it at home. however, i would like to call on the commission to be more transparent in its reports, to publish the findings of the investigations and also to publish the positions of the individual member states. we are in a situation where the next multiannual financial framework is being negotiated, existing programmes are being exhausted and many of the institutions deciding on the payment of grants do not know whether and to whom they can continue to grant them. the czech government does not want to publish the audit conclusion because the european commission allegedly considers it confidential and prohibits publication and does not provide it to the authorities deciding on subsidies. they also pay subsidies out of taxpayers' money, in this case to a powerful oligarch. i also lodged an interpellation with the commission in the same case.
madam chairman, we have a record. nine czechs are speaking today on one specific point. half of the national deputies. why would you do that? it's about money, nothing less, nothing more. the czechs are afraid of being shamed into wearing a coat. on the one hand, the czech government is headed by a prime minister and a businessman who draws and consumes. on the other side is the european commission, which logically blames prime minister babiš for a conflict of interest. the first argues with czech laws, the second with european legislation. we need to get this cleared up, and we need to do it fast. it's going to be too late. next year, a new budget is being negotiated. normally i say that subsidies are like the plague, the disease spreads fast. but we can't do the green revolution without money. i therefore ask the european commission to resolve this particular conflict of interest issue quickly and transparently. i've already interviewed you, but we're still waiting for a response.
i think it is very good, madam president, that we are talking here in the plenary about the financial interests of the european union, and specifically about the money of all europeans. this issue, as i said, is currently connected to perhaps the biggest conflict of interest that we have ever dealt with in the european union, and that is unfortunately the conflict of interest of czech prime minister andrej babiš. i am very pleased, commissioner, that after some hesitation, the european commission's experts have finally carried out an audit and that you have therefore finally issued a decision. i think it's important that this decision be transparent, that it be credible and that people believe the arguments you're making in it. because andrej babiš controls the media, has enormous media influence and of course presents the whole thing as evil brussels officials attacking the brave andrej babiš. that's why it's bad that the final report isn't public, even though it's final. please publish this report, take steps to increase transparency so that the citizens of the european union know the official arguments and believe that andrej babiš is illegally draining european subsidies and thus their money. hundreds of thousands of people are demonstrating in the czech republic and wanting clear answers from europe.
madam president, first of all i am glad that the president of the cont committee has come here with a clarification question and i am glad that, in her reply to one of my colleagues, she has pointed out that in fact 95-96% of the funds are correct, because all european citizens are listening to us here and i would not like to see all european funds being wasted and there is corruption with all european funds. but, commissioner, i appreciate your honesty. you said you needed to document yourself to answer some of the questions, the ones our colleague reported today. i think there are solutions. conflict of interest is not defined equally in all member states as we speak, and imbalances are emerging. then we have to prevent, as has been said before, and i think the things that have been highlighted here, namely: money, for example, for farmers. for years, and in my country, i've seen that uncultivated land is also given. you have to give it to the people who work the land and not to the people who have accumulated and kept the land and exploited the others, after all. then you have to make an anti-fraud strategy. of course we have an anti-fraud strategy, but you have to improve the mechanisms so that, year by year, we reduce fraud and corruption on european funds and the responsibility is shared at the level of the member states as well.
madam president, i regret seeing that some colleagues are using this debate to generate national—oriented political attacks instead of having a serious and constructive discussion. for this i would advise them to go to their national parliament. however, let me contribute to the discussion in a factual manner, as the shadow rapporteur for the common provision regulation, also called cpr, and outline some planned future improvements in the use of the new fund. cpr aims to establish a single rule book for the period 21-27, including enabling conditions, a key element for the control of member states’ fund spending. programmes funded by eu resources will have to respect enabling conditions and preconditions in order to achieve effective implementation. if conditions are not fulfilled, member states will not be able to claim for the payment of their expenditures. on top of that, besides enabling conditions, cpr new rules require to measure the performance of the funds. for example, the member states will have to conduct a mid—term review. so there are tools.
mr president, the disability strategy 2020 is coming to an end, so let us now try to create a new, more ambitious one that can implement all the objectives of the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. this convention has been signed and ratified by all the member states, which is a big commitment. the commissioner said that disabled people should be treated as fully equal, and that we should take special account of the rights of women and children with disabilities. the accessibility of buildings, including offices, cultural and other institutions, remains a major problem. speaking of accessibility of buildings, it is appropriate to mention the facilitation of movement for people with disabilities. it would also be appropriate to pursue the uniform treatment of the discount on motorway charges for disabled persons within the schengen area, the barrier-free use of means of transport in public transport or a uniform disability card. by educating and empowering people with disabilities, we will make a significant contribution to reducing their... (the president withdrew the floor.)
mr president, commissioner, i congratulate you on your responsible role. population and species diversity are essential for agricultural production, for our food security and for the improvement of biodiversity. farming properly can make a significant contribution to these issues. as you know, we are currently carrying out a reform of the agricultural policy, and that is a great opportunity, not a risk, as we hear so often here. but it is essential that we find enough funding in the cap and that we include the investments of our farmers in these areas in the category of climate and biodiversity expenditure. investment is also needed in the development, alternatives and deployment of new technologies. i trust that you will support your colleague wojciechowski in these areas in the months ahead.
mr. chairman, i often warn against rash, ideologically motivated actions and i warn that these actions will have consequences. ten years ago, this parliament approved the promotion of biofuels in the name of green ideology. the result is a thousand yellow ribbons everywhere you look. the czech prime minister takes the subsidies and then he makes a profit from it, a conflict of interest, we talked about it yesterday. the fields are full of herbicides and pesticides, roundup they call it. the victims? millions of bees and other pollinators are dying, tragedy. that is why i was happy to support today's initiative, but we should not forget that the european parliament also paved the way for this tragedy ten years ago.
madam president, i would like to say to mr borrell that we are talking about the recent leaks, the recent leaks that reveal that chinese ambassadors and high-ranking government officials have been straight-up lying to us over the mass cultural genocide that china commits. yesterday, i was fortunate enough to meet with mr ilham tohti’s daughter, jewher, but it could not have been a meeting with mr ilham tohti himself because he has been locked up in a concentration camp and we haven’t heard about his whereabouts or wellbeing for two years. jewher doesn’t oppose china, i don’t oppose china. she just wants her family to be safe and together. at the same time as this genocide is taking place, in my country the richest man, petr kellner, has been manipulating the czech media image of china to look more business positive – business! excuse me, but if i made this speech in china, i and my family would also end up in a goddam concentration camp. we europeans have the power to stand up for fundamental rights against china’s digital dictatorship. let’s start with targeted economic sanctions. mr borrell: act!
the debate is closed. the vote will be held at a future part-session. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation of human rights and democracy in nicaragua (2019/2978(rsp)).
i have received five motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 132(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will be held on thursday, 19 december 2019.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the violent crackdown on recent protests in iran (2019/2993(rsp)).
