i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. today we are discussing measures to safeguard the health of our 500 million citizens in europe. the parliament's special committee has examined the eu's authorisation procedure for plant protection products in depth. the protection of users and consumers was our top priority in the preparation of this report. i myself grew up on a farm, i spent my youth on pesticides and i know how important the correct use is and how important pesticides are for agriculture. at the same time, i want your children and mine to be able to continue to eat european fruit and vegetables without worry. two questions have therefore occupied my attention during this special committee. firstly, how do we continue to ensure that the food we put on the table in europe is safe? secondly, how do we ensure that our european farmers can produce these foods in the long term? what have we found after nine months of careful study? three guesses: the eu's admission procedure is the strictest in the world! that's good news. but the principle is always the same: even the best can still improve. our motto was therefore: evolution instead of revolution, development instead of revolution. so in order not to reinvent the wheel, we focused on three things: first, science; second, transparency and independence; and third, innovation. the first is science. for me, it was and is crucial that the admission process is science-based. on such an important question, scientific research is the key. i do not think that interests or ideologies have a place here. this decision must not be based on politics or emotions. secondly, independence and transparency. it is crucial that the procedure remains independent and transparent. the eu commission, not the industry, will therefore decide which member state is responsible for testing an active substance. this strengthens the independence of the process. the aim is to increase public access to studies while preserving the competitiveness of our european industry. the third is innovation. i want to promote innovation. new, more efficient products are the key to more sustainable use. this must be supported by a smooth authorisation procedure. allow me to take a quick look at the future: the way agriculture looks is going to be radically changed by digitization once again. it helps to reduce the farmer's dependence on resources. we need to stay on top of things here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. i am convinced that our recommendations will make our european authorisation procedure more efficient, transparent and robust. why would you do that? we are creating a high level of protection for consumers and users. at the same time, we guarantee reliable processes for industry and agriculture and encourage innovation. let us put these recommendations to the vote by a large majority on wednesday. i would like to thank my co-rapporteur, bart staes, for his excellent cooperation and also all the other shadow rapporteurs. i look forward to the vote on wednesday and now the debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is about a year since the use of glyphosate was allowed to continue. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the failure of the council to take the necessary measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is properly implemented. i can only partially agree with the pest report because it undermines the work already done by the commission and it has more input from lobby groups than from the scientific side. the proposal to give more responsibility to efsa sounds like a good idea but only if the agency has the resources to do so. but we also leave the responsibility to the countries, to the local farmers. the local farmer knows best how to produce sustainable food. let's ask science and not just big corporations how we want to create a greener and healthier future. i want europe to have a healthy agriculture in the future and not an agricultural industry.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we need to restore public confidence, because we have lost a lot of confidence in the european union's processes in the glyphosate approval process. in fact, it seems to me that the interests of chemistry were more important than the interests of the environment and health. we must correct that. there's a lot of bad in the admissions process. but we have to rely on chemistry to tell us whether certain pesticides are harmful or not. that can't stay that way. we need more independent research, that's clear. we need full transparency. and we can really apply that to the new food law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so, that's the point: full transparency. but we also have to actually promote alternatives to this kind of chemical agriculture. we cannot continue to take the use of chemicals for granted. this can only be the absolute exception.
member of the commission. – madam president, i have listened very carefully to the interventions of the honourable members and i am grateful for them. allow me to react to some of them. ms ries raised the question of co-formulants. we are working on both the list and on the criteria. as of december, we discussed with member states the first list of unacceptable co-formulants, including those already identified by the member states, and discussions are ongoing. speaking about products coming from third countries and maximum residual levels that mep marias just raised, in principle the same maximum residual levels apply for imported and domestically produced food and feed commodities – absolutely, crystal clear. where no maximum residual level exists for a commodity not produced in the eu or because a substance is not approved, so-called import tolerance can be requested for commodities produced in the third country. however, such import tolerances can only be granted if confirmed by the european food safety authority (efsa), following a thorough scientific evaluation that the risk to consumers can be excluded and therefore the high level of protection in the eu is fully ensured. please convey this message to all the people who ask about the possibility of regulating issues related to goods coming from third countries. of course, generally, some blame me because i am poisoning people. it is strange for me, a little bit. my father taught me the first rule: son, don’t lie to people. my message is, with elections coming up, don’t lie. this is a very good message – a simple message. the second simple message is please trust in science. if you trust in science then the situation will be more or less ok. i think it is a good opportunity now to listen to your conclusions and recommendations. we will give very careful consideration to your final document and we can take it into account in our refit evaluation that i will present to you in the first half of this year. i strongly believe that we share the same goal – to maintain food safety, protect citizens and animal and plant health, and safeguard the environment. i think we are generally doing a good job.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. we've seen -- the emotional discourse has shown -- that we have very different views on this issue. i think it is a success that we have managed to produce a consensus report across party lines and across our ideologies. we are thus strengthening the science-based approach that we so badly need in this approval process. i repeat, emotions have no place here. i am addressing colleagues - some of whom are no longer here - such as mr waitz, who generally denigrates pesticides and assumes that all pesticides involve unacceptable risks, but at the same time does not mention that copper is the biggest poison for the soil in organic farming, or mrs hazekamp, who still talks about agricultural poisoning after a year of debate, or mrs rivasi, who still talks about scandal, although the report says the opposite. so i wish we would stop playing the environment and agriculture against each other, because they go hand in hand. we need more innovation for more efficient and sustainable products, and this must be supported by the policy framework that the european commission is also setting up, commissioner. we all have the same goal: a reliable admission procedure. and i think we're improving that now with these recommendations. i hope that the commission will take up our proposals.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 16 january 2019. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the report by cláudia monteiro de aguiar, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2006/1/ec on the use of vehicles hired without drivers for the carriage of goods by road (com (2017) 0282 c8-0172/2017 2017/0113 cod)) (a8-0193/2018).
thank you, commissioner. we wish you the same, of course.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 january 2019. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the report of ms angelika mlinar, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on gender mainstreaming in the european parliament (2018/2162 (ini)) (a8-0429/2018).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. this report on gender mainstreaming was adopted by the committee on women's rights and gender equality. of the 25 members, only three are men, three to 22 - so much for gender balance. we always say that it is essential for our democracy to put gender mainstreaming at the centre of our political thinking and action. but it is a trap. we're forcing women into the economy and in the process, into jobs and positions that many of them don't want. we force them to give up and keep children in nurseries as early as possible. the commitment to education is necessary but lost. it's not doing the mothers or the children any favors. equal rights are not equal treatment. eu stands for 'united in diversity' and is the official name of the eu. where is the diversity when women and men are made identical? we should celebrate the differences that make us male and female. let each one decide for himself what career he or she will pursue. this could also lead to more men on the committee on women's rights and gender equality.
i would also be glad if more men were members of the femm committee, because it would be good for our parliament if the gentlemen would also get involved.
i have to say, madam president, i am very surprised to read the draft text on page 17, paragraph 40, in which you are railing against the court of justice of the european union and, on the other hand, supporting a decision by the president which is clearly not lawful. the fact is that the court of justice of the european union has condemned and annulled the unacceptable attacks on freedom of expression in this house. the politically correct censorship of you on the left side of the room has been given a resounding slap in the face. while you are constantly inciting against hungary, poland and now also romania and openly discriminating against these states, this draft text is an attempt to interfere in the work of the court of justice of the european union and to protect the judges. you have to respect and honor the recent court ruling, which is a victory for free speech. fortunately, more and more voices are being heard, voices like mine, who reject the denial of natural sexes and the associated denial of the difference of every human being, and dare to say so openly. yes, a family for me is man, woman and children. the only way for europe to have a future is for us to finally reverse the abnormal policy of hyper-individualisation and recognise that gender is more than a social construct.
i have to say, madam president, it is one year since the european parliament adopted the so-called dual-use regulation with a 92% majority. it's designed to limit the export of surveillance technology to dictatorships. because it is a european technology that is used in many parts of the world to arrest journalists and opponents of the regime. i only remember the khashoggi case, iran and then the collapse of the arab spring. this dual-use regulation still needs to be approved by the council of ministers. but he's been refusing for a year. first it was sweden and finland, because of their companies nokia and ericsson, now it's france. it is incomprehensible that france refuses to put an end to the daily violations of human rights committed with the help of european and especially french technology, despite the passionate and professional efforts of the romanian presidency. i'm very disappointed. the french government must also respect fundamental human rights.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. thank you very much for your contribution, commissioner. but what does the council want to talk to us about today? i'm asking you. would you like to talk to us about the 40 000 people who have died at the eu's external borders since 2000 or the 18 000 since 2014? do you want to talk to us about the missing children, the tens of thousands who just disappeared on the unsafe routes to europe? do you want to talk to us about the women being raped in libyan prisons? is that what you want? you want to do that? i'm asking you, the council. that would be exciting. for a year and a half now they have been blocking progressive proposals, proposals which parliament has adopted by a two-thirds majority, and not only with regard to dublin, but also with regard to the guidelines for admission. you're blocking this! they block a positive, progressive asylum policy. they are complicit in the many deaths at the eu's external borders. i am ashamed of you, of you, of the council, and i think you have actually failed to speak about human rights.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. a few days ago, the cynical game of 49 people saved from drowning by ngos was finally over. the refugees on the sea-watch 3 and sea-eye boats were brought ashore in malta after 18 days, traumatized and exhausted. the same question will soon be asked again: will the rescue ships be given the safe harbour to which they are entitled under the law of the sea and will the refugees be distributed throughout the eu, or will the member states fail again? that is why i am calling for a solution immediately. there must be a coalition of willing member states that agree on a permanent distribution key. the council still refuses to seriously negotiate the european parliament's decision on the dublin iv regulation. this decision contains exactly the solidarity distribution that is always talked about. that is my vision of a europe of solidarity. the european union must finally launch its own maritime rescue programme to put an end to the deaths in the mediterranean.
the president of the council. i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of taxation of capital, which is to be introduced in the next few years. i am pleased to be here again as your guest in the european parliament and to present the results of the austrian presidency of the council today. we have had six months of intensive work, a very dense programme of work, but above all, very good cooperation with the european parliament. i would therefore like to begin by thanking you for the good cooperation we have been able to ensure between the commission, the council and the european parliament over the last six months. i am grateful to the presidency for the support it has given me. we have always attached great importance to full cooperation with the european parliament during our presidency of the council. i would therefore like to thank juliane bogner-strauss and karoline edtstadler, who represented us here as president of the council during the plenary sessions. but i would also like to thank you all for the 161 trilogue negotiations that have taken place together, in which 53 agreements have been reached. i am grateful to the many people in parliament, the council and the commission, but above all because there was a willingness to compromise on the part of all those involved. i would like to thank the austrian presidency team, in particular our ambassador niki marschik in brussels, but also alexander schallenberg and the two teams in brussels and vienna. since each presidency is only one link in a chain, i should like to thank our trio partners, estonia and bulgaria, very warmly. i would also like to take this opportunity to wish the romanian presidency all the best for these intensive six months. ladies and gentlemen, i was here with you in july and i said that we should not take the european union for granted, but that we should work every day to improve it. although there are sometimes difficult debates on specific issues, i said at the time that i believe there will always be more that unites us than can ever divide us. i would say the same thing today. we have always had the challenge as the european union that the european union is very complex in its structure, that decision-making sometimes takes time, often seems almost impossible, but that there is still so much that unites us, that holds us together, that there is so much that we have to tackle, work and solve together, that there is no alternative to this cooperation and, above all, to the will to find compromises. i am glad that we have been able to reach some compromises with you over the past six months, and i hope that this has helped to move the european union in the right direction on many issues. given the current situation, but also given the scale of the issue, perhaps you will allow me to begin with brexit and the challenges it presents. when we took over the presidency in july, we were entitled to do everything we could to preserve the unity of the eu-27. i would like to thank the president of the commission, and also mr barnier, for the prudent negotiations. because we have succeeded - and we have always tried to support this - in maintaining the unity of the eu-27. the european union, it must also be said, has no complaints in these negotiations with the united kingdom. we have negotiated an excellent withdrawal agreement that is balanced and even secured a political declaration on the future relationship. even if the vote is negative this afternoon in the uk and the next weeks and months may prove difficult, i very much hope that we will continue to succeed in ensuring the cohesion of the eu27 and in bringing about a joint approach between the council, the commission and parliament. austria will certainly do everything in its power to support this line after the presidency. in addition to brexit, we have deliberately focused on three key issues under the motto 'a europe that protects'. the first is security and the fight against illegal immigration, the second is prosperity and competitiveness, and the third is neighbourhood. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union is not left behind. the first area, security and migration policy, is where we have succeeded in making progress in cooperation with third countries, despite the blockage in the question of distribution. with egypt in particular, but also with other countries, we have managed to ensure that rescue is no longer done by european ships only, because that is always linked to the ticket to europe, but that more and more rescue is also done by egyptians, by the libyan coast guard and others, and that people are transferred back to north africa after rescue. this means that in total, 95 per cent fewer people are arriving in europe today than in 2015. the most important thing is that not only the number of arrivals, but the deaths in the mediterranean have dropped massively. the situation today is that the central mediterranean route, the mediterranean route through italy, is de facto closed. we've had almost no new arrivals here in the last few weeks. the agreement reached by the home affairs ministers on strengthening the mandate of frontex was that frontex will be able to cooperate more closely with third countries in the future, but also play a more important role in transfers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and i would also like to invite you to speak to your government leaders, to speak to your governments, because there are some people who have yet to be convinced. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i should like to thank the commission very warmly for the positive comments it has made on our proposal. in the field of competitiveness and prosperity, in the field of sustainably safeguarding our prosperity and our environment, we have focused on the sustainable strengthening of the internal market. i am pleased that the majority of the open proposals in the area of the digital single market, such as those in the areas of cybersecurity or the broadcasting regulation, have been successfully concluded. we also looked at the fair taxation of internet giants. it has been possible to bring about a change of opinion in the council. the real decisionmaking is still lacking, and here again i would like to invite you to help us convince the states which are still somewhat sceptical. sustainability is a major concern for us in the republic of austria, and i am all the more pleased that it has been possible to ensure a ban on certain single-use plastics. but the reduction of co2 emissions from cars and heavy goods vehicles is also a great success of the council, the commission and parliament together, because there have been successful trilogue negotiations. the protection of the workplace against certain carcinogens and the agreement on the establishment of a european labour agency are further steps which i would like to mention here. a truly powerful europe, a competitive european union, naturally also needs a modern budget. i admit that as far as the mff negotiations are concerned, the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework of the european union, i was very, very sceptical at the beginning about whether it would be possible to achieve success here. i was then prompted by the president of the commission to get down to work here at full speed, and he was right: it has been possible to achieve much more success here than i had originally expected. we were able to hand over a full negotiating box at the end of our presidency in december. i hope that the mff negotiations can now be resumed swiftly. in the third area, which we have identified as a priority - neighbourhood policy - i am grateful as an austrian that the western balkans have now once again become a major focus of the european union. it is good to see positive developments in some of the western balkan countries, such as the resolution of the name dispute in macedonia, and the opening of two chapters with serbia and one with montenegro is a really important sign of the european perspective for this region. i very much hope that romania and the future council presidencies will continue to maintain the focus on the western balkans that bulgaria has initiated. i would like to thank president tajani in particular for his cooperation in the context of the africa forum. we have tried to put more emphasis on the economic development of africa at a forum held in vienna with the african union, in order to improve living conditions on the ground in a sustainable way and also to avoid leaving the continent to the chinese in terms of investment. we have received very positive feedback from the african governments that participated, and again, a big thank you to all of those who made this forum possible. finally, i would like to mention a subject which, in view of our history, is particularly important to us as the republic of austria: the fight against anti-semitism and anti-zionism. we held the first european conference on this subject in vienna in november with all the jewish communities in europe. council conclusions on this subject were adopted in december. i would like to thank all the heads of state or government in the european council for their support, because i believe it is important that when jews in some member states no longer feel safe, we as the european union not only take note of this but also resolutely fight against it. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank once again the commission - and in particular president juncker - the european parliament - and in particular president tajani - as well as all the other heads of state or government and all the member states for the good and constructive cooperation during our presidency of the council. we have always tried to contribute to strengthening the european union, to finding compromises and to achieving concrete results. i am glad that we have succeeded in so many areas, and i can promise you that we, as the republic of austria, will continue to play an active role in strengthening the european union. i know that there is already a bit of an election campaign in the air here, so i can wish all those who are running for the european parliament again in may all the best for the election campaign. i hope that during the election campaign there will be an intensive, objective debate on the future of the european union, because that is what we need. i also hope that this debate will always be conducted in a respectful manner, because that is in the interests of a united europe and, above all, of the citizens of the member states of the european union. i would like to thank you for your cooperation during these six months and wish you all the best from the european union.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. the commission is therefore proposing that the council of ministers should be consulted on the matter and that the council of ministers should be consulted on the matter. it makes little sense that i should have been able to get the chancellor to wear a hat. the balance sheet of the austrian presidencies is impressive, especially in terms of the number of agreements reached between the council, parliament and commission. 134 cases were successfully worked, worked out and negotiated, there were 73 political agreements with the parliament and 61 with the council. i have had a balancing experience, and i am allowed to say that what the austrian presidency has achieved, compared with what others have achieved, and i find the balance sheet of the austrian presidency in every respect impressive, with one important exception: i would have wished that the austrian federal government had overcome this weak autobiographical moment by giving its consent to the un migration pact. the chancellor knows, because i have talked to him about it several times, that it would have been desirable if the council had gone in the right direction, instead of sending out negative signals. (beifall) but the truth is that austria is not the only country that is opposed to this migration pact. i have not understood, i can not understand to this day, why this could happen. but with the exception of this, as i always say, autobiographically weak moment, i have as commission president no reason to oppose the austrian presidency, because i thought that it was the european cause that was at stake. insofern, from a european perspective, i would like to see more chairs, which would lead to more stringent, consequential, continuity, as in the case of the austrian chairs. i really enjoyed that we as the commission could rely on the readiness of our austrian friends to ensure the unity of the 27 when brexit comes. that's not a simple job. the debate, on the other hand, is not only taking place at the level of the european councils but also in the specialised councils, and austria has clearly shown its side and followed clear lines. the first is the recognition and praise of the work. i am very satisfied that the austrian presidency has agreed to the commission's proposal on the safeguarding of the external borders. i must confess that the commission has modelled, reviewed and updated its proposal for the securing of the external borders on the basis of the recommendations of the austrian federal chancellors. we had originally proposed that we would keep 10,000 men in readiness until the year 2000. the austrian federal chancellor considered that the request was not appropriate. but i now realize that the austrian chancellor and the president of the commission are the only ones who are not in favour of it. and the council of ministers of the austrian republic has tried to preserve this idea in the various councils. i would like you to know that i have the flu, insofar as this is good news for you, because i can no longer speak, as my vote keeps the double zoning of the brand-marked rates. all of us want to do more for the border guard. we are doing something, we are fighting together with the bundeskanzler something before, and now we are finding absetzbewegungen statt. i can only brandmark. either man holds himself an das, was man said and verlangt, und dann tut man das, or man shall keep his mouth shut, when it is an important question that is being asked. (beifall) i am grateful to the austrian chancellor and the federal government for their full support of the commission's proposals. i am also grateful that we have been able to continue our work in the field of employment. i can still very well remember, sebastian, that i had a sporting conversation with you in the bundeskanzleramt and kindly urged you to continue to raise this issue. the austrian presidency has done, and sometimes even has done, and i am grateful that we now have an employment agency, after we had a banking supervisory authority. if you think that europe, as i said earlier, is only waging a trade union war against the people who are working in the way of the leaden, you are fundamentally mistaken. the workers also have the right to protection. the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect the interests of the european union. the commission has also decided to initiate proceedings under article 93 (2) of the ec treaty in respect of the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women. despite initial reservations, the chancellor has pointed out that the austrian presidency has succeeded in achieving the financial perspectives needed to achieve progress, so that in october the final decision can be taken. insofar as i have only the words to say to the austrian presidency, i know how difficult this 'kistenkisterei' is. i ask myself in addition, how can i be sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on the matter? what i wanted to say is that the austrian presidency has brought together the parts which are needed in the overall context, so that we can have financial perspectives for further progress. i am grateful to the austrian council for its clear words in regard to anti-semitism. i never thought that it would happen to me in my lifetime, that jewish citizens would have to be afraid to confess their faith. austria had special reasons, in the matter of antisemitism, to speak clearly. i have been in vienna for months and have also visited the jewish community in vienna, which is a clear testimony that there is no place in europe for anti-semitism, racism and xenophobia. the austrian presidency has not only expressed these words, but has also proved that we are ready to fight back against these negative fundamental sentiments, for the continuation of which there is no need. i am also grateful for the african initiatives of the federal chancellors. we had in wien wie man in deutscher sprache sagt a high level group meeting between afrikanern and europäern. this was an important message to africa, because we must know that without a guarantee of african future-shaping there can be no european future-shaping. and this signal in direction of africa vom österreichischen ratsvorsitz kommend was already very important. also insgesamt mit ausnahme dessen, was ich habe gesagt war dies ein erfolgreicher ratsvorsitz, und ich habe mich beim bundeskanzler, bei der bundesregierung, beim botschafter zu bedanken für vieles, was in die wege geleitet wurde, und für erfolge, von denen ich zu anfang der ratsvorsitz nicht dachte, dass wir sie erreichen könnten. also insgesamt mit ausnahme dessen, was in die wege geleitet wurde, und für erfolge, von denen ich habe gesagt war dies ein erfolgreicher ratsvorsitz, und ich habe mich beim bundeskanzler, bei der bundesregierung, bei botschafter zu bedanken für vieles, was in die wege geleitet wurde, und für erfolge, von denen ich zu anfang der ratsvorsitz nicht dachte, dass wir sie erreichen könnten. also insgesamt mit ausnahme dessen, was in die wege geleitet wurde, und für erfolge, von denen ich habe gesagt war dies ein erfolgreicher ratsvorsitz, und ich habe mich beim bundeskanzler, bei der bundesregierung, bei botschafter zu bedanken für vieles, was in die wege geleitet wurde, und für erfolge, von denen ich zu anfang der ratsvorsitz nicht dachte, dass wir sie erreichen könnten. thank you very much. (beifall)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. president tajani, president juncker, chancellor, representatives of the federal government, ambassadors and other distinguished colleagues! i would like to welcome the chancellor to the presidency of the council. and we in the epp group would also like to say thank you, because the record is impressive, it is strong. the european council in strasbourg on 14 and 15 december last gave a clear signal to the european parliament that it was ready to take action in the field of the internal market. and, frankly, politically, it is sometimes a pity that we only ever lead the public debates about europe on the issues of crisis, always only on what people see as the problems on the continent, and we hardly manage to get the positive issues, the issues that we are concluding, that make europe stronger, noticed. it's a pity that it's like this. we politicians will have to live with that all the time. but this presidency of the council is a very impressive proof of that. the political balance in the content has been enumerated. i would like to emphasize once again the issue of security for the epp group. the defence fund offers a huge opportunity in the field of cyber and drone technology. we have strengthened interoperability, the exchange of data between security authorities, ecris being one of the themes. we have made progress in the area of prosperity, investment screening in europe is an important issue for us, the eu-japan agreement was concluded during your presidency, and we have achieved a lot in everyday roaming - including roaming for bank transfers - so that people can feel it in everyday life. and finally, we have made great strides in the environmental field with the ban on single-use plastics and the carbon footprint. this is significant. and if people were more aware of what is achieved in terms of content, then we could also communicate europe better. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. and we are concerned about issues such as the discussion on the protection of the external borders at the first informal council in salzburg. the priority given to the protection of external borders in the migration debate is central to us as epp; the precondition for any further debate on migration is that we know who is on european soil. the fairness debate with the digital tax and, mr chancellor, austria's progress now with a national digital tax to force the internet giants to a fair share for the national structures is considerable, is strong. so, congratulations on that. this shift of emphasis has done europe good. and the value debate jean-claude juncker has cut it: if we are in europe on a continent where we are seriously talking about violence against jews again, then it must be emphasized as a priority. i was able to attend the conference on anti-semitism in vienna myself, and what the jewish organizations told us there should shake us all up, should alert us all to the fact that we are concerned about this issue. the basic message behind it is: never again! a tremendous amount has been achieved. congratulations on that. in conclusion, i would like to say that austria has presented itself as a strong country with a strong government. the citizens have also been involved; as i have seen, they were proud to be at the forefront of europe during the six months, to be able to stand and to move europe forward. it was a good presidency. what remains is that constructive work, that leadership and that will to reach consensus will lead to a good europe. i would like to thank mr sebastian kurz and the austrian presidency. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i am sorry, mr kurz, that i cannot entirely agree with the praises of my predecessors, because i am beginning to wonder: what is left of the austrian presidency of the council? many legislative proposals have not been advanced, have been stuck in the council. but what's really going to stick with us and what's really going to stick with people out there from the last six months, is on the one hand the very blammable courtship of russian president putin with kneeling and all that. and on the other hand, it's the political antics that the austrian government has done around the un migration pact, and that's -- i have to say -- that's embarrassing. the austrian government has been negotiating this global pact for months with a lot of blood and sweat. finally, we have an effort from so many countries around the world to address this issue. the austrian government is doing a lot of work, and then after the work is done, they pretend that it is all the devil's work. instead of looking together for sensible solutions, you have polemized and polarized, and you have put yourself in the right-wing nationalist corner, just as trump and orbán have done. and, mr kurz, i would say that you have done us all a disservice, the whole of the european union. and not only that, but you have also shown us all that your government gives a shit about our common european legislation when it comes down to it. it is hardly possible to explain in any other way that you decide, in the middle of your presidency of the council, to discriminate against eu citizens in social policy and to actually reduce family allowances for them - knowing full well that you are breaking eu laws. other governments are at least waiting until their presidency of the council is over, you have done it right away. on the other hand, there is not much to report on the financial side of your presidency of the council in the last six months. you have not made any progress in the fight against tax evasion and tax dumping, and unfortunately you have also been a great help to the german car industry on the question of co2 caps for cars. unfortunately, nothing has happened with the common european asylum system and with frontex - even frontex, it must be said - the equipment has not advanced and has been put on the back burner, and these were the priorities of the austrian presidency of the council. i would like to say that we have made some progress in the fight against single-use plastic and i would also like to expressly commend the excellent work of your officials. overall, it seems to me that the greatest achievement of the presidency of the council was that you won the very first 'fossil of the day' award at the climate conference in katowice. i'm very happy for you. but i have much more hope when i look at austria itself, when i look at austrian civil society. many people are getting involved, are interested in politics, are taking to the streets against the right-wing movement, against racism and against social cuts. i hope very much that these people in austria will be able to make a mark in the european elections, because europe needs an open and constructive austria, and all of europe needs a civil society like yours: a strong voice for social cohesion and against division.
on behalf of the group of the european democratic alliance mr president, mr president of the commission, mr juncker, and mr chancellor kurz! first of all , we should note three things positive for the record: firstly, the earth continues to rotate; secondly, wars have ceased; and thirdly, the eu is bureaucratizing as usual and unchanged. and all this despite a first: the so-called right-wing populists were involved in a government for the first time when it held the presidency of the council of the european union. this shows that the european union is undergoing such a change, and quite drastically. the eu is different today from what it was before the austrian presidency of the council, because there is another novelty: for the first time a council presidency has not felt obliged to take the lead in europe's centralisation. it has worked pragmatically and correctly and cooperatively, but it has not advanced centralisation. no example illustrates this better than the treatment of the un migration pact. we in the afd put this issue on the agenda early on. but i dare say that it could never have dominated the debate in europe for months if austria, under its turquoise-blue government, had not spoken out so strongly against the migration pact. austria has courageously broken away from the herd of uncritical haters and thereby made public debate on the disastrous migration pact possible in the first place. i thank you very much for this, mr kurz. and that is why i believe that the austrian presidency of the council could one day be seen as a turning point in the history of the eu. i am not the only one who has been struck by the formative force of a council presidency on the european debate. a little bit of bickering like that gives the council presidency a profile. i 'm sure of it . the austrian example will therefore be followed by other council presidencies, which will set their own accents. ladies and gentlemen, a little resistance to the still predominant direction of the eu does not make this government anti-european. on the contrary, it is not only the right but also the duty of the member states to say 'yes' and 'amen' to everything. we must strengthen the intergovernmental component of the eu's institutional framework. we need checks and balances that work again, a no again to an eu that, under the leadership of this commission and this european parliament, is acting like a superstate. i am sure we will hear this more often in the future, and i predict that it will be good for europe. thank you for your attention.
deputising for the rapporteur. – mr president, mr pospíšil can’t be here today, but he’s asking for referral back to committee.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to welcome viorica to the european parliament. congratulations on the start of this first romanian presidency. we honour a lot your personal commitment to the european union. as a former colleague, we experienced you as a very committed european and we see a basis for a very, very good collaboration with this presidency, given the tasks you mentioned ahead of us and given the serious situation in many, many policy areas. i listened to your speech with interest and yes, you are right, social cohesion, regional cohesion, is a decisive, crosscutting issue, and your idea of organising a new mode of european convergence is very much at the core of what we have to talk about. the last hours of this day demonstrate how serious the situation is in london and how much work has to be done, whatever the decision is going to be tonight. the international financial markets, the tax questions – all of that we have to tackle, we have to re-fix, and the migration question is one of the most important ones. here, let me praise you, let me honour you, because you decided in the christmas period to join the camp of those who would like to help in the mediterranean, to help to save lives and not to turn a blind eye on what is going to happen or join the club of those who only celebrate their ignorance. lassen sie mich aber auch darauf hinweisen, dass wir probleme haben, über die wir sprechen müssen. ja, es gibt dinge, die uns sorgen machen. vieles im justizsystem in rumänien muss reformiert werden, die korruption muss entschieden bekämpft werden. wenn es im modernen europa eine situation gibt, dass in einem land die geheimdienste auf die gerichtsbarkeit und die staatsanwaltschaft einfluss haben, können wir das nicht akzeptieren. ich spreche das hier an, ich müsste es aber auch sehr viel mehr bei ihrem präsidenten ansprechen, unter dessen verantwortungsbereich die geheimdienste hier in dieser frage stehen. insofern kann ich der kommission beipflichten und kann sagen: einigkeit ist schön, aber dann lasst uns auch die dinge beim namen nennen und sie klar dort verorten, wo sie verortet werden müssen. wenn es in ihrem land – ich rede über die dinge, wie sie hinter dem rücken kolportiert werden, und sie hier nicht auszusprechen, das ist nicht meine art – ungerechtigkeiten gab gegenüber menschen, die unter dem justizsystem unschuldig gelitten haben, muss das geklärt werden. aber die antwort darauf kann keine generelle amnestie sein, weil die nämlich recht und unrecht in einen topf wirft. davon raten wir ihnen heftig ab, das ist keine grundlage. aber schaffen sie rechtsstaatlichkeit dort, wo sie es für nötig halten. ich weiß, dass sie das wollen, und ich will ihnen mut zusprechen: machen sie das, denn sie werden ehre einlegen für ihre präsidentschaft, für sie als person und für ihr land! und europa wird mit ihnen sein, wenn sie das tun. der rechtsstaat ist eine errungenschaft der europäischen gesellschaften, die die menschen schützt, freiheiten gegenüber dem staat garantiert und willkürherrschaft beendet. das gilt gegenüber jedermann. wir sozialdemokraten wissen das, weil wir uns vor über 150 jahren dafür gegründet haben, und wir verteidigen das gegen jeden und überall, wo immer das in gefahr ist. aber der rechtsstaat ist keine keule für politische wettbewerber, um sich wechselseitig um die chancen der politischen willensbildung zu bringen. das müssen wir überall respektieren und auf allen politischen seiten. frau premierministerin, sie sind eine mutige frau – das weiß ich –, und ihr reformwille kann eine exzellente voraussetzung sein für die nächsten sechs monate, für eine gedeihliche zusammenarbeit. ich will ihnen mal was sagen – denjenigen, die immer alles genau wissen, insbesondere den wettbewerbern aus der europäischen volkspartei: wenn es dieser tage ein land gibt, in dem wieder universitäten geschlossen werden – zum ersten mal seit dem faschismus –, wenn es ein land gibt, in dem journalistenrechte untergraben werden und keine freie meinungsäußerung mehr möglich ist, dann kehren sie einmal vor dieser tür. und nur weil sie nicht die traute haben, herrn orbán das ins gesicht zu sagen, was sie ihm sagen sollten: putzen sie nicht ihre schuhe an der beginnenden präsidentschaft ab! das ist der falsche umgang mit der politischen diskussion in europa. ich habe das auch herrn juncker gesagt, er weiß es von mir persönlich. er hat sich schon besser in szene gesetzt, nur der lauterkeit halber hier auch erwähnt.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, welcome to the prime minister and the whole presidency. a presidency is always a time for a country to shine, to show off its skills in diplomacy, its skill in finding compromises, achieving progress, impressing everyone with the opportunities and skills that you have as a government and as a country. the presidency is a vital job in our institutional relations and for moving europe forward. however, a presidency is also always a time when a country is put into the limelight, and what we discover there when looking at the romanian government gives us reasons for concern. romania has a long tradition of fighting for freedom and for civil liberties, and the people of romania overthrew a dictatorship after enduring it for 42 years. romania has joined the european union and has made important progress, especially against the evil of corruption. those are achievements that the people of romania can be proud of; we all should be very proud of those achievements. these days, thousands of people in romania are out in the streets, asking for civil liberties and good governance, but the problem is that they’re not being heard because instead the government has been organising a backlash against those civil liberties and against good governance, and the proposed law changes will result in legalising corruption de facto. the government is even planning to reduce the rights to protest against that law change or others. a presidency must lead by good example and with credibility. you still have time to become that good example that we need in europe, but the clock is certainly ticking. the half year of your presidency will be quite eventful. we have brexit coming up – or not – and the eu elections, of course. at the same time, the european union also needs a long—term vision, so it’s very good that you have planned the summit in may. however, for the summit to be really helpful, it also needs to include some of the most burning issues that we have in europe, that we need to solve. for example, how are we going to stop climate change? how are we going to manage the transition to a carbon—free economy? how do we make social rights for people a reality rather than just nice words? how will the eu respond to the backlash against the rule of law in several member states? we wish you a lot of success with all those things on your plate and we hope to be positively surprised.
on behalf of the group of the european democratic alliance mr president, mr president of the ecb! her record is not good. you were considered a hawk when you launched in 2011. it was wrong even then. interest rates are as low as ever. you haven't raised it once in your seven years in office. germany, the main engine of the euro area, is facing a recession. this will sweep the euro area. they no longer have the option of responding with a rate cut. they bought billions of dollars in bonds and dramatically expanded the ecb's balance sheet. they have made the poor poorer and the rich richer. they've had the most expansionary monetary policy ever. the target balances are completely out of control. germany has claims of almost a trillion euros, which are likely to be worthless. your final move is to play for time for the rest of your term, leaving this pile of debris to your successor. my hope is that historians will realize that it is you who are really responsible for the economic disaster in the euro area. this disaster will be exposed in no time, and you will be retired.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. parliament is celebrating 20 years of the euro today. but what are we celebrating? if we are honest, we must say that the euro has brought us one difficulty after another. let us look at the sovereign debt crisis, for example: we would never have had a sovereign debt crisis if we had not had the euro. because as long as states have their national currency, they can always service their national debt by printing their own money. we would never have had a banking crisis of this magnitude if we hadn't had the euro, because the banking crisis only came about because the states were sitting on huge stocks of government bonds, and those government bonds were at risk because the states could no longer print their own money. we would not have had a banking crisis, we would not have had a sovereign debt crisis, and we would not have had mass unemployment - massive youth unemployment almost everywhere in southern europe. the euro has brought us all these difficulties. we have nothing to celebrate about the euro. we must work hard to get a handle on all these problems that the euro has created. the euro has not met expectations at all, the euro is actually a completely failed experiment.
mr president, mr draghi, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. you're celebrating 20 years of euro right now. the fact is that the imbalances within the euro area are still huge. this is reflected in target balances, which are still at record levels. this is reflected in the differences in economic development, especially industrial development in france and italy, for example. this is also reflected in the fact that germany, for example, is still lagging behind in wage developments. the euro area has been one of the regions with the lowest economic growth in recent years. we have even in africa large parts which have developed better in recent years than the euro area has. venezuela is perhaps another example that has gone even worse. this is true of all systems governed by socialist-planned economy. the fact is that we have continued to accumulate public debt and that you, mr draghi, are largely responsible for this.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 16 january 2019.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr nils torvalds, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the banking union annual report 2018 (2018/2100(ini)) (a80419/2018).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you to the rapporteur! he has largely adopted the epp's positions. i would like to thank you very much for a good report. we have just heard the last two speakers, the representative of the gue and the representative of the efdd. both have tabled amendments. the gue wants to dissolve the banking union and the efdd wants exceptions for italy. if we get this far, if we see this as a solution, then we can pack up right here. i would like to thank the rapporteur and also to say what our priorities were. anyone who has looked at the banking crisis knows that it was greed and lack of regulation that led to this huge banking crisis, and nothing else. the greed of the industry! we have adopted over 30 legislative proposals, and i would like to thank the commission for proposing them, even though it took a long time to implement them in the council. the first is the proportionality between small and large banks. in america, there's regulation for wall street -- the big ones -- and for main street -- the small ones. we have not yet achieved this in europe. secondly, the fight against money laundering will only be successful if it is implemented by the member states. thirdly, we must continue to reduce the problem of credit. we're in agreement on that. fourthly, the diversity of eu banking models must not be called into question. i have the impression that this is being tried again and again, particularly in germany. the last point is the deposit guarantee system. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mario draghi said in this house a year ago that edis, the common deposit guarantee scheme, would be an indispensable pillar of monetary union. mr fernández has stressed this, mr langen has pointed out the risks. i say that the common deposit guarantee does not make the banking union safer, but less so. firstly, we have the risks in the banks, which are already there, which can also be retouched by means of bank balance sheet tricks, we all know that. secondly, mr draghi is producing bad loans again by forcing banks to take risks they would not normally take. and thirdly, we have the moral hazard problem. as aristotle said, if everyone is responsible, then nobody is really responsible. or as the saying goes, "if others pay the price, you're happy to drink your fill". that means that we will not make the banking union safer, but we will introduce contagion into the banking union.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you once again, and thank you, mr torvalds, for your excellent report. i listened attentively to the members’ interventions. the debate shows that we continue to agree on the importance of the banking union and the regulatory and supervisory frameworks which allow banks to contribute to economic growth, while ensuring the financial system is sound and stable. from the commission side, we believe it crucial to keep making progress on the files on the table in the area of financial services – including in the last term before the elections. we also count on you to help secure tangible progress to complete the banking union, the capital markets union and, ultimately, a strong economic and monetary union – resilient and strong enough to withstand any future crisis.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 16 january 2019.
the next item is the debate on the report by josé manuel fernandes and roberto gualtieri, on behalf of the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the 'investeu' programme (com ((2018) 0439 c8-0257/2018 2018/0229 cod)) (a8-0482/2018).
thank you very much, mr kelly. unfortunately, you only had a minute. i know you're usually very accurate, but that's all you had this time. that's why i don't allow a "blue card".
draft opinion of the consultative committee on regional development. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the investeu programme is a good programme and i believe that the report by my colleagues is indeed an improvement on it. however, as a regional politician, i would like to add a little water to the wine, because i do have some reservations. in my view, the structural funds, with their decentralised approach, with their shared management, are something completely different from investeu. the structural funds are designed to improve the lives of all people in europe. they bring jobs to the regions, improve infrastructure, fight climate change, support businesses and universities. this support must continue, even if the budget is reduced. that is why i reject the idea that the structural funds should contribute to the financing of investeu. i am in favour of the idea of creating synergies, but against the plans to combine the two instruments financially.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. with investeu, the eu is once again trying to address structural shortcomings through spending. it's not gonna work. it hasn't worked before, it won't work in the future. structural defects must be eliminated by first analyzing them and drawing the right conclusions from them. but if we just go in and say, "we want more investment", then we pretend that every investment is good. but that's not the case. investments are only good if they are sustainable. above all, we must ensure that the eu does not take itself over the private sector. we need private investment. but if we see that we have a zero interest policy, we have a money flood, there is enough money there, why is it not invested? that means that we have a very different problem here than providing the private sector with money. what we are going to achieve with investeu is the same as with the efsi, with the juncker plan. we will fund projects without knowing what will come out of them, without measurable results. that means that we will have bad investments, we will have bad allocations, and we will end up doing nothing for the citizens, but these are ultimately carry-overs. what we really need to increase competitiveness is a reform of the euro. because this one is completely out of place, it makes things equal that you can't make equal. we'll have to start there. that would be a considerable improvement in our economic importance.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, first of all i would like to stress that it was urgent that the union took stronger action to increase investment, so therefore we welcome the original plan. we saw the deficiencies and we learned lessons from that and now have a new proposal. the union has to be bolder, to increase investment, and this is also what the new investeu programme will deliver. but at the same time, i would like to stress that good investment is only sustainable investment. only investment which learns the lessons of the climate crisis is good investment and therefore it was positive that the compromise coming out of the leading committee foresaw an increase in the share of sustainable investment in the infrastructure window to 65%, and it is important for our group that this house sticks to this proposal. second, we believe strongly that military and civil objectives in budgets should be well separated, and this principle should also be respected in the plenary vote. i count on the co-rapporteurs to follow the original compromise rather than changing that here in the plenary and making it more difficult to achieve a broad pro-european majority which this programme deserves.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this report on the implementation of the trade part of the association agreement with central america was adopted by a large majority in the committee on international trade. in a globalised world, rules-based trade agreements are not only an important instrument of trade relations, but in general an element that can help bring stability to this rapidly changing world. there are positive aspects to this report, but also some worthy of reflection and criticism. i would like to say at the outset that this association agreement is in fact based on three pillars, and unfortunately, to date, although all the countries concerned in central america have agreed to the agreement in 2013, three member states have not yet ratified the two pillars outside trade. we see this time and again, and it undermines, it undermines the credibility of the european union when it tries to launch trade agreements and association agreements with partners from other continents. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to make it clear again that this agreement is the first region-to-region agreement, so to speak. we are dealing, of course, with countries in central america, all of which have their own specific challenges. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there are countries where the volume of trade has increased considerably in recent years, and there are countries where it is progressing a little more slowly. at the same time, we see that there is also a certain vulnerability to change, if i take one of the countries where the trade volume has increased most, namely costa rica, followed by panama and guatemala, where on the other hand, due to changes in the southeast asian region, trade relations between that region and costa rica have decreased dramatically. we must also look at these things more closely. we also find - and this is also the case with other trade agreements - that both the partners and the european union still have room to increase their use of the agreed tariffs and figures for trade exchanges. certainly the questions are: 'are these trade relations still relatively one-sided in terms of focusing on certain primary products?' from the central american perspective and 'what is the european union exporting to central america? important points to consider. it is also worth recalling that certain areas, such as services, need to be discussed more intensively. i believe, madam commissioner, that there is a need for action in this respect. and of course the call to the european union and all the central american states to take account of the full implementation and ratification of environmental agreements at international level, including the paris agreement. there is still a need to catch up on the ilo agreements. there are still some challenges to be tackled and we must not let up on them. the european union is not a party to the association agreement, but it is a party to the association agreement.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the promotion of a values and rules-based free trade policy is without doubt one of the european union's greatest success stories. it is becoming more and more a core competence of the union with a liberal handwriting. we have recently concluded with japan what is probably the most modern trade agreement in the world. smes are supported, digitalisation is supported, with strong chapters on public procurement and sustainability. this is how we imagine a modern trade policy. more than five years after its conclusion, the trade agreement with colombia and peru is now in an important phase of implementation. it sets common values and international standards for human and workers' rights and sustainable development, which offers immense future opportunities, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises in the partner countries. the strategic value of the agreement is high for europe, because in latin america too china is aggressively entering the markets and thus binding sales and partner markets to itself in the long term, only the chinese do not rely on a trade policy based on values and rules. it is in colombia in particular that the agreement with the peace process, which has unfortunately recently come to a standstill, must be actively supported again. a stable colombia is the economic anchor of this region. but the much smaller central american market must not be ignored from the eu's point of view. the association agreement does not always work well in terms of trade relations. the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide the community with a financial contribution to the financing of the projects. we are looking forward to constructive cooperation and to further improvements in the future. europe must become a continent of opportunity again, for strong global trade links are an important building block.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. 2019 is only two weeks old, and six human rights activists have already been murdered in colombia. the terrible record of political murders in 2018 continues. why does the commission not mention these facts in its balance sheet of our trade relations with colombia and peru? the climate of violence, repression and murder is not a minor issue. our values-based and rules-based trade policy requires clear statements: the agreement should be suspended until the human rights situation has improved significantly. the fact remains that the agreement has so far brought little economic benefit to the majority of the colombian population and that more space should be given to the domestic advisory groups. if we as the eu do not act, there is a risk of more violence, more human rights being eroded and more environmental destruction, not only in colombia, the andean region or central america. i 'll make it clear: the election of mr bolsonaro as president of brazil and the measures he has announced threaten to clash with the interests of indigenous peoples and climate protection - not only in the region, but globally. we cannot negotiate a trade agreement with mercosur as the european union with a man who speaks with contempt about human rights and environmental protection. now, i mean, both there and here, is the moment for a signal from europe.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i would like to say at the outset, in the face of the multiplicity of legitimate criticisms and comments, that we have many construction sites in relation to what we have negotiated with our partner countries. yes, we must be firm, but we must also be cautious. and i want to say specifically, commissioner, that in my view you and your team have done a really good job in the field of trade policy in recent years. i would like to expressly agree with my colleague who said: yes, we must also look at where our partners are coming from, and not only demand the absolute of 100% implementation, but also see how we are developing, what progress is being made, this too must be taken into account. that brings me to another point. if i look at the countries we've been talking about, peru and colombia, which have taken in 500,000 venezuelan refugees, and colombia has taken in over a million venezuelan refugees, these countries are in a fragile situation, and they're on the verge of collapse. are we doing enough with unhcr, or are we still doing too little? we have a damned duty and a duty as the european union to take care of this situation and to ensure that the rise of dictatorial regimes does not poison and destroy the whole of the neighbourhood of latin and south america. then all our efforts will be over in a day. and here, i think, we have another area of responsibility in the commission - not just in trade policy - to insist very strongly that what we are demanding is actually implemented everywhere, and not to pretend, in view of the arrogance of the united states, in view of the withdrawal from the trans-pacific trade agreement, that we are simply leaving this continent to the arrogance of our big neighbours or to the pressure of other important partners such as china. our partners expect something very different from us, and we should think about that.
in writing. – in november 2018 i chaired a delegation of the afet and inta committees to buenos aires to participate in the first ever ‘parliamentary forum in the context of the g-20 leaders’ summit’. the additional discussions with argentine interlocutors were mainly dominated by the eu-mercosur association agreement. its relevance has been clearly demonstrated to me. however, the european union must not only remain committed to a promising and speedy conclusion of new ambitious and comprehensive agreements. the successful implementation of already existing settlements is equally important. among other things, our focus should lie on the agreements between the eu and colombia and peru and on the eu-central america association agreement, all signed in 2012. in this context, regarding the latest implementation reports, regional cooperation as well as bilateral cooperation is progressing, bringing benefits to both sides. however, further progress is needed, especially in terms of money laundering and tax evasion. in addition, neither latin america nor the eu make full use of their granted tariff rate quotas. therefore, potential sectors should be identified to excite further exchanges. latin america is a key partner for our european union and, at present, the eu has enormous opportunities to strengthen its close cooperation with the region.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. nothing is as permanent as change. in a globalized economy, companies are constantly shifting jobs across the globe. there are winners and losers. for the jobless in europe, we want to ensure that in the event of mass redundancies and restructuring, people, businesses, industries and regions are supported in their efforts to put people back to work. the globalisation adjustment fund will make a significant contribution to this by providing funding to companies, sectors and regions in the event of mass redundancies of more than 200 people. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of the internet in the european union. the issues of environmental requirements, ecology, economization and digitization can lose their grip with some of these funds. the globalisation adjustment fund must support a sustainable economy in a triad of economic, ecological and social interests of the people.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. the commission is not education is the key to social participation. but we still have a fairness problem in this area in the european union, because education is still too dependent on the level of education, and above all on the parents' pockets. this problem does not stop the erasmus programme, which we love so much and which we want to develop considerably for that very reason. i am therefore very pleased that we have been able to agree here in parliament to accompany the desired expansion of erasmus in the future with better opportunities for the use of the esf+ in the field of education by creating synergies between the european social fund and the erasmus programme. the aim of the project is to develop a european network of trainers and trainers in the field of education and training, with a view to promoting the exchange of knowledge and experience between trainers and trainers, and to support the development of a european network of trainers and trainers. this is an important innovation, because education is one of the key building blocks for breaking the eternal cycle of poverty. only those who have the necessary tools can succeed personally, socially and professionally in our society, and experiences abroad are now simply part of that. i can only hope that the member states will now make use of these opportunities and put the urgent question of education at the top of the agenda.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, a growing social divide is one of the biggest threats that the european union is facing right now, and the brexit referendum especially has shown that there is a group of people in the european union – not only in the uk but also in other member states – who fear their social problems are not being addressed. we have to address their social problems: not by leaving a community of solidarity, not by leaving the european union, but by making the european union more socially just and addressing problems of social inequality. the european social fund is one of the puzzle pieces needed in order to make that happen: to strengthen the fight against energy and housing poverty, to tackle a just transition and to fight against social exclusion. the european parliament, with this proposal, has proved that it is ready to pick this fight and to tackle inequality, and now we need to see the council and the member states, too, showing their readiness to do that. if they don’t, they will be endangering the future of the european union as a whole.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner. the fact is that only what you can experience, what you can understand, you find good in the long run and support it. the esf+ funds projects across europe that bring europe to life for thousands of people. the question is being asked more and more frequently, particularly in regions whose economies are not as strongly developed: what have we got from europe? the social fund gives the right and decisive answer: europe invests in people. support is given for continuing training, social protection or reintegration into the labour market and society. all this is financed by the european social fund. europe does not leave people alone in their structural change. today, poverty is still hereditary. we can now interrupt that by giving children social rights. we therefore call for europe to provide the basic and essential things for children who are affected by poverty: free schooling, free school books, and if parents cannot afford the school trip, schools must be able to raise money.
the committee on budgetary control, which is consultative, has adopted an opinion. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am a child of the euregio meuse-rhine. the region is home to some four million people - belgians, dutch and germans. why is it so important that we have interreg in these regions? because interreg is crossing borders. collaboration between universities, cross-border labour market, many programmes here bring people together and make fun of these people. and that is precisely what we expect from europe: that europe is fun. i want to stress that it is important that we as parliament have called for more money for these programmes, because we not only want the good programmes to continue, but we also need to develop this tool so that europe can continue to grow together. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, i would also like to stress the importance of reducing administrative burdens. if management takes up more time than the project itself, people don't enjoy it as much. we want to inspire people to love europe, and europe must be fun. that's why it's important that we develop these programs further.
the commission has already done so. it is good that we are accompanying the report with a debate, because it deserves to be debated, even though it is now getting close to midnight. the original intention was to present the report briefly in the plenary. there is hardly a european policy area more committed to the european idea of cooperation across borders and cohesion - the internal cohesion of the european union - than the objective of european territorial cooperation. although national borders have become largely permeable, there are still differences in legal systems and administrative structures between the member states of the european union, which make it difficult for citizens in border regions to cooperate across borders. this is where interreg programmes can help, and they have helped to enable citizens to work together across national borders to solve problems and implement projects in often structurally weak border areas. this regulation should provide the basis for the further support for cross-border cooperation for the next funding period. we must ensure that the opportunities for cooperation are not reduced but increased, that the financial resources available are not reduced but at least maintained. the bureaucracy that has been built up over the last few years must be dismantled. and a major advance of the new regulation is that territorial cooperation is no longer limited to the member states of the european union, but can be linked to the instruments of neighbourhood policy and development cooperation. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is a fundamental principle of the treaty. we should give him a large majority. it is a very important regulation and that is why it should take us some time.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, last november, the european council endorsed the agreement on the withdrawal of the uk from the eu and euratom. the european council also approved the political declaration setting out the framework for the future relationship between the eu and the uk and restated the union’s determination to have the closest possible partnership with the uk in the future. this outcome would not have been possible without the sense of unity, shared purpose and responsibility among the eu’s 27 member states, as well as among the eu institutions. today, having just learned the outcome of the meaningful vote in westminster, we cannot but regret this outcome. this makes a disorderly exit by the uk more likely. such a scenario will have serious consequences for all of us, but in particular for the uk. addressing those consequences will no doubt call for the same unity, shared purpose and responsibility among member states and the eu institutions. given the many conflicting messages that have been conveyed in the uk before and during the debates leading to the vote, on all sides of the political spectrum, it is hard to single out one particular explanation of this outcome. this outcome is, of course, not the end of the game. while having been clear that renegotiation of the agreement is not on the cards, we should stand ready to act once the uk government has clarified what this result means for the uk ratification process and what the next steps should be. in the meantime, as repeatedly called for by the european council in its invitation to the commission, the european parliament and the council to take the necessary steps, we are continuing the ratification process in the eu. in this respect, i am pleased to mention that, last week, the council adopted its decision on the signing of the agreement and approved its decision on its conclusion, as well as the request for the consent of parliament. responsibility for ensuring uk ratification of the deal remains with the uk government. our determination to proceed should, however, be of comfort the uk government in its effort to complete its part of the ratification process. however, the final result, in terms of both timing and content, is far from certain. we therefore have to continue our preparation for all outcomes, including a no—deal scenario. we do not want such a situation, but we will be properly prepared for it if it happens. the preparedness and contingency dimension of brexit should therefore assume greater importance at eu and national level, building on the solid work already under way. this, of course, means extra legislative work at this late stage of the parliamentary term but we are confident that the european parliament will rise to the challenge in the interest of all the stakeholders. the presidency, in any event, is determined, with your cooperation, to facilitate the adoption of the necessary contingency measures in good time. (applause)
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, the vote last night in the house of commons was crystal clear: the withdrawal agreement has been rejected and now we will have to look for a way forward. the commission regrets the rejection of the withdrawal agreement, as the representative of the council has said, because we do believe this was the best possible outcome in a situation where two parties were negotiating, each looking after its own interest. the commission negotiator, michel barnier, did a remarkable job negotiating on behalf of the 27, the british government negotiated on behalf of the united kingdom, and we do believe the outcome of that negotiation led to a withdrawal agreement which did as little harm as possible. nobody should be under any illusion: brexit does harm. it does harm to the united kingdom, it does harm to the european union, and we are under an obligation as politicians to limit the harm to the absolute minimum possible, and we do believe the withdrawal agreement delivered on that obligation. i think it’s not for us to speculate on what sort of brexit we will have. we will now have to wait for what’s going to happen in the house of commons in the united kingdom, for the position of the british government and the british parliament, and we will have to take it from there, but, we’re also under an obligation to make sure that we are prepared for any possible outcome, including a disorganised no-deal brexit, which would have far-reaching consequences both for the united kingdom and for the european union, but the commission will be well prepared to make sure that we react to any possible outcome. as the representative of the council said, we will continue our process of ratification of the withdrawal agreement, since it was agreed with the united kingdom government. it is, and remains, in our view, the best possible outcome to ensure an orderly withdrawal. let me end with a quote by c. s. lewis. we ‘can’t go back and change the beginning, but [we] can start where [we] are and change the ending’.
chief brexit negotiator. – mr president, honourable members, secretary of state, the commission takes note of the vote in the house of commons last night. as said by our commission first vice—president, frans timmermans, the house of commons voted yesterday with a crystal-clear majority against the withdrawal agreement which the european council agreed with the british government in november, and which the european parliament welcomed. right now, it’s too early to assess all the consequences of this vote. we have always respected, and we continue to respect, the democratic parliamentary debate in the uk, and i will not speculate on the various scenarios. what yesterday’s vote showed is that the political conditions for the ratification of the withdrawal agreement are not yet there in london. we profoundly regret this vote, as president juncker has said, and that regret is obviously also linked to the intense work we have done, not only together with you, honourable members, with your brexit steering group, for two years, but also with the british government, on the basis of its ‘red lines’ and on the realities of leaving the eu. nous regrettons profondément ce vote, parce que nous avons construit cet accord de retrait ensemble, avec le gouvernement britannique, sur une base objective, en tenant compte des exigences partagées pour qu’il n’y ait pas de frontière en irlande, en respectant le souhait britannique de préserver l’intégrité de son territoire douanier. et nous avons développé ensemble, avec le gouvernement britannique, le cadre d’une future relation que l’union européenne souhaite aussi proche et aussi ambitieuse que possible – et aussi proche et aussi ambitieuse que les lignes rouges britanniques le permettront. mesdames et messieurs les députés, en écoutant les déclarations publiques, nous constatons que les députés de la chambre des communes qui ont voté contre l’accord négocié avec nous l’ont fait, comme l’a rappelé votre président, pour des motivations très différentes, très diverses, parfois opposées ou même contradictoires. ce vote, objectivement, n’est donc pas la manifestation claire d’une majorité positive qui définirait un projet alternatif à l’accord qui est aujourd’hui sur la table. dans ce contexte, il revient bien, comme l’a dit frans timmermans, aux autorités britanniques d’apporter aujourd’hui ou demain l’évaluation de ce vote et au gouvernement britannique d’indiquer comment il veut procéder en vue d’un retrait ordonné le 29 mars, ainsi que l’a rappelé hier soir le président du conseil européen, donald tusk. monsieur le président, mesdames et messieurs les députés, contrairement à ce qui a été dit parfois ces dernières semaines ou ces derniers jours, l’accord que nous avons trouvé avec le gouvernement britannique – cet accord de près de 600 pages – est un bon accord. il est évidemment le résultat d’un compromis, mais c’est le meilleur compromis possible et nous y avons travaillé, encore une fois, avec objectivité. ce compromis apporte de la sécurité juridique partout où le brexit a créé de l’incertitude, comme toute séparation. sécurité pour les citoyens, les citoyens britanniques, les citoyens européens des vingt-sept autres états membres, dont les droits se trouveraient garantis durablement. ces droits ont toujours été notre priorité, ont toujours été votre priorité ici au parlement, et la protection de ces droits restera notre priorité en toute hypothèse. sécurité pour les porteurs de projets publics ou privés, tous les bénéficiaires du budget européen, qu’ils soient britanniques – ils sont nombreux – ou de chacun de nos vingt-sept autres états membres. ces projets se trouveraient préservés grâce à l’accord qui est ici. sécurité et stabilité pour l’irlande et l’irlande du nord, où le retour d’une frontière dure serait évitée grâce à une solution qui préserverait l’intégrité, d’un côté, du royaume-uni et, de l’autre, du marché unique, dans le respect, auquel nous avons souscrit, auquel nous nous sommes engagés, de l’accord du vendredi saint ou accord de belfast. c’est aussi pourquoi, mesdames et messieurs, le backstop que nous avons convenu avec le royaume-uni doit rester un backstop crédible. the backstop must be a backstop. it must be credible. sécurité pour les entreprises et pour les administrations qui disposeraient d’une période de transition – dont je rappelle que la seule base juridique est bien l’accord de retrait –, transition durant laquelle elles auraient le temps nécessaire pour se préparer et pour s’adapter. ce compromis nous donne aussi, évidemment, avec cette transition, le temps nécessaire pour négocier notre future relation sur la base d’une déclaration politique que nous avons également convenue, du côté de l’union, avec le gouvernement britannique. cette déclaration politique, je le rappelle, laisse ouverte la voie à différentes options, tout en respectant nos principes fondamentaux. bien sûr, en toute hypothèse, je le rappelle, la ratification de cet accord de retrait est nécessaire. c’est un préalable pour créer la confiance mutuelle entre nous, dans la perspective de la deuxième négociation, qui doit s’ouvrir le plus tôt possible, sur notre relation future. s’agissant de cette relation future, qui est évidemment le plus important pour l’avenir, et pour l’avenir de notre continent, je veux rappeler que votre parlement et le conseil européen, unanimes, ont toujours dit que si le royaume-uni choisit de faire évoluer ses propres lignes rouges à l’avenir et qu’il fait le choix de plus d’ambition pour aller au-delà d’un simple – ce qui n’est pas négligeable – accord de libre-échange, alors l’union européenne sera toujours immédiatement prête à accompagner cette évolution et à y répondre favorablement. en évoquant cette relation future, monsieur le président, mesdames et messieurs, je ne parle pas seulement de la relation économique, du commerce, des échanges, qui sont tellement importants pour la croissance et pour l’emploi, je parle aussi de toutes les coopérations sectorielles auxquelles vos commissions sont évidemment attachées: la coopération universitaire et dans la recherche, dans la pêche, secteur très important, dans l’aviation, dans les transports, et bien d’autres choses encore. je parle de la coopération policière et judiciaire, dont nous avons besoin après le brexit. je pense aussi, évidemment, à la stabilité de notre continent, à la sécurité: le royaume-uni, grand pays membre du conseil de sécurité des nations unies, pays ami et allié, restera durablement notre partenaire pour tout ce qui touche à la politique étrangère, au développement, à la coopération et à la coopération en matière de défense. mesdames et messieurs, nous avons mené un travail collectif pendant 18 mois. ce travail collectif a été validé à chaque moment clé par le gouvernement britannique, par le conseil européen, par vous-mêmes dans ce parlement européen. aussi longtemps qu’une issue ne sera pas trouvée à l’impasse britannique actuelle, politique, aussi longtemps qu’une issue ne sera pas identifiée clairement et appuyée par une majorité parlementaire, nous ne serons pas en mesure d’avancer. voilà pourquoi les prochaines étapes doivent à présent être, vous l’avez dit, indiquées clairement par le gouvernement britannique. monsieur le président, mesdames et messieurs, un brexit ordonné restera notre priorité absolue dans les semaines qui viennent. pour autant, au moment où je vous parle, aucun scénario ne peut être exclu. c’est particulièrement vrai du scénario que nous avons toujours voulu éviter, celui d’un no deal: nous sommes le 16 janvier, à dix semaines seulement de la fin du mois de mars, c’est-à-dire du moment choisi par le gouvernement britannique pour que le royaume-uni devienne un pays tiers. aujourd’hui, à dix semaines de ce moment, jamais le risque d’un no deal n’a paru aussi élevé. notre résolution reste d’éviter un tel scénario, mais nous avons aussi la responsabilité d’être lucides. c’est la raison pour laquelle, de notre côté, nous allons intensifier nos efforts pour être préparés à cette éventualité. ce travail, la commission européenne, tous ses services, le secrétariat général de la commission, nous avons commencé à le mener depuis plusieurs mois, avec les états membres et avec vous. ce travail va devoir être accéléré en liaison avec tous les partenaires, tous les acteurs qui pourraient être appelés, dans des délais maintenant très brefs, à adopter des mesures d’urgence pour faire face aux conséquences éventuelles de ce scénario. monsieur le président, mesdames et messieurs, en vous remerciant pour votre confiance, je veux dire notre conviction, celle qu’a rappelée frans timmermans, que le compromis que nous avons trouvé au bout de 18 mois avec le gouvernement britannique demeure aujourd’hui le meilleur compromis possible. il est le fruit d’un travail constructif entre les deux parties, tout au long de cette négociation. il est aussi le résultat d’une attitude constructive qui restera la nôtre, la mienne, jusqu’au bout: le calme, l’unité, le dialogue et la transparence. c’est maintenant au gouvernement britannique de clarifier comment le royaume-uni veut procéder pour organiser le retrait ordonné qu’il a lui-même demandé, et comment, au-delà de ce retrait ordonné, il veut bâtir avec nous un partenariat ambitieux et durable. (applaudissements vifs et prolongés)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, four short remarks. first remark: i am proud. i am proud as a european, having in mind the comments after the brexit vote two and a half years ago that a lot of speculation was on the table, that the european union would experience a domino effect, that this would follow as the experience is so strong in great britain. having today’s situation in mind – the 27 member states are so strongly united, the european parliament is backing their positions, we know what we want. that the people in europe feel the strength of unity of being a european union – our irish friends especially have this experience. i think we can be proud of what we have achieved in the last month, thanks to michel barnier, thanks to his engagement, also to jean-claude juncker. that’s good. (applause)the second remark i want to make is that 28 governments said ‘yes’ to a treaty, confirmed the treaty; three institutions at european level said ‘yes’, that’s a good treaty, and now one parliament has said ‘no’ with a clear majority. that means for me that the ball is in the field of our british friends, and not so much on the governmental side, mainly on the parliament side. we have there a camp of hard brexiteers, we have a camp of those who want to stay in the european union, we have a camp of norway—plus, a camp of ceta—plus, whatever; so please tell us, finally, what do you want to achieve? give us a clear orientation and then europe is ready to conclude the negotiations in a good way. the third element i want to put on the table is: reflect again on our goals. we have a difficult political situation ahead of us now and we started with clear principles. for example for me, the idea of the single market and especially the idea of freedom of movement – that europeans on this continent can freely decide where they want to live – is a great achievement of this european union, and i did and i will defend this principle whatever the outcome of a british vote is and what will be. and we have other elements in mind, for example, the idea of avoiding a hard border in northern ireland or the question of keeping the rights of citizens strong and alive. that’s why i must say that i don’t see any room for manoeuvre if our british friends want to have renegotiations, and if they have further requests in the negotiations then we have also the right to ask further questions and then we open the whole box – not only the british questions would be on the table if there were to be any kind of renegotiation. so for me there is at the moment no room for manoeuvre in any renegotiations. and the final statement i want to make is that i am traveling around europe at the moment, as a candidate like we all do, and i see nobody in the european union who thinks that the british approach is a clever approach. nobody is telling me this. people in the european union tell me more that they see political chaos and the economic uncertainty in the british development. that’s why our main message in the election campaign ahead of us is: don’t follow the nationalists, don’t follow the egoists, they are liars. it’s much better to reform the european union than to leave or even destroy the european union.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president, dear mr barnier, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i believe that this debate - as well as many other statements from the capitals - shows that the european union remains united on this issue. 27 countries and their institutions agree, but there is no agreement in the uk. that's the real problem. we will stand by our unity and defend the integrity of the internal market and the unity of this european union. that's our interest. the second point is that yesterday a coalition of opposites was found. they have nothing to do with the content of a solution, the hard brexiteers and the remainers and all that is in between, who said no because they have different ideas and desires. i think that theresa may is no longer in a position to offer a constructive solution in the face of this situation. now, after two years, to say that we will talk to the opposition seems to me two years too late. i think it is important now that a proposal is made from parliament, that a constructive solution comes from the british parliament, and that we can then talk about it. and if, for example, mr corbyn has said that he wants to have a customs union, then he should put that proposal forward, get a majority for it. i would like to add that this would not be a problem for us under the present circumstances and that we would welcome a solution here. and if there is a constructive solution, then we should do it accordingly. i mean, it's over now with partisan and personal ambitions in british politics that have made it impossible for there to be a majority within and between parties. so we should wait until the british have put their things together.
i have to say, madam president, we know that the current solution on the table has failed. we know that a no-deal brexit is catastrophic, and the northern ireland problem is not solved. so all that remains is to ask the people again. the commission has already asked the council to take a decision on the matter. i'm not going to. democracy is the rule of the people, not dwelling on a mistake. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to make a serious request to this house: we should not sit on our hands when we negotiate as we have done so far. all i heard in this house was, in the end, god punish england! that's the wrong attitude. we must ask: what do we need for europe, what do we need for britain? that is the way negotiations must be conducted and that is how they succeed.
first vice-president of the commission. – madam president, without the resilience of the british people in our darkest hour we would probably not be sitting here. my country too is grateful for the freedom that british soldiers brought to our shores. there is an unbreakable link between the united kingdom and europe, and whether the united kingdom is in the european union or not it will be part of europe in a way that will define our common destiny. now it pains me to see the united kingdom as divided as it is today: the division caused by brexit has a paralysing effect on british society. i will remain eternally grateful not just for our liberty but also for the british teachers i had as a young lad, who taught me to love british literature and art, who taught me the english language, and this will not change whatever happens. but i want to make one thing perfectly clear in reaction to what was said by mr kamall and by mr farage. i have not encountered, in the commission with michel barnier, nor in any of the 27 capitals, a punitive attitude in this process. nobody wants to punish the united kingdom for leaving the european union. (applause)in the negotiations we have seen an attitude, in all the capitals and in the commission, of wanting to do as little harm as possible in this process. however, let’s not create the illusion that this could be a process without harm. brexit will do harm to the united kingdom and to the european union. it is our collective responsibility to limit that harm as much as possible. now, what will happen in the next weeks, months and perhaps years is up to the british people to decide – which means, in the first place, up to the house of commons, where this discussion will be held. and we will have to play with the hand that will be dealt by britain in this, whatever our thoughts are. i’ve never made a secret of the fact that, of course, i would prefer the united kingdom to stay in the european union, but that’s not up to us. that’s up to the british people and the british politicians to decide. i also want to make one thing very clear in relation to what mr kamall said about the internal market and other elements of the european union. you can’t honestly say ‘i’m going to leave the european union, but i’m going to take with me everything i like’ regardless of what that does to the european union. i think we are under an obligation – as european politicians, as member states, as institutions – to safeguard the essential elements of what it means to be part of the european union, which includes the integrity of the four freedoms, which includes the integrity of the internal market. that is non-negotiable. what also astonishes me is that mr farage’s pipe dream of independence would lead him to disregard completely the fundamental importance of the good friday agreement for peace in europe. it is absolutely clear to the commission that we have a collective responsibility as europeans to make sure that peace remains on the island of ireland. (applause) and, for that peace, in our analysis, it is essential that there are no hard borders in ireland. therefore we need the backstop: that also is non-negotiable. and, while it’s encouraging on the one hand that we have this level of european solidarity, that no one in the 27 capitals will throw ireland under the bus in any circumstances, it is mind boggling that so many people in westminster would not see the essential value of the good friday agreement and, for their pipe dream, would sacrifice stability and peace in ireland. (applause) i’m not even talking about the jobs lost, the investment opportunities lost and all of that. it would have been honest, in this campaign that led to the brexit vote – which we respect – if they’d said: ‘we want this so much that we don’t care that you lose your job, we don’t care that investment will be lost, we don’t care that there will be havoc in the nhs, we don’t care that there will be havoc on the roads. we don’t care, we just want this, regardless of the consequences.’ that would have been an honest brexit campaign. anyway, we will wait for the decisions in westminster and the uk. we will continue in an honest way with our project to do as little harm as possible, regardless of the cards that we will be dealt. mr kamall quoted the eagles. let me stay closer to home and quote the rolling stones: ‘you can’t always get what you want but, if you try, sometimes you might get what you need.’ (applause)
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, we obviously have to be hopeful that the parliamentary process in the uk will lead to an outcome conducive to an orderly withdrawal and we have to be as supportive of this process as possible. should this positive scenario indeed materialise, then we have to realise that the agreement reached on 25 november was just the first step in a long process. we will have to keep the implementation of the withdrawal agreement under close watch so that it delivers in the interest of citizens and businesses. the negotiations on the future relationship are unlikely to be easy. we will therefore count on your cooperation at all the stages of these processes in the years to come. thank you very much once again for your attention.
in writing. the situation in the uk is extremely worrying. we are clear that the withdrawal agreement will not be renegotiated. we must now wait and see what course the british government takes. we need a clear position from london. there's too much at stake. i hope that a no-deal brexit can be averted, because the damage that such a break will cause will be devastating for our economy and the uk economy.
in writing. – the impasse that faces both the eu and the uk results from the deeply flawed method by which the brexit negotiations have been conducted. these have been designed in two sequences: first to establish the conditions for an orderly withdrawal; then those of a future relationship. aggravated by huge political fractures on the british side, and the steely determination to maintain unity on the eu side, this approach has been driving both sides towards a brick wall. a divorce process can only be well managed if not just the terms for a separation but also those of any alternative future relationship are mapped out. the two sets of terms are interdependent, as is shown by the ongoing controversies within the british political system regarding whether brexit should be hard or soft. the uk should have been asked first to clear as a matter of principle and policy what future relationship it sought. the eu should have indicated what relationship it found acceptable. agreement would have been sought on this. negotiations would then have been about proceeding from a status of full membership to that of the proposed new relationship. instead, another episode is being played in a soap opera that frankly has become rather dreary.
president of the government of spain. mr president of the european parliament, mr vice-president of the european commission, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour, a real honour to address you all to bring spain's vision to the exciting debate on the future of the european union. and i say "exciting" with all conviction and from my own life experience. in 1985, when the act of accession of spain to the then european economic community was signed, i was 13 years old. and despite the passage of time, i remember that day vividly. i remember the emotion felt by those who had suffered for decades the absence of democracy and freedom in my country, spain. i remember the emotion of a whole generation of spaniards, my parents' generation, men and women for whom europe meant, during many years of dictatorship, freedom and the rule of law, progress and cohesion. that moment represented many things for spain, above all it represented the guarantee that there would be no turning back; that, at last, we were at peace with our history; that at last no one, ever, would ever again take away democracy from our country. (applause) since then, subsequent generations of spaniards - my own - have seen the internal borders become relics of history and have built solidarity and affection with peoples once distant. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a mere spectator, but must be a witness to the reality of the situation. so yes, you can consider me a passionate europeanist. proud of what that attribute represents and, precisely, proud now, when some are using anti-europeanism as a supposed electoral asset. thank you, mr president, for giving me the opportunity to address this parliament. it seems to me that it is a great success to place it at the heart of this debate, precisely when we are about to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the first european elections. the union cannot be understood without the primacy of democratic values. ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to refer to the vote in the british parliament yesterday. i respect - as it cannot be otherwise, as the president of the government of a member state - but i can only regret the negative rejection of the agreement on the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union. it is an agreement which has been negotiated for over a year and a half and which i would also like to acknowledge in the person of the principal negotiator, michel barnier, the extraordinary work he has done to maintain the unity of the 27 member states. as i was saying, a deal that has been negotiated for a year and a half, and which i believe is the best possible deal. it is the option that best protects the interests of the united kingdom and also of all the member states of the union and, therefore, of european society. it is the option which protects not only the rights of its citizens but also the rights of the main economic operators. the agreement therefore contains a balance of concessions which is very difficult to achieve and which seeks, first and foremost, an orderly exit. it is for the united kingdom government to adapt or adopt the decisions it considers appropriate on the steps to be taken. we are, as member states and also as community institutions, doing our job; taking, both member states and the european commission, the necessary measures to minimise the impact of a possible no-deal exit. ladies and gentlemen, i have always expressed my opinion, both in the spanish parliament and in successive interviews with the media, that brexit is a disgrace for the british people and also for the european union as a whole. no one wins; we all lose, especially the british and, in particular, those who need their government's protection the most, those who are the most vulnerable. but it is a sovereign decision which we can only respect and for that reason i want the united kingdom to choose to maintain as close a relationship as possible with the european union as a whole. the decision is theirs, but our principles are clear: the integrity of the internal market, the indivisibility of the four freedoms and the union's decisionmaking autonomy. within these three points we shall always meet. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to speak to you about the need to mobilise europe. i would like to speak to you about the need to relegitimize europe in the face of new challenges, but also in the face of those who want to destroy europe. let us be clear: there are important actors inside and outside who want the union to be destroyed. as the leader of the social democratic family, i know that i am expected to speak about social europe, about a europe that protects, and i will do so because i believe that social europe is the europe of convictions. it is precisely because of this moral conviction and because it is necessary to reconcile the idea of europe with what is expected of it by the citizens that, if you ask me what is the central idea of my speech, it is a much broader appeal. it is very simple, it is summed up in one sentence: in order for europe to protect, it is up to us, right now, at this historic time, to protect europe. protecting europe is building a europe of rights that protects the most vulnerable. (applause) it is to promote a europe of opportunities for our young people and also for the longterm unemployed - who do not necessarily have to be 60 years old, but in countries like mine are 45 and suffering from longterm unemployment - it is to move towards a social europe that strengthens our business and industrial fabric, but also safeguards labour rights against the precariousness that is flooding the labour markets of each and every member state of the union. protecting europe means ensuring the security and defence of our fellow citizens by means of making the union a global player, capable of defending its values and ideals. protecting europe is reaffirming our commitment to the paris agreement in the fight against climate change. it is also to complete economic and monetary union once and for all. only then, with a europe which is reconciled with its citizens, with a europe which is autonomous in defending its welfare state model, with a europe which is the culmination of the economic and monetary architecture, can we meet the challenges of the coming decades with sufficient guarantees. so this is no time to waver. i say to the enemies of europe that our conviction and our determination will defeat authoritarianism. the rhetoric of exclusion by some may be harsh, their methods and lies may be logically questionable, but it is time to show conviction and determination in defending our common project which is europe. today, a real battle is being fought in the field of ideas. this is a scenario in which, surely, that battle is also being fought, as in all and every one of the national parliaments: involution versus progress. we know that the future can never be won by taking steps backwards and that is why we cannot retreat an inch in defending the european model. europe protects if each and every one of us - not just the member states, not just the european parliament and the national parliaments, not just civil society, but all citizens - protects europe. i say to those who are also spreading messages of withdrawal from this platform that europe is not and will never be a threat to the extraordinary diversity of our countries, our languages, our cultures. europe is the complete opposite. europe is the multiplication, never the division of identities. you're not less spanish because you're european, quite the opposite. the european union has never been and will never be a mere geographical expression, it is what unites us. it was, is and always will be a community of values, the values of the french revolution: freedom, equality, fraternity - so important in our days - values that are characteristic of open and optimistic societies, those that innovate and those that create, because they see the future as an opportunity and never as a threat. societies that link the necessary competitiveness and economic development with something fundamental that defines us as europeans, such as social cohesion and our welfare model. this commitment is like the one that unites us in the sustainable development goals of the 2030 agenda, which is a true global contract for the next decade, which must find its main activist and ambassador in europe. ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that there is social disenchantment in the context of globalisation. we live it in every street, in every village, in the squares of our cities across the continent. the disillusionment that fuels the extreme rhetoric stems from a great paradox: on the one hand, globalisation has redistributed wealth between regions of the planet and, consequently, reduced global inequality; but, on the other hand, it increases inequality within or within our own societies. and, in short, if we think about it, the rise of anti-european messages owes much to the latter phenomenon. however, globalization is not a natural disaster that we should be helpless to deal with. goethe said that parents should give their children roots and wings. similarly, the european union must provide its citizens with roots - that is, an anchor, protection, a shelter and wings - ultimately empowering them so that they can thrive on opportunities in a global world. we are facing a change of era, ladies and gentlemen, and on 26 may a new political cycle will begin in europe. and the priority must therefore be to regulate globalisation to ensure the viability of the european social model. we must consolidate the foundations of economic and monetary union, complementing it with the indispensable basis of political, social and - i would also like to add - environmental union. a decade after it began, many of our fellow citizens are still suffering the consequences of the great recession in the form of wage inequality, social exclusion, precariousness, falling wages. a crisis that unfairly associated the idea of europe with austerity. the austerity, by the way, of those who were always austerity-minded out of necessity, versus those who were never austerity-minded and were behind the responsibility for the financial crisis that affected and struck all european societies. (applause) the consequence was inequality, and especially inequality between generations, inequality that young people in our continent suffer. and of course, gender inequality, because women are suffering with greater impact and intensity from precariousness and inequality in the workplace. so inequality, precariousness and the weakening of the welfare state. that narrative, we have to admit, divided societies, but it also divided us, as a union: it divided countries into north and south, east and west, creditor and debtor countries. so it is time to close that stage and relegitimize europe where it is needed most, which is among the citizens. and to achieve this, we must demand a social europe, a europe of rights. social and territorial cohesion is an essential pillar and, i would say, unique in the world of european societies. to regain its legitimacy, the union must promote a new social contract; make globalisation, with european backing, a source of opportunities and not just a source of threats. strengthening social cohesion, with clear and measurable targets for employment, for social justice and also for the sustainability of our welfare state, is indispensable. we must reinforce this perspective in the european economic coordination procedures and also in cohesion policy. that, ladies and gentlemen, is the philosophy behind the proposal that the spanish government has put forward in the european council, namely the creation of a european unemployment insurance scheme - a genuine backstop for people - from which to give substance to concepts as important to those of us who believe in the union as solidarity and european citizenship. this is a path which we must actively promote in parallel with the completion of economic and monetary union. and in the same vein, it is imperative that we complete the task entrusted to us by the european trade unions - the directive on reconciliation of personal and professional life and also the directive on transparent and predictable working conditions throughout the european union - and ensure that all people, regardless of their race, sex or age, have access to free, or better, decent work on our continent. the union must be involved in the fight against job insecurity. uncertainty in work means uncertainty in life, and we cannot allow the idea that young people in our continent are destined to live worse than the previous generation to be silenced. it is essential at this point - and this is the position of the government of spain - to bet on the youth guarantee. ladies and gentlemen, seven months ago spain formed a government with more women than any other oecd country. it is a milestone on the road to real and effective equality between men and women, which still has a long way to go. (applause) a path we could never have travelled without the drive and the example and the inspiration of europe. so today, in this house, i would like to thank in particular the commitment of women, of female members of parliament from all over the continent to an ideal which is already part of the european heritage, namely feminism. in the cause of gender equality, what i can guarantee you is that spain will not take any steps back; we will continue to take steps forward. but we also need the competition from europe. that is why i am proposing today the adoption of a binding eu gender equality strategy, a strategy to combat the gender gap, the higher unemployment rate for women and the precariousness that women suffer particularly badly from. let europe's voice lead the way in this fight, which is already 'the 21st century' - the century of women. (applause) we must, ladies and gentlemen, make progress in making the principles of the european pillar of social rights binding, in equal opportunities in access to the labour market and in fair working conditions, as well as in social protection and social inclusion. i therefore reiterate my support for the regulation on the european labour authority to guarantee the rights of workers in the labour market. europe must be able to expand and guarantee equal opportunities in access to all studies, including those of high quality. in culture, in science, in research, we will all agree that we have a fundamental bulwark against those who want to destroy the european dream. ladies and gentlemen, to ensure the security of our citizens and to strengthen our role in the world as a genuine global player, we must move forward decisively and with determination in the europe of security and defence. a little over a year ago we launched the permanent structured cooperation. we are taking the first steps towards building our own defence capabilities after decades of paralysis. and now is the time to do it decisively. we must move forward openly in the creation of a genuine european army. the union, ladies and gentlemen, must show the world that it is a soft power - if i may use the expression - by choice, not by weakness. by conviction. the ability to project forces together, beyond our borders, and the political will to do so, are fundamental conditions for being a credible power on the international stage. the union is a model that is certainly attractive to the world in many ways. we often forget, but that's how it is. it is precisely the union that enables us to aspire to a leading role on a global scale. we represent the possibilities of a multilateral order, which is now being called into question by very important international forces; a multilateral order based on law and commonly accepted rules. spain is ready to contribute to this leadership. i'm going to serve. and we are making a decisive contribution, thanks to our privileged relationship with latin america, north africa and the middle east. but, nevertheless, in the face of the great global challenges, europe's weight is much less than in other areas where the union has exclusive competence. and in this connection, i would like to make a few remarks. we have to become a true global player. today we are not. and to do that, the unanimity rule must be abolished, not only in foreign policy but also in such important matters as taxation, the multiannual budget and the mechanism for verifying respect for the rule of law and human rights. (applause) protecting europe means, today more than ever, equipping it with the tools that must necessarily be agile in decision-making. in short, to bet on a new sovereignty, which is the sovereignty you represent, which is not more or less important than european sovereignty. and thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, we must complete the architecture of the single currency and make progress on the multiannual financial framework. fifty years ago, in the hague, the heads of state and government of the then european economic community paved the way for economic and monetary union. and the paradox is that the final year of each decade has always been marked by a substantial advance in this field. note: in 1969, the hague summit, to which i referred earlier; in 1979, the adoption of the european monetary system; in 1989, the delors plan to achieve economic and monetary union; and in 1999, the official introduction of the euro. between this latest date, 1999, and the year we just released, 2019, there is only one striking gap in this almost perfect sequence, which is the year 2009, when the international financial crisis revealed the flaws in our single currency architecture. so, nothing illustrates the impact of the crisis better than this broken cadence. so, let's make this 2019 a year to definitely move forward. the euro, in my view, despite the difficulties it has naturally entailed, especially in difficult times such as the crisis decade, is a success story that brings economic and also political benefits to the european project. but without the reforms needed to strengthen our single currency, economic union will remain incomplete and prone to instability. it is not just a question of strengthening the financial system through a banking union on the three fundamental and mutualised pillars - that is obvious, you know it and have defended it - but also of undertaking, in the medium term, closer fiscal integration. with stabilisation tools to mitigate adverse effects on economic activity and employment in the event of future crises. the re-legitimization of europe in this area seems to me to be the key. it is fundamental. and to do that, citizens must feel that they are the protagonists of these reforms, they must feel that they are at the heart of these reforms: protecting their savings, protecting them from inflation or protecting and sheltering them in the face of economic crises and unemployment. a common currency is a key pillar in a shared political project such as the european union. the reform of economic and monetary union must ensure that social protection and inclusion are present from the very conception of our common economic policies. the time is now. moreover, it is this, when economic conditions continue to be favourable. let politics, for once, be ahead of the curve. let us not allow these to set the agenda of the european union again. we must complete the structure of the euro before the next crisis weakens our currency and our union. let us learn from recent experience and move forward with determination; we cannot afford the price we know inaction would have to pay. for the institutions, but above all for those we represent in this forum and in many other institutions, at national level. and look, with regard to the new multiannual financial framework, we are facing new challenges to be met. but we must also consolidate strategic initiatives such as the common agricultural policy or the cohesion policies, which are so important for countries like spain; urban europe cannot be separated from rural europe, if i may summarize this reflection. the reduction of the budget means accepting the idea that europe is retreating, that europe is going backwards. so let us also think about who benefits from such messages. the commission proposal, in the view of the spanish government, contains positive elements, very positive elements, such as the level of expenditure, the external dimension of migration policy, to which i shall refer later, or the strengthening of the programmes for innovation and technological development. europe needs to be sovereign in innovation, and reduce its dependence on artificial intelligence, quantum computing, cybersecurity and automation. only by pooling our capabilities and resources can we compete with certainty. and that is why the proposal to double the funds of the erasmus programme is particularly timely, and of course the spanish government supports it. but progress must also be made along other lines. there must be a european response to phenomena which we thought were banished from our societies, and which are increasing at the expense of increasing inequality, such as child poverty. the europe of opportunities starts, ladies and gentlemen, from childhood. that is why i want to expressly support, as president of the spanish government, the need to promote a child guarantee to tackle social exclusion at an earlier stage. (applause) ladies and gentlemen, the proposal we have - albeit lacking in this area - is a good starting point. but it's time to take a leap forward. our union is worth much more, it weighs much more than 1% of the european gross national product. so, prudence in spending, rationality in spending and the ability to address the priorities derived from the transnational challenges we face. we all benefit from a reasonable, forward-looking union budget that creates synergies and economies of scale. to protect europe is to advance - as i said - the social europe, the defence europe and the economic and monetary union. a europe, in short, federal, which regains its legitimacy if it regains the favour of its citizens; which needs to confront the tale of distance with measures that make it a reality close by; and which finds its north, its guide, in the values that identify it. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to return to that idea when i turn to the last part of my speech, which refers to the challenges of climate change and migration. in both cases, i want to appeal to clearly european values. and to do so from a sincere desire to reach consensus, beyond ideological boundaries; consensus that unites against those who stand to gain most from the division of those of us here. these are the chosen battlefields, if we think about it, for those who do not believe and will never believe in europe. they're the conceptual framework from which they try to undermine the foundations of liberal democracy. this is where i again call for the need to protect europe. we must preserve and defend our european model, but also our european values. on climate change, recent international forums have shown the advance of skeptical, resigned, or even belligerent positions. our approach in this area must combine global commitment with future opportunity. the energy transition can and must be a vector for modernisation and the creation of opportunities in our countries. but also cohesion, with the drive for energy interconnections to improve our efficiency and reduce emissions. the consequences of this challenge are devastating. you have certainly discussed this on many occasions in this forum. the very existence of this challenge reaffirms the validity of political union. because neither authoritarianism nor exclusionary nationalism can deny the evidence that against this challenge of climate change, there is nothing that borders can do. that's why they're in irrational denial. climate change is fought with reason and science. and they're both on our side. on the side of a europe whose voice is essential in the face of the retreat of very important actors on the international stage. and in similar terms i would also like to refer to the second area to which i referred earlier, namely the question of migration. we are talking about a subject, ladies and gentlemen, in which joint and coordinated action, in collaboration with the countries of origin, transit and destination, is essential. for spain, this perspective is crucial. especially since we are the external border of the union. in this respect, we are very aware of the key role played by countries which are very important for the whole of the european continent, but also for spain, such as the kingdom of morocco, in this area in terms of cooperation and control. a role which i would like to emphasize in this house. we need to push for a parallel global approach to this matter. the marrakesh conference represents or represented a first step towards a multilateral management of the migration issue, and spain is, unfortunately, one of the very few european countries to have signed this global pact. i am well aware, as you all are, of the divisive potential of this debate in our societies. but we cannot start from a negative approach to the migration issue, focusing exclusively on irregular migration. regular migration has positive implications for our economic development; it plays a key role in labour shortage sectors and helps to alleviate one of the challenges facing our continent, namely population ageing. but there is no possible response to this challenge without a commitment to a continent, to africa, that needs a profound socioeconomic transformation. this medium- and long-term policy must go hand in hand with border control, which is an obligation of each and every member state. a single area without external borders requires a common migration policy, in which the reform of the common european asylum system takes a central place. we need rules adapted to the present reality and two principles must guide this reform, namely the principles of responsibility and solidarity. the complexity of the negotiations should not make us lose sight of the original purpose of this reform when it was proposed: to fulfil our duties 'derived from international conventions for the protection of human rights' towards people fleeing persecution, war and conflict. the prestige of europe, ladies and gentlemen, is called into question when attitudes emerge within us which are contrary to the most essential humanity. being compassionate and empathetic toward others helps us to be compassionate toward ourselves. europe does not follow fashions, ladies and gentlemen. europe, with its democratic heritage, is the trendsetter. there lies our fortress. ladies and gentlemen, our division here in the union is our greatest weakness. it is only for the benefit of those who, as i said at the beginning of my speech, seek the failure, the bankruptcy and the defeat of our model. a model that crystallises in a triangle, in my opinion, virtuous and unique in the world: democracy, economic progress and the welfare state. overcoming our divisions requires mutual understanding and fighting stereotypes. in may of this year, we faced a crucial test. we are facing those who are carrying a message that is already known on this continent, ladies and gentlemen. a message that burned this land to the ground decades ago, not many. even then, many people thought that this rhetoric and gestures were harmless. peace, democracy and freedom can never be taken for granted. i saw him with my own eyes in the late 1990s in bosnia, working for the united nations in a city ravaged by civil war and hatred. in sarajevo. the barbarism that we thought was banished from the history of this continent became present when no one expected it. fueled by forces that always put hatred before reason and coexistence. the strength of these forces does not only threaten our project of integration. it also subtly conditions - and i would also like to put this to all of you - the agenda of actors who are opposed to them in principle. today, i ask this house that no europeanist should be dragged along by these forces. i am addressing all of you to ask you to remain firm in defending european values and to resist the siren song of authoritarianism. because they have one goal, and that is to destroy europe. that is why i am calling today for the need to protect europe, so that europe protects its citizens, the europeans. i am convinced that in the years to come our common project will continue to move forward despite the difficulties. there will be divergences, of course, there will be setbacks, but, without a doubt, in global computing there will be more advances than setbacks. consensus that will not satisfy anyone. that is the toll we must take with all naturalness. the union is the synthesis of different and even opposing ideas. ideas that confront one another peacefully to achieve advances in well-being and prosperity, preserving stability in an ever-changing world. we have, however, despite the difficulties, a solid foundation: solidarity in fact, which has not ceased to grow over the last few years. we see it every time we've been hit by terrorism. they are the germ of a real, tangible european citizenship. when a spanish citizen covers his profile on a social network with the flag of france, in solidarity with a terrorist attack in paris, he is embracing the flag of europe. when a german citizen feels that the attack on the ramblas in barcelona is his own, he is embracing the flag of europe. and when we honour the victims of the terrible terrorist attack that struck this very city of strasbourg just a month ago, we are embracing the flag of europe. (applause) europe's enemies can do nothing against this growing feeling of invisible but real solidarity. it must take root, especially among the young, among the young people of europe. they are the ones who display the european flag as a symbol against injustice, against authoritarian tendencies, against sexism or against racism. or simply to express their displeasure at decisions that were contrary to the logic of the times and their interests. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. being conservative in the face of uncertainty makes us more vulnerable. it is determination, conviction in our ideas, that will enable us to regain the momentum we lost. we are facing an authoritarianism that lives on invented nostalgia. but there is no worse nostalgia than longing for what never never happened, as a great spanish author sings. i ask all those who live on such invented nostalgia, and i stress the 'invented' one: was peace firm when the borders separated us? was there economic progress when customs restricted trade? have social and citizenship rights in each member state advanced more than they have in recent years in the european union as a whole? very close to here, on the battlefields of world war i, we have the answer. that is why i want to say today: against involution, progress. against the rhetoric of exclusive identities, identities that add up, that don't cancel each other out. the past, as a good colleague from the party of european socialists and an outstanding vice-president of the european commission, franz timmermans, told me, will never be the future of our societies. the past is a place to learn from our successes and our mistakes. it is time to mobilize for europe. it is time to protect and defend the values that make our project unique in the world. envy in the world. only then can we defeat those from outside, but also from within, who want to destroy our ideals. and they want to do so, and i would like to emphasize and remind them of this, for one reason only: the values which the union stands for. the defence of these values must be our response. we need conviction and determination along this road, ladies and gentlemen. combining ideals with the pursuit of pragmatism, as we have done for the last 60 years of our lives. our task, as heirs and custodians of this great legacy, is to preserve and improve what we have received in order to pass it on to future generations of europeans. if there's one lesson we've learned, it's that at specific moments in our history, like the one we're in, to resist is to advance. today, the generations you represent in this parliament have a single but important task: to protect europe so that europe can protect its citizens. thank you very much. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.30 p.m.)
first vice president of the commission. – mr president, i want to start by thanking prime minister sánchez pérez—castejón for his inspiring speech. one notion he tried to share with us is that, if europe wants to protect its citizens, we politicians have a collective responsibility to protect europe. only a europe that is united and strong can actually protect its citizens. and those who sell the illusion that you can protect citizens by isolating those who are different, by building fences and walls, and by selling a pipe dream of nationalism will only lead to disappointment because there is no protection in protectionism, but there is isolation in isolationism. nations left on their own in europe will not be able to face the many challenges the world is throwing at us. only a united europe can do what its citizens demand, and that is protect them and help them shape their futures as independent people – free people. i know that europe runs deep in pedro sanchez pérez—castejón’s veins. he is from a generation that was the last to be born under dictatorship, a generation that went on to grow up with the hope of freedom and democracy and then to realise the rights and freedoms of european membership, as spain took its rightful place at the heart of europe. the message i have for the spanish government today is – looking back over the last 40 years – that it is right to say that europe shaped spain as it is now, because that was the wish of the spanish people. but i also believe it is right to say now that spain should step up and shape europe. it should take its responsibility as a leading nation in europe. use the potential you have to shape our collective future. (applause) you are strong and resilient. you have shown in this terrible crisis that affected the spanish population how you can come out of it stronger. yes, unemployment is still at 13% – it’s much too high – but you’ve made huge progress in the last couple of years to put that behind you, with a determination from the spanish people that was an inspiration to all of us in the rest of europe. the spanish people also share the analysis that europe is first and foremost about democracy, liberty, freedoms and prosperity, and that these things are precious and can never be taken for granted. spain has such a unique and important place in our union, and its european story goes back much further than 1985, in particular about how much europe owes to the determination and the ideas of people like salvador de madariaga, who helped to build the european project after the second world war. he never gave up on the idea of a free spain and a democratic spain. people who never give up on their ideals, even in the darkest days, are the people who shape our future best. he saw our european destiny as intertwined with the destiny of spain, our identities linked, and our successes linked. this is why he would be proud of what he sees today, a democratic spain, celebrating 40 years of its constitution, now at the heart of a strong and united union. he would be proud of the social and economic progress made since 1985. whilst growth is now above 2%, unemployment, as i said, is still too high at 13%. so there’s clearly a lot that needs to be done, but there are so many positive signals in the economy – the economy that’s back on its feet – and i again want to stress that this is thanks to the courage and determination of the spanish people and also the solidarity of the european people – a solidarity that was more than reciprocated by spain. it did receive solidarity from its european partners during the financial crisis, but it has shown time and again that it will also show solidarity to europe, and it is showing it on a daily basis if i look at the issue of migration. countries like spain and malta, even in difficult times, really show solidarity with people in dire need. spain has been a leader in many respects, and you, pedro, have been a leader in generously welcoming those stranded on board the aquarius boat. this was for me a defining moment in europe when you stood up and said, on behalf of the spanish people, ‘we will not let these people float on the sea and get into trouble’. (applause) that is true political leadership, not the easy way out of looking away, not the easy way out of blaming refugees, but taking the responsibility for their destiny, and i salute you for that. the images of these boats and the divisions caused by only a small number of arrivals on our shores show the need for europe to overcome its differences and find a sustainable solution that works for all. it is now high time we conclude the necessary reform of our common european asylum system (easo). only if we make all these reforms, can we come to a sustainable situation. border protection alone will not get us there. we also need a working asylum system based on solidarity and the fundamental values of the european union. i also want to underscore, pedro, what you said about africa. if there is one continent that will be defining for the future of europe, it is africa. there is no one else in the world that can take this responsibility – or wants to take this responsibility on their shoulders – other than europe. this is our sister continent, a stone’s throw away from our shores, and if we do not work towards a collective responsibility for the future of both continents, then the troubles of africa cannot be kept away from europe, however high the fences you want to build. only stability, prosperity, optimism and a future that people in africa can believe in will create the necessary stability for europe also to be stable, prosperous and free in the future. i call upon you, pedro, to lead in europe and to lead europe to understand that this relationship with africa should not just be an issue for mediterranean members of the european union, but for every single member state, whatever its position in the european union. in our budget, there will be an almost threefold increase in funding for migration and security to reach nearly eur 33 billion. this will be especially important for spain, not only because you have shown such responsibility and solidarity as concerns migrants, but also because you know all too tragically the horror of terrorist attacks on spanish soil. funding for research and innovation will also be increased by 50% and the new digital europe programme, with eur 9 billion, will support europe’s digital transformation. both of these will provide real opportunities to further boost the productivity of the spanish economy. we will build on the success of the juncker plan, which has already triggered more than eur 46.2 billion of investment in spain’s economy and supported almost 150 000 small businesses. it is already making a difference on the ground through cleaner, more efficient buses in palma de mallorca and a new mill for recycling paper in zaragoza for example, creating 110 jobs in the local community and supporting spain’s circular economy in the process. prime minister, i know your government’s strong attachment to the sustainable development goals (sdgs), and i know spain needs to make that transformation, as europe needs to make that transformation. i want to use the opportunity to salute my colleague here, next to me, who has been a leader in the world to make sure that europe can really attain the paris climate goals. i think he has been one of the global leaders in this respect and he deserves our recognition for that. the new programme investeu has the potential to go much further by triggering another eur 650 billion of investment across europe between 2021 and 2027. following in the footsteps of manuel marin, the founder of the erasmus exchange programme, we will more than double its funding to more than eur 30 billion. i had the pleasure of working with manuel marin in the past. if ever there was an explosive character, it was he, but he could get things done. this increase will open up new opportunities for many more young spaniards to gain new skills and experiences. all of us in the rest of europe have had experience with young spanish people coming to work in our countries and we were all inspired by their knowledge, their determination and their openness to differences. all of these investments can, and will, make a real difference on the ground in spain and across our union. so it is crucially important that we can agree on our new budget as swiftly as possible. i count on the support of pedro, his counterparts and this house to make it happen. i also want to emphasise the importance of the equality agenda the spanish government has put forward. why don’t we have a better plan to put an end to the pay gap in europe between men and women? why don’t we all agree that we will put an end to the pension gap, which is still 40% in europe? why don’t we all agree to break the glass ceiling and to make sure that more women are on boards? why do we put 50% of our human potential on the back burner in europe? this is unacceptable. i count on pedro’s government’s leadership to make this happen. why don’t we finally put an end to violence against women? why not? this is our duty. (applause) and why don’t we call out those who falsely claim family values as an excuse to deny women their full rights in society? these are not family values, to say that women should not have full rights. these are not family values if you use them to justify violence in a marriage. never ever can there be a justification for that. prime minister, in my eyes, spain and its european story are an example for the future of our union. it shows what the values that we talk about really mean, and it shows how much can be achieved when we work together, take responsibility and make european solidarity truly meaningful. if europe is to protect, then we need to protect europe. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, mr prime minister, welcome. your presence is a great kick-off for the year 2019 firstly because you as a person, as a leader, are a committed and clearly pro-european prime minister and politician and your country is clearly pro-european. thatʼs why itʼs great to have you here. for spain, europe has meant peace, stability and prosperity for more than four decades, and for europe, spain means strength, fresh ideas and leadership. thatʼs why itʼs great to have you here. secondly, itʼs great because 2019 is a year when we will celebrate democracy in the european union. the european elections will take place. i also thank you for your commitment on the so-called spitzenkandidaten concept. to support franz timmermans in your capacity as a socialist leader gives us a clear indication that you believe in a democratic idea for the future of europe and we have to keep this alive after the elections too – like me? – ... as a reminder. (applause) talking about the future of europe, we have to speak about extremism and nationalism: thatʼs clear, bearing yesterdayʼs vote and the developments in europe in mind. many of the founding fathers of this european dream were christian democrats, liberals, and colleagues from your parties, the socialists and greens. we are in one boat, and the reason why the anti-europeanists are attacking is that we represent everything that they hate. the extreme right is a danger. there is no doubt about this. but let me stress that extremists have no colour. you are a committed pro-european – there is no doubt about this – but your government could not exist without the support of the extreme left and the pro-separatists in the spanish parliament, and that worries us. the answer to populism, we believe, is first of all to create stability, to do a good job as politicians. frans timmermans praised the perfect – not perfect – but very good development of the spanish economy during the last few years since the economic crisis. i want to remind everybody that this was due to the efforts of mariano rajoyʼs government to create the conditions for economic success in spain. (applause) and now you are considering going back on mariano rajoyʼs labour market reforms. that, we think, would be the wrong signal. to create opportunities for the future, to create an economic future, means to be ready for reforms, and a real social europe means creating jobs and increasing peopleʼs income. so please donʼt follow the populists: keep the reforms in place. and the second thing which i want to underline is that we have the utmost respect for your government, even if we donʼt share the same political values and ideas. but we are worried about political stability. for the moment you have been unable to secure a constructive and stable majority in your parliament for a budget for 2019. you are representing one of the biggest economies in the european union, in the eurozone, and such a big economy without a stable budget means less stability and more uncertainty. thatʼs why this cooperation – this sum of the parts of the spanish parliament – is increasing uncertainty in europe. and then, finally, there is migration, which you mentioned. we as the epp have a clear picture, a clear priority. the first way in which we care is with the marshall plan for africa, with the idea of a strong and an ambitious resettlement programme. we want to help people from syria and other regions who need our help. but one thing is clear: illegal migration has to be stopped. we have to destroy the inhuman business model of the smugglers and send illegal migrants, after a fair procedure, back home. and spain has a special responsibility: illegal crossings in spain have doubled for the second consecutive year to 57 000 migrants. i very often hear the argument that it is difficult to protect the border. during the summer break last year i was on the other side of the continent on the bulgarian-turkish border. there the prime minister installed a 5 metre-high fence over more than 180 kilometres, and he showed that if you have the political will, then you can protect the border and stop illegal migrants from crossing borders, for example with a fence. you do this as well in ceuta and melilla, so you have the same concept there. we are looking to you to fight extremists. we have to solve problems, and that means that we are looking to spain to protect borders against illegal migrants. the extreme form of populism is nationalism. the old ghost is alive again, and in spain it has a concrete name. it is a catalan question. we as the epp stand behind the constitution of spain. we stand behind the territorial integrity of spain and we stand behind the government in preserving the unity of spain. europe is built upon the rule of law and spain is built upon the rule of law. we stood beside the rajoy government and we would do the same for you if you needed us. so thatʼs why we should together fight against the nationalists on this continent. my group, for example, voted here in this house in favour of a communist vice-president, but we refused to vote in favour of a far-right vice-president of this house because we want to guarantee that nationalists will never have anything to say about the future of europe. they are our enemies. thank you very much for your presence. we have a lot to do. my group and i thank you for your clear determination in support of spainʼs european path. the epp has a clear direction: no more fears, but hope; no more egoism, but solidarity; no more nationalism, but a common european future. thank you for your contribution.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, mr president of the spanish government, mr pedro, welcome to the european parliament. dear pedro, i cannot help quoting you again: if europe has to protect us, we have to protect europe. i wish that this would be the motto of all european governments. i wish that this would be the slogan of all european leaders and for it to become the new benchmark which everyone with political responsibilities in europe has to live up to. but unfortunately we are far from that. and this is the very reason why we were looking forward to having you here, to listening to you, to this ambitious speech, to this passionate idea of justice and progress for our homeland, europe. the leader is not so simple, kollege weber, as you can imagine. we sit all in one boot. but if we want to counter nationalism, if we want to prevent europe from becoming a victim of right-wing extremism, then we must also develop a certain dynamic. and we must overcome the stagnation of the last decade, where people in europe are waiting for us to give them their jobs, their social situation, their pensions, their prospects in the modern working world. that's the real problem, that everybody always says they're in the same boat, but nobody understands the dynamics, how to navigate the waves, the dangers of the modern world. auf was warten wir denn? what are you waiting for? we know, on the other hand, that someone like putin has no interest in our idea of freedom. we also know, on the other hand, that there is no idea of our wealth, social justice, or how to organize our society. where are we actually waiting? why are we not living in a society that is dynamic? i must say: i was very pleased with what mr sánchez had to say, because it is a programme to bring the european union together against the background of the interests and fears of the people of europe. we must learn to live again! this is the decisive point. the commission is also aware of the fact that the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia. but i must honestly say, it has also pleased me, because it was prepared by the spanish government, one of the countries, and i will stress, was frans timmermans said, in which the fate of europe will be decided. the european union is a country with a rich culture, a country with a long history, a country whose fascist regime has overcome its oppression and developed its democratic strength. we have left spain, and we know that spain is in good hands. the programme that has been drawn up is a programme that my group has adopted and that we are working on ourselves. we are not going to talk about the economy again without the perspective of working people. but we cannot talk about economy and work without recognizing that this is the way the world should be. but this will only work if we take people with us, if we give them hope, if we give them perspective, and it will not work against people. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we must make the people strong, so that they can walk with us. and so the social perspective, the social justice, which we must establish, is a very important part of that. and for the good of the country, yes, it's coming to an end, as we rule. the numerous news that has come from madrid is that it is you, pedro sánchez, that it is possible to put together an intelligent cabinet, a forward-looking cabinet, where competence is bundled, energy and the environment, a high commissioner for the question of sustainability and finally, finally, finally a clear signal not only for gender justice, but also for qualified women in the first row. i wish to see more of them in europe. i would like to congratulate you! we want to work together on the line you have drawn today. (beifall) what are you doing?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. other i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you spoke about the future of europe and - i think you were right - you followed up your speech with your thoughts on brexit. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr vice-president, my father - i am german - remained in the war. our house was bombed by the british in 1943, and i have to tell you, i'm glad we lost the battle of britain to the germans. i'm happy we lost the battle of britain, but i tell you i'll be totally destroyed if we lose the battle for britain. the prime minister said earlier and rightly so that brexit is a lose-lose situation for both, not only for britain, but also for the european union. i believe it is a lose-lose situation economically, politically and morally. economically, because brexit is equivalent to 19 other countries leaving the european union and the common market at the same time; politically because britain has always been the voice of reason, of subsidiarity, of competitiveness and of decentralisation; and morally, because rightly many people in this parliament have said earlier that brexit makes everyone poorer, so it is actually an immoral proposition. in the earlier discussions we heard, everybody here seemed to regret brexit, except these people here to my left, but not a single person has offered anything to stop it. it's time to do that. more than 140 members of this parliament earlier wrote a letter addressed to the people of britain asking them to come up with a second vote. i support that. but they should have written the letter to themselves, because let's not forget - contrary to what mr verhofstadt said - it's not only a catfight within the conservative party, there was a reason for the british to start thinking about europe. in the lisbon treaty we talked about subsidiarity and what was done? more and more centralisation. in the lisbon treaty we talked about competition and what was done? the opposite: harmonization. in the lisbon treaty we talk about self-responsibility of a country for its debts and what are we doing? we are trying to socialize them. so there are good reasons for this parliament, the commission and the council to start doing something else. i agree with everyone who said that it's unlikely we'll come up with a new deal that will help theresa may get the support of parliament, so let's change the strategy. let's offer britain a deal which enables britain to stay in the european union. that is the call of the day, and not moaning and blaming britain. so it is up to us to agree that we have a responsibility for brexit. so let's offer a new deal to britain for them to stay in the european union, and that can only be a special temporary deal on immigration. so that's what i'm saying. so instead of always blaming britain, let us recognize that europe and brussels are part of the problem. they should become part of the solution. let's fight a battle for britain.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank the prime minister for his speech, which i believe was very strong and very pro—european, and i’m happy about that because a lot of people are very concerned when it comes to the future of europe. we see many governments who are actually falling short of providing rule of law and progress on democracy in their countries. so it’s good to see that things can be done differently – very good to see. let me congratulate you specifically on some of the measures that have already been taken in spain, which reflect the commitments you were voicing here. namely, first, your decision to increase the minimum salary to eur 900, which helps many families who suffered considerably in the past from the budgetary cuts and anti—social reforms, and also, especially, in combination with your taxation reform, which will be a great improvement. we want a true social union, and for that we need more effort in the council and in every single member state, so i really hope that others will follow your example. secondly, your decision to make sure that families who put up solar panels on their roofs will actually benefit from doing so is a way not only to combat climate change but also to reward people for their own initiative and make sure that everyone will contribute in this big quest to save our planet. we need these concrete steps. lastly, i’m very happy that, as you also mentioned today, your cabinet has the highest proportion of women in the whole european union. women’s rights are human rights, and we’re still far from real gender equality but we need to take progressive steps here. we are seeing a big backlash in many member states inside the european union against women’s rights, against human rights, and it’s very good to see that there are still some governments left who can champion an ambitious agenda on gender equality. however, your job in spain is certainly not an easy one and, of course, you’ve inherited a lot of problems, among them the situation in catalunya. the harsh and uncompromising way in which your conservative predecessor dealt with the issue hardened the conflict and made it worse. now the issue is on your desk, and it’s very clear that only a democratic political solution can open the way forward, and this includes a solution for the prisoners. two former members of our political group are currently in prison and what they’re accused of does not stand up to scrutiny, as has been pointed out by courts in belgium and in germany. so we urge you to initiate a sincere dialogue because only goodwill from both sides will bring us closer to a solution, and that is sorely needed for catalunya, for the whole of spain and for the whole of europe. prime minister, you mentioned european values and how all of us need to stand up for them. i am very concerned in that regard when i look at andalusia because an extremist right—wing party will be included in a governmental deal and tolerated in the government. i am sad to see that the conservatives and liberals are agreeing to a deal which will not only make sure that those nationalists have a say in our future and the future in andalusia, but which also goes beyond that context. i am sure that many of you are concerned about that. i’m sure that many of you are not happy about it, but it is something on which, precisely, you can take concrete action, and all of us and all our groups have to work towards ensuring that this does not happen – because it’s a shameful deal, as it would be for any one of us to make a coalition with an extremist, nationalist, right—wing party. let’s not do that. use all the powers that you have in your hands – and you have those powers – to end that deal. we support the women who are protesting right now for gender equality because machismo and violence against women have no place anywhere in the european union. i would like to remind you, prime minister, that many of the goals that you mentioned – all of them, in fact: gender equality, ecology and social europe – need action at european level, so we hope you will take the initiative in the council as well. we hope for your support in the council, and we hope your colleagues in the council will follow your example. and, if you are going to continue working for a progressive, social, ecological and democratic europe, then you can count on our support.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the great social democrat ferdinand lassalle said that politics begins with the observation of reality. we celebrated the euro here yesterday and i heard six speeches that had nothing to do with reality. you have presented a nightmare. mr president, you want a social europe. a social europe is one which provides work and employment for its citizens and prospects for its young people. that's the key. you have to ask yourself: why is the euro area the slowest growing region in the world? why is that? why are we doing investment programs? mr timmermans said how wonderful mr juncker's work was. yes, we need private investment. why don't we have private investment? because there is a rift in europe, and that rift is the euro. look at germany, where tax revenues are plentiful. we don't have unemployment there. in other countries we have a precariat, or as they say, we work for less money. we are working more for less, and this is not the social europe we want.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr prime minister! my request would be that if you compare catalonia and bavaria, that the facts are right and that you listen now. there was only one ultra-left independence movement in bavaria over 100 years ago, at a time when the federal republic of germany or the german empire did not exist. there is a big difference with the catalans, so please don't make these comparisons, they don't fit. secondly, you have just said here what needs to be done at european level. i'd like to hear what your government is doing. it is not enough to call for a european unemployment insurance scheme if you also withdraw the measures taken by the previous government to liberalize the labour market. this means that the growth of jobs in spain is falling sharply. they themselves do not take any action to create more employment for young people. i wish i'd heard that. it is not enough to call for european solidarity, but it is also necessary to take action of one's own. subsidiarity and solidarity are closely linked.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr. president, i'm delighted that you're here to do us the honor. we have high hopes that you will take spain forward with your new style of politics, which is to listen to the needs of the people. i can tell you that many people in germany have a very positive image of the new social democratic government. instead of confrontation, you are looking for negotiation and moderation, instead of a backward policy, you are looking for better protection for women, instead of pure austerity, you are looking for economic incentives and economic growth and a balanced budget. i would ask you to tell us what the implementation of new labour market laws might look like; the previous conservative government used neoliberal methods to deprive the workers of their rights. what can you do to strengthen the position of workers again?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not europe, particularly in the 20th century, has a history of confusion, war crimes and injustice, but also a history of success: with the founding of the european union, the fall of the iron curtain and the deepening of european integration. democracy needs remembrance. only those who are aware of the past can shape the future. the founding of the european union and the common defence of the fundamental values of an open, liberal and pluralistic society are the lessons we have drawn from the darkest chapter of the european history of the 20th century. looking at the past helps us to find solutions for the present and the future by recognizing mistakes, by becoming aware of how they came about, and also by admitting guilt, even for acts for which we are not responsible. the kneeling of willy brandt in warsaw is the most remarkable example of such an admission of guilt. i would like to draw attention to the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. it's not gonna work. history is always long, complicated, varied and, above all, contradictory, even in its own narration. the culture of memory never claims to be absolute truth. there are historical facts that cannot be denied or dismissed. but a culture of memory that doesn't clarify contradictions and tries to tell the events from only one perspective is pointless. something like this unites nothing that divides. a culture of remembrance is always successful when it clarifies fractions and recognizes that black and white, winners, losers, heroes, perpetrators or victims often do not work that way and that questions of guilt and complicity are not so easy to answer. the culture of memory is successful when the doubt remains with oneself. in this respect, the culture of remembrance also helps to combat populism. it exhorts us to examine our own viewpoint. thirty years after the fall of the iron curtain, we should remember that those who claimed absolute truth for themselves have fallen. totalitarianism and populism have one thing in common: they demand not a culture of memory, but a narrative of history from the point of view of the supposed winner. we should make that distinction clear. this is what we should teach our children, so that they are prepared.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european parliament has already said that it will not be able to vote on the report. no freedom of speech, no freedom of travel, exclusion, oppression, fear, horror, surveillance state - this is what life is like in totalitarian regimes. this has been a part of european history for many years and has, thank god, been overcome and hopefully will be overcome in the european union in the future. in order to ensure that this does not happen again in the future, this part of our history must not be forgotten. we must keep alive the memory of nazism, fascism and the totalitarian communist regimes, and this reminder must remain in the minds of the people. the european union has a long tradition of supporting the development of a culture of remembrance, and the european union has a long tradition of supporting the development of a culture of remembrance. the scientific study of history at universities is also of particular importance. we have a responsibility to future generations to ensure that this never happens again, that totalitarianism never has a place in europe again.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the european parliament has already said that it is not possible to take a decision on the matter, but it is necessary to take a decision on the matter. but when it comes to talking about shared values, it gets even more difficult. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. it is good that we have these debates and that they can be held openly, with an open outcome. it is not just about valuing the community, but also the individual. it is not just a question of the european dimension, as has been said here, and it is certainly not a question of the one truth. it is totalitarian regimes that speak of "the truth". truth is a battle to be fought. it is the task of the education system, but it is not the task of the state institutions to educate. this is a classic sign of totalitarian regimes. the european union should not even be starting with this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. fundamental rights are the permanent and enforceable rights of the individual citizen. they are fundamental to the european understanding of the rule of law, the separation of powers and democracy. only an inclusive society is a humane society. in the european union, however, minorities are often denied their fundamental rights. for example, roma are still subject to racial discrimination, and it is outrageous to me that more than 70 years after the end of the shoah, anti-semitism is on the rise again in europe. i fully accept the definition of anti-semitism set out by the international holocaust remembrance alliance, which parliament adopted in 2017. similarly, people are discriminated against on the basis of their sexual orientation or gender identity and are denied full legal recognition. the implementation of the eu charter of fundamental rights is at the heart of eu policy, as the degree of humanity in a society is measured by the position of minorities within it.
mr president, let’s look around in europe. everywhere people go to the streets they are waving eu flags, be it in bucharest, be it in warsaw, be it in vienna or in berlin. they are waving eu flags because they are addressing us, because the rule of law and fundamental rights are under attack in many member states in the european union and they want to see action from our side. article 7 has proven to be a powerful tool but at the same time, in implementation, to be very impractical from time to time. that is why we need additional instruments in order to uphold the rule of law and fundamental rights of our citizens – for example, an expert group constantly monitoring developments when it comes to the state of the rule of law, to have constant debates about exactly that and if there are breaches, to have a sanction mechanism so that we can do something about that. the european parliament is the only directly elected institution of the european citizens and the fight for fundamental rights and the rule of law has to be at the core of this chamber. this is not a nationally bound fight and this is not a partisan fight. it is the fundament of democracy and european unity for all of us, so let’s do this together.
the next item is the debate on the report of lara comi, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the implementation of directive 2011/7/eu on combating late payment in commercial transactions (2018/2056 (ini)) (a8-0456/2018).
i note that many council presidencies have consistently failed to attend, and i do not think that is very good. i do not think it is a good thing, however, that this should be noted only in the case of one presidency and not in the case of all. that is why we should be putting the same level of effort into the work of our colleagues.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur. madam president, you have known me for some time, and you know that we have repeatedly - and i personally have - lamented the absence of the presidency of the council. that is why i think the point is overlooked. we did have a big problem in europe a few years ago. the delay in payment between northern and southern europe varies up to 180 days. this shows that we have particular regional difficulties, and these difficulties have been taken into account in particular in mrs comi's report. we have seen that with the amendment to the late payment directive, which we decided to adopt during the last parliamentary term, we have really achieved something: the number of late payments has decreased. but of course, late payment is always a problem, to some extent, which is seen in the context of economic development. and that is why we must make it clear again - and mrs comi's report makes it very clear - that small and mediumsized enterprises suffer particularly from late payment, and that is why the report's demands in this direction are really important. secondly, there must of course be exceptions to the strict rules for small and mediumsized enterprises, because if enterprises want to agree on something else, there must be room for that because the european union has freedom of contract. thirdly, we must also be careful not to create different systems of late payment for each sector, but to make it clear that, as with air passenger rights, late payment is not allowed in the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 17 january 2019. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs barbara kappel, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the annual report on the financial activities of the european investment bank (2018/2161 (ini)) (a8-0415/2018). i also welcome the president of the european investment bank, mr werner hoyer.
president of the european investment bank. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs kappel, and her colleagues for this excellent report. it's a great pleasure for me to be with you this evening. these debates play an important role in further reinforcing the working relationship between this house and the european investment bank (eib). many of the issues raised in the report are extremely relevant, and i very much appreciate the support you give to the eib in its role as a catalyst for investments that support growth and jobs, both within and outside the european union. as you rightly point out in your report, the eib is a very good deal for the eu. we put money to work. by the way, not so much taxpayers' money, but money we raise from investors on the capital markets. the financing scheme of the eib is unique. the member states own the eib, but they are not the principal source of funding. indeed, the member states, over 60 years now, have only paid directly eur 14 billion in cash to secure their equity share of the bank, plus eur 3.4 billion into the reserve. this has enabled us over the past 60 years to disperse more than eur 1.1 trillion, as the rapporteur just mentioned, mobilizing up to eur 3 trillion of overall investment. this is a very efficient use of eu resources all in support of eu policies that you in this parliament shape and that we follow. it's also thanks to you that we operate at an increasingly sustainable and innovative way from issuing sustainability awareness bonds and green bonds, to ambitious climate action targets in our lending. when we all praised the united nations for defining the sustainable development goals, we were all made aware of the fact that taxpayers' money will never be enough to enable us to reach these objectives. we need to crowd in the private sector. this is exactly what we in the eib are doing and for which we developed, for the first time ten years ago, green bonds. we're also now developing sustainability awareness bonds, and the first issuance on the market was very successful and encouraging. ladies and gentlemen, investment in the eu has recovered, but the recovery is still uneven across countries and sectors. we cannot afford to become complacent when it comes to closing the investment gap in europe just think of the areas of infrastructure or innovation where the eu is lagging behind. one key instrument to tackle this challenge is the juncker plan and the european fund for strategic investment (efsi). i thank you very much for your kind words and mr molterer for his work. ms kappel, in your report you take stock of the success of efsi. it is our joint success, and it was the right decision by this parliament to extend the programme to the end of 2020, with an increased target of mobilising eur 500 billion. it has been a remarkable decision of this parliament and council to, so to speak, sacrifice eur 16 billion of the eu budget in order to shift money from subsidies and grants into a guarantee scheme. this exercise, which, at first glance, would not seem very popular for a parliamentarian, has been a success. i thank you for that courageous decision. efsi has already had a concrete impact. as of december 2018, it has supported over 850 000 smes across the eu and is expected to trigger over eur 371.2 billion of additional investment. it is a great example of what the eib can do to help scarce public resources achieve more. it reflects a paradigm shift from grants and subsidies to loans and guarantees and has become a very strong element of europe's public policy tool kit. i fully share the view that we should retain the key success factors from efsi and learn the lessons when designing the future investeu programme. we are in very good contact discussions with the commission on this in order to translate what has worked with efsi into the new regulation on investeu and efsi has worked. in this regard, i very much welcome parliament's position on investeu, which was voted on earlier, that indeed reflects the successful efsi model. we very much appreciate that parliament has called for the eib group to have a dedicated share of 75% of investeu in the legal text. we also welcome the fact that the report proposes changes that will deliver a higher impact, ensure efficient management and support national commercial banks to benefit from investeu. let me briefly turn to our role as the eu's external financial arm. for over 55 years, the eib has supported the eu's external and development policies in a very wide range of countries, at minimal cost to the eu budget. the eib is a global leader in crowding in private sector finance and delivering innovative financing solutions for the public and private sectors. through our involvement in projects both inside and outside the eu, the eib has sectoral expertise across all regions and project types that it can deploy globally. as the external arm of eu investment, we are very active across all parts of the globe. for example, with the aim of improving livelihoods and creating local jobs, we finance smes and microenterprises with limited access to finance in africa, with particular focus on youth and african women. at the same time, we finance climate action projects in asia and latin america and support eu diplomacy. we are supporting eu policy very closely in the neighbourhood, where we stand ready to respond to urgent eu priority needs, as was the case, for example, with the ukraine package. moreover, through the economic resilience initiative for the western balkans and the southern neighbourhood, we have stepped up our support to countries affected by migration, whether host countries, countries of transit or countries of origin. there are many inefficiencies within europe's development finance architecture, and there is growing demand among european bilateral development agencies for greater coordination, new financial instruments and innovative banking solutions. while grants will continue to play an important role, there is widespread recognition that financial instruments to mobilise investment must grow in importance. the eib stands ready to facilitate and coordinate eu external investments for our policy makers. the challenges facing eu foreign and development policy are substantial, with uncertainties surrounding us global leadership, china playing a bigger role internationally, and this might be the most important fact with threats to the very concept of multilateralism. europe is called upon to show leadership and tackle global issues. for this, we need a strong financing arm, and for this, we need a strong eib. i am therefore very pleased to see the emphasis in your report on keeping the central role of the eib firmly reflected in the post-2020 architecture for financing outside the union. i am confident that we can translate what we have now learned from efsi for investeu into the new regulation about our activities outside the european union. these negotiations are going on at this moment. thank you, ms. kappel, for raising the issue of transparency, accountability and tax compliance. i fully agree with you that we cannot become complacent in that respect. on transparency, we are already second to none compared with other international financial institutions, and we intend to keep it this way. i would also welcome the european union and its member states using the same criteria and standards for the lending activities of other multilateral financial institutions which they use for the eib. we are publishing more and more information about our activities and the impact that we have on the daily lives of citizens. on curbing tax avoidance, let me assure you that we are putting a lot of effort and time into this and are fully behind the eu's push to mitigate these practices. we of course apply the eu black list and remain extremely vigilant that our money is not misused. let me finally update you on one issue that will unfortunately keep us all busy for some time, as yesterday's events have yet again illustrated, namely the impact of the uk leaving the eu. when, in my view very unfortunately, the uk leaves the eu, it consequently ceases to be a member of this bank, which has a number of implications both institutionally and financially. in this context, i would like to express my gratitude for the swift adoption by the parliament of its positive opinion on amending the statute and governance of the eib due to the uk's withdrawal from the eu. the uk's departure means that the eib's capital will be reduced by approximately eur 40 billion, of course most of it in the form of callable capital, because the member states paid in so little in cash. this would translate into a roughly eur 100 billion reduction in our maximum lending space. i do not need to tell you that such a scenario is in no one's interest. as a sign of confidence in the eib, the board of directors, representing all member states, has agreed on measures to sustain and strengthen the bank's capital base after brexit. the eu 27 members have agreed to replace the uk's share in paid-in capital using the bank's reserves and to increase their callable capital. some member states have even volunteered to contribute paid-in capital to increase their role in the bank. we are therefore confident that we will conclude an agreement on capital replacement before the uk leaves the eu, and, most importantly, preserve the eib's ability to achieve eu policy objectives. we will all lose in the context of brexit, but i think parliament and the council and the commission are doing what is necessary to reduce the damage to a minimum. thank you very much for your attention. i am very much looking forward to the debate.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to welcome the report and thank especially parliament and in particular the rapporteur ms barbara kappel, for its very relevant input. we welcome the importance that parliament rightly attaches to monitoring the european investment bank as a key player in delivering our european political priorities. our bank is an indispensable partner for implementing eu policies inside and outside the borders of the union. our bank has also proven its ability to reshape significantly its activities. the successful implementation of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) illustrates perfectly this capacity to seize new opportunities and redefine its business models to address investment gaps that still affect the eu today, especially in sectors like innovation and infrastructure. the strategic positioning of the bank on key sectors was at the heart of a discussion that took place in 2018 in light of the expected departure of one of the major shareholders of the bank, the united kingdom. i particularly welcome the recent agreement in principle found by the member states on the capital aspects after the uk’s withdrawal, as well as the reforms of the cabinet. this package demonstrates the shareholders’ strong commitment to the eib, which is key to ensuring that the bank retains its triple a rating and to preserving the sustainability of its lending volume. in the context of the negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework (mff), i would like to recall that the eib will remain a key implementing partner for the eu. under the investeu fund, the commission and the eib group have proposed to establish a partnership to support programme implementation and ensure consistency, inclusivity and efficiency. under this proposal, a 75% share of the eu guarantee for the eib would be enshrined in the regulation. moreover, the eib group’s banking expertise will be pressed into use to design, implement, monitor and report on the investeu programme. the commission proposal on the post 2020 neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument will bring together existing and new programmes currently serving the eu’s external policies. the commission has proposed that the new instrument should be deployed through an open architecture using all available expertise from the eib, international financial institutions, as well as national and regional development actors. with decades of experience, the bank will remain a major partner for the eu for external lending activities in the next mff. currently the commission is holding discussions with the eib and other financial institutions in order to find a common approach that could provide the eib with basic operational predictability post 2020. let me conclude by speaking of two particular relevant issues highlighted in your report. firstly, climate change. the commission fully supports the ambitious climate action strategy of the european investment bank, matching the commitments of the paris agreement. increased investment in renewable energy and the energy efficiency sector is key to achieving this objective. secondly, tax compliance. the eu has achieved unprecedented progress in fighting tax avoidance in the course of the last two years. this includes new requirements against tax avoidance in eu legislation, governing in particular financing and investment operations. as a follow-up action, the commission has been working closely with the eib and other implementing partners on adapting the current compliance procedures of this new environment. we also adopted a communication in march 2018 to facilitate the implementation of these new requirements. i welcome the collaboration of the eib and commission services in reflecting recent developments at the eu and international levels in the procedures of the bank. the commission will continue to monitor closely this important file and we look forward to the eib’s proposal for the revision of its relevant policies. madam president, i want to thank once more the rapporteur and everybody who has participated in this work for a very accurate, very deep analysis of the situation.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would first like to thank mrs kappel. she did a good job. mr. hoyer, you shouldn't be surprised that the room is so empty. the group meetings are currently taking place in all the major groups to prepare for the vote tomorrow. you can also rest assured that only three more colleagues were present than he spoke at the ecb president's annual report yesterday. that is why i say that the report is good. the european investment bank is a very important institution. you've described the benefits. mrs kappel has taken up the main points. the epp will support this report. we have also made our main points clear in our discussions with the rapporteur. that's a good thing. i think that to emphasise that the eib is the only international bank that is wholly owned by eu member states and fully aligned with eu policies and standards is a huge advantage. if we had the brexit decision yesterday, i might make a comment: i personally do not believe in brexit, it will be prevented but it is good that the eib has moved forward in the equity provisioning. your focus on smes, sustainability, the fact that you're making loans instead of grants, that you're bigger in balance sheet size than the world bank, these are all things that would have actually called for the annual report to be discussed in a larger parliamentary public. i am afraid that is not the case, and i hope that at least tomorrow there will be more support than in the committee responsible. the report is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. this is not a statement by parliament in favour of active support for the eib.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it's not that easy. we're glad you're here. i will try not to skip the subject. we know what we have on you. they have made significant progress in the governance of the bank. we are grateful for this, but we have a few suggestions to add to what we lack. i would like to remind you of the utmost transparency and accountability in the eib's activities, especially towards us. i shall then try to find an appropriate time for the eib to be consulted in the committee. i believe we can do even better in terms of transparency, both at the board level and at the operational level. we believe that the eib's accountability too often consists of glossy brochures. we would like to see it a little more specific and also a little more detailed. so you are welcome to ask us what your administrative costs are and how much each operation costs. we are also happy to have a follow-up report on the projects financed by the eib after seven years. i'd be very excited if we had that. it would also be good if we knew how much private money is being raised in eib projects, because we have the impression that public banks very often only raise public money. that's why there's room up here. i would also like to ask the bank to do more in promoting women. it's nice to be surrounded by seven men, but you might suspect a woman. thank you. i'm glad you came.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking all the members who have worked so hard on behalf of the commission, the rapporteurs, mrs gardiazabal rubial and mr sarvamaa, and also you, mrs sargentini, for your very, very knowledgeable and thorough and good treatment of our proposal, which you accept in principle but want to improve further. for that, my thanks and respect. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the union budget in the event of generalised deficiencies as regards the rule of law is designed to provide, for the next budgetary framework and thus for future budgetary policy, an instrument to protect europe and its budget and thus our citizens and taxpayers as much as possible from abuse, corruption, deficiencies, fraud and dishonesty. a strong support from parliament is crucial for further discussions with the council. we should have had the instrument a long time ago. the fact that we are proposing it now is a purely logical course of action. because if in our budget programmes, where we support projects, where we process and approve applications, where we provide money, there is a dispute with partners, with beneficiaries, with member states, regions, municipalities and the dispute can also lead to court proceedings, we must be able to rely in each member state on the independence of the courts, that they are bound by the rule of law, that they are free to give their opinion, that the rule of law applies unrestrictedly everywhere. member states must already demonstrate that their rules and procedures for using eu funds are effective and that there is sufficient protection against abuse or fraud. we are strengthening our instruments with this proposal, we are increasing our authority as the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the budget. the focus on protecting the eu's financial interests is important to me. i believe that the current definition of the scope of our proposal strikes a sensible balance between protecting the union budget and other existing eu mechanisms such as article 7 of our treaty. it is not a question of sanctions, it is a question of protecting european funds and, therefore, of the efficiency and correctness of budgetary implementation at european level. we propose a transparent and objective mechanism. any measures adopted under this new procedure must always be proportionate to the nature and gravity of the rule of law deficiency. that is to say, the reduction or elimination of funds must always be in relation to the abuse, the shortfall in the rule of law. very important it was mentioned : the citizen, the beneficiary, the student, the researcher, the promoter of social projects must not be the fool. the citizens and the project should therefore be able to understand what the project and the citizens can expect. the burden is shared by the member states and not at the expense of our civil society, our students, our scientists, our beneficiaries as a whole. if the commission has reason to believe that there is a rule of law deficit and that the financial interests of the european union and its citizens may be affected, we will initiate a procedure which may lead to the adoption of appropriate remedies. we must take account of the decisions of the court of justice, the reports of the court of auditors and the conclusions of the relevant expert bodies. before we take a decision, we will and must consult the member state concerned, giving it the opportunity to make a full statement. and the fact that parliament wants to be involved here, on an equal footing with the council, to be involved in the decisionmaking process, i think is more than obvious, i think it is consistent, and i support that. the decision-making process must nevertheless be prompt, swift and efficient, based on the rule of law and non-bureaucratic. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but i am saying that it should be involved in the matter. at this stage, after the exchange with the council and parliament on the report to be discussed here today, we should discuss in depth the following issues for the forthcoming discussions between the council and parliament: the relationship between the shortcomings and the protection of the financial interests of the union. the distinction between this proposal and the instrument and other mechanisms, for example article 7 of our treaty, remains clear and must be clear. there must be no grey area between different instruments and options. we have sought the expert advice of our legal services and will continue to ensure that the whole thing is really crystal clear about which instrument can be used in which case. in the council, some member states are calling for the list of possible shortcomings to be specified, extended or even made comprehensive and therefore exhaustive. this would create legal certainty. i believe this to be true. we're ready to expand the list. but it must remain open to allow the mechanism to be used in unforeseeable cases and thus give europe every opportunity to respond to any situation that may arise in the future. an indicative time limit within which the commission must act after receiving a reply from the member state concerned, i.e. a reasonable and limited period of time, is discussed. we think this is obvious, but i think it is important to be thorough before being quick. in complex cases it is more important to me that the commission can carry out a full investigation, and for that reason the time limit should not be too short, but should only begin after the member state has been consulted and has given its opinion. they want to see the sources of information on which the commission bases its work clarified. i think that is also quite obvious. the list of case-law to which the commission may refer and the sources of information which we shall use can be made more precise and concrete along your lines, as requested by parliament. the question of how to further strengthen the protection of the final beneficiary is also worth discussing in my view. the rule of law mechanism you are discussing today, which is in good hands with you, is an important building block of our commission proposal for the next multiannual financial framework 2021-2027. it is intended to make and will make, if you agree, an important contribution to the efficiency and regularity of budgetary management and thus to the protection of taxpayers' money and thus of citizens and taxpayers. we are filling a gap in european law. i would ask you to make the best of the gap and, in the course of our discussions this year, to ensure that a decision is taken which can provide an important supplementary basis for the budgetary management of the future and of the next decade. thank you for your dedicated and knowledgeable cooperation!
draft opinion of the consultative committee on constitutional affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals. on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, i would like to stress the importance of protecting the eu budget from general deficiencies in the implementation of the rule of law in a member state. yes, there is a link between this and the implementation of the budget in accordance with the principles of sound financial management. the independence and impartiality of the judiciary are essential to ensure respect for the rule of law. the commission's proposal is that the member states should be required to cooperate in this area, regardless of the actual implementation of the measures, and in the interests of financial solidarity between the member states. we want the commission to ensure that the legitimate interests of the final beneficiaries of the programme or fund, who may be affected by the measures taken, are fully safeguarded. we therefore want to oblige the commission to carry out an evaluation of the impact of proposed measures on the national budgets. and last but not least, we believe that the role of the european parliament must be strengthened, to involve itself more in the actual evaluation of the procedure, beyond the rights of information. the whole process must be transparent and respect the principle of proportionality.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. that is eight narrow items that have been put forward. but i have high hopes for these eight narrow articles because it is the first regulation to tackle fundamental rule of law deficiencies in the authorities of the member states. i welcome the commission's proposal and thank the honourable member for the report. the regulation is aimed at the eu's greatest weakness, namely member states with corrupt structures. we are witnessing a new development in some member states, namely state corruption. we see government officials using their influence as heads of government to obtain eu funds for themselves or their friends and relatives, and then preventing investigations into this. the regulation should provide solutions in this case. the procedure under article 7 would not solve such problems, because that article establishes a general judicial procedure. but we are dealing with selective failure by a few who are filling their own pockets and silencing the police and the judiciary. that is why, commissioner, a long-cherished wish of budgetary control is being fulfilled tonight, namely that something happens when we have fraud and money laundering with eu funds and we have member states not acting because the perpetrators are prominent. that's what it's all about, and there's nothing to gloss over. this regulation does not solve all the problems, but it will help, provided the commission finds a way to bring this regulation to life. tax fraud does not belong here, it is an individual offence, so it would be nice if we could vote on it together tomorrow. it weakens the regulation, it does not strengthen it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. why are we talking about the rule of law again today? because this is a subject that moves people in europe. i am often asked by citizens in my region: why is the eu not doing anything? why are there governments that are happy to accept subsidies but on the other hand do not play by the rules and ignore democratic values? however, a functioning rule of law is essential if eu funds are to be used properly. if it doesn't work, then the risk of abuse and fraud increases. so it's important that we get this instrument on the road today. but it is not the recipients of funds, not the students or farmers who should be hit here and suffer from the misconduct of their governments, but the national governments themselves. we social democrats are also calling for sanctions against countries which take advantage of unfair tax competition or tax fraud models, because these taxes are missing in other countries, in hospitals and schools worth billions. if we want to be a european family, we can only do so if we protect our democratic values and work together, not against each other.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. to bring a strong programme of 'rights and values' into the european union here means, of course, putting it into practice in all the member states. i would like to give you a recent example. horst mahler, 83, was sentenced to 12 years in prison for a speech he made, which he has been serving since 2009. in 2015, his left foot was amputated while in custody. now in november, the other leg was amputated to the thigh. he then spent his rehabilitation in a clinic in brandenburg until january 10 of this year. there he suffered from sleep deprivation because the night watchman left the door to the patient's room open, robbing him of sleep. his complaint led to - and this is the current thing that shocks me - that the head of the correctional facility then allowed the post to close the door, but ordered to handcuff the patient with both legs mutilated to the bed, if the caretaker has to leave his post, for example, to go to the toilet, to eat. i don't understand that as "rights and values". (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. they're not saying anything. it's not an isolated case in germany. a 90-year-old woman, mrs ursula haverbeck, was also imprisoned for expressing her opinion. in total, more than 1 000 patriots are in prison in germany for freedom of expression. the media doesn't talk about it. we have a situation similar to that in greece, where even members of a party are arrested, even though it is represented in the national parliament. i think that in all of europe we should stop doing things like this.
mr president, i very much support this proposal because i believe that there is a need to raise awareness of european values. i know from my own experience in the czech republic that the emphasis on education, on awareness of the european union among young people, is a particularly important thing. many young people simply do not know what the european union is all about and, influenced by various disinformation campaigns, do not see the european union as a free voluntary association of countries that share the values of freedom, democracy and human rights. and that's the part of the program that i subjectively consider to be extremely important. i travel to schools as part of my work and i must say that i am sometimes very sad to see the ignorance of some young people about what the european union entails. so i welcome the increase in funding for this programme and i consider this proposal to be extremely important and beneficial.
member of the commission. – mr president, this debate has shown the importance that you place on the promotion of rights and values, and the support for the future rights and values programmes proposed by the commission. it was a very interesting debate, also at that moment when we heard different interpretations of the word equality. i will confess to you about one moment in my history in this position as commissioner responsible for fundamental rights in europe. when i came to the commission i heard that we have to promote equality. i lived half my life under a regime which imposed equality. equality in the sense that ms šojdrová spoke about – in the sense of uniformity. i lived in a society where we didn’t see people in wheelchairs. i lived in a society where i don’t remember seeing mentally handicapped people. they were hidden. they were hidden somewhere so that they were not seen because they were not equal, ideal, socialist people. that’s why i had to clarify for myself and with my colleagues that we speak about equality before the law. we speak about the principle that we all have the same rights and obligations and that we also have a duty to protect the weak ones in the sense of fighting against any kind of discrimination. at the same time i find it very important that we are promoting diversity, plurality, dialogue and active citizens. what i mean by dialogue – you know that i’m also responsible for the gender equality agenda, i fight for the ratification of the istanbul convention, and there is a very strong rejection from the side of the churches – i invited the churches for a dialogue. i wanted to hear their arguments. i think that this is also our duty, to listen to other opinions and i don’t see anyone here who would like to use this funding for silencing somebody who has a different opinion. yes, we have some limits on the freedom of speech. you might say we are silencing some people. yes, i will always fight for silencing people who call for violence and the killing of people, especially where it is obvious and very well seen, i.e. on the internet and social media. that’s why we are pushing for digital companies to delete hate speech which contains this definition, that is to say hate speech which has the potential to incite violence in real life, that they delete it from the networks. i will never defend the freedom of expression of people who call for killing, and we have started to relativise these things, and this is dangerous. that’s why we need to promote civil society and dialogue so that the people themselves define what’s still okay and what should not be tolerated. it should not be the politicians only who define these things. we need active society. that’s why i am glad that we have this programme, which i believe will be used as a smart funding programme to promote reasonable good projects to help society to increase tolerance and common understanding – diversity, plurality, dialogue and so on – and i am afraid that we will also have to find other ways of helping society to flourish and democracy to develop as a dialogue of people. i mentioned the it sphere. the internet is also a fantastic instrument for developing democracy and dialogue. i will always be for promoting technologies for the benefit of society, but as we all know this is the sphere which is also abused for fuelling hatred, for increasing intolerance, for attacks against people. at the end of january i will get a report from it companies which will inform me about something which i call a ‘map of hatred in the eu’. on the list there is the menu of usual suspects. there are minorities. there are, yes, also the churches, the religious people who openly express their religious views, including christians. there are gays and lesbians, there are journalists, there are politicians, in some countries there are judges, and i think that this is also one of the reasons why we have every day to think about names like jo cox, pavel adamovich, daphne caruana galizia and ján kuciak. how many others will become victims of this increased hatred? i am afraid that if we do not stop it this will go further. so how to face this new situation? we spoke about funding. i am convinced that if we manage to promote the idea of a digital tax, we should use part of this money for education – not propaganda but education – objective informing about our history, for working with the young generation so that they are able to apply critical thinking to be able to work with the information. i am sure that if we are promoting the technologies on one side we have to use the benefit of it and maybe the future possible own source of the eu, which might be a digital tax, for better education and for better developing the values which we speak about. i think that this is the way we will have to go anyway. (applause)
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also like to say that in case what we are discussing here is interesting in lithuania - and i take this as a starting point - i would like to welcome the citizens of lithuania, especially the citizens of the town of visaginas. in my visits to lithuania visaginas and the ignalina nuclear power plant , which i have made repeatedly over the last 15 years, i have become aware of the difficult decision to agree to the european union's recommendation to close down the nuclear power plant in the accession negotiations between lithuania and the european union. i would also like to say that i still consider this decision to be absolutely correct and reasonable, because the safety deficiencies inherent in these soviet rbmk reactors - the graphite-moderated reactors - were not easily controlled other than by shutting them down. as right as this decision to close down was for me, it was also right that the decision to close down prematurely, which was set in motion by pressure from brussels, was linked to the european union's commitment not to shift the burden of the decommissioning on lithuania on the small country of lithuania which, under pressure from moscow, built these largest rbmk reactors ever built on its then so the lithuanians say occupied territory. today we are talking about the reliability of the european union's promise to help with the burdens of reconstruction. i am very pleased that the majority of the european parliament has agreed to my proposal not to keep the amount originally proposed for the next mff, the next seven-year budget of the european union, at the proposed level but to increase it to eur 780 million. the aim of this financing is to ensure that the dismantling of unit 1 and unit 2 of the two reactors can start in 2026 and 2027 respectively. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources allocated to the structural funds are used to finance the necessary measures. the management of the dismantling is in very good hands in ignalina, in my opinion, as i have visited the plant regularly. the conditions for dealing responsibly with the risks of this reduction, but also for dealing responsibly and transparently with the finances, are, in my view, really in place. lithuania has now voted in a referendum to give up all nuclear energy. we should be clear about that too. i believe that we must not only recognise this, but i believe that the decisions we are taking today on ignalina and its dismantling must be combined with a consistent commitment to oppose the construction of the new nuclear power plant in ostrovet on the territory of belarus. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe. it's almost done. the european stress test carried out for ostrowets has revealed risks which we do not know how we will manage. for example, retrofitting a plant that is said not to be designed for the earthquake risks in the region is hardly conceivable. so in connection with the decision on the reliability of the financing of the dismantling, i also call for reliability in defending lithuania's security interests against nuclear risks to belarus.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me thank the rapporteur, ms harms, for her introductory remarks and the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) for its report, which was adopted on 21 november 2018. the commission is grateful for the debate today and welcomes the vote on the other decommissioning report which took place earlier today. let me say a few words on the most important points. the safety of european citizens is of the utmost importance to us all, and the contributions of the members of this parliament show your attachment to this principle. it requires the application of the highest safety standards, of transparency on risks and costs, and of the immediate decommissioning of nuclear liabilities so as not to transfer this burden to the next generations. the ignalina programme is contributing to a substantial decrease in the level of radiological hazard and risk to the general public, as the nuclear fuel is now being transferred out of the reactor and the cooling pools into a safe dry storage facility. remarkable progress has been achieved in the dismantling of huge installations and the processing of radioactive waste. this would not have been possible without longstanding financial support from the european union that started already in 2001, and in the pre—accession stage in lithuania. at that time, the european union required lithuania to close its only nuclear power plant – a bigger version of the chernobyl model – and made a commitment to provide financial assistance to mitigate the consequences. funding the decommissioning of ignalina is a matter of solidarity with lithuania, and the commission is strongly attached to this principle. by the end of 2020, the union will have provided nearly eur 1.9 billion of financial assistance, and the commission proposal provides for the continuation of appropriate support in the future. based on the ignalina detailed decommissioning plan, the commission proposal makes it possible to start dismantling the nuclear reactor core element. more importantly, and in line with recommendations made by the court of auditors, it sets a maximum level of eu co—financing, which will remove uncertainties and increase ownership of the project by the beneficiary. this project is a first—of—a—kind endeavour on an unprecedented scale and will require the involvement of the best and brightest nuclear specialists. this is reflected by the higher priority given to the financing of those activities. it will generate highly relevant experience and know—how that can be of benefit to other projects in the union and will result in increased levels of safety within the eu. it is in sharing what we know and showing solidarity that the union brings the highest added value to its citizens.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur. we have fought hard in the committee on industry, research and energy for the funding, and we have finally reached an agreement by 61 votes to 2. but lithuania needs our help, that's clear. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted. the commissioner has just said that 1.9 billion has already been spent. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so it's a project of over five to six billion euros that the eu has to shoulder. we have agreed that we want to help lithuania, of course on economically acceptable terms. but, commissioner, i must reprimand the commission. the commission has proposed 552 million for the same programme, lithuania has requested 780 million. we have finally agreed on the lithuanian value because the commission officials were unable to provide a reasonable estimate of the actual cost. i shall stick to this debate because in the end the rapporteur and i, as shadow rapporteur, negotiated with commissioner oettinger and the lithuanian minister for energy, and a compromise was to be worked out before parliament voted on it. it's not available yet. and that is why we will support the harms report, but the questions remain open.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the budget control committee has visited all three nuclear power plants and dealt with the dismantling, most recently ignalina in june 2018 i was there twice. i understand that all colleagues from the countries concerned are very interested in further funds for the reconstruction. the commission has made itself extremely simple on this issue, and the itre committee has joined in the extreme simplicity. i don't like this. in 2009, there was an international feasibility study for alternatives to decommissioning after the fuel rods were removed from the reactor. two international companies won this prize. in 2010, this tender was cancelled under pressure from the lithuanian authorities and with the commission's approval and handed over to ignalina inpp as an in-house work and thus it was over. all i can say is that ignalina will remain a nuclear site for decades, for centuries. it is a matter of urgency that alternatives should have been explored, instead of producing a green lawn for a lot of money, which is of no use to anyone afterwards.
the rapporteur. the commission is not perhaps a short sentence to my colleague mrs. grossle: the safe inclusion of nuclear power stations in decommissioning can be an alternative to the objective of restoring the green grass as soon as possible. but i would advise against proposing, for other countries, the method of shifting on the timetable, so to speak, if rapid decommissioning and green meadows are being propagated everywhere in germany. i think there are really good reasons for the dismantling in lithuania. i would like to give the commissioner a start. it is indeed as mr langen has said: there has now been an arbitrary change of strategy on the part of the commission in the current debate as regards financing. it has become very clear to me during my visits to lithuania that this is also a matter of genuine reliability, of trust between lithuania and the european commission. i am making this appeal not only to you but also to the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thank you for your attention, and thank you again to all the shadow reporters.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. - mr president, i have to say that i am very pleased. you're saying, "all animals are equal, but some animals are more equal". they point to the fact that there are large member states and small member states. but would you agree that with 27, 28 states, we cannot always wait until everyone is willing or able to do something? would you agree that it must be possible for some countries to go ahead, as has already happened, and that the door is open to all? so all animals are the same, but some animals are faster than others, and some are slower. that's the situation.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. citizens expect decisions and above all laws to be comprehensible and understandable, that is, the whole decision-making process to be transparent. that is what they expect from us in the national states at home, and they expect it all the more from the european union, because brussels is inevitably becoming more and more distant from the people. that is why we need more transparency at european level than perhaps at national level. we have the situation that this parliament is an open house. everything we do can be traced. our meetings are streamed on the web, our committee meetings are open, our preparatory meetings are open. so we are one of the most transparent parliaments in the world, and we can be proud of that. this is not the case with the other legislative body, the council of ministers of the 28 member states. the council of ministers is still a black box, with much happening behind closed doors. it has improved somewhat, but it is far from the standard we are demanding. and we must demand that the second chamber, the council of ministers, also be fully transparent, not only in the voting on laws, but - and this is the point - also in the 150 preparatory groups that exist there. they're completely opaque. it was a grateful task for the ombudsman to look into this matter and she has produced a report to which we refer. we in parliament also call for full transparency in the second legislative body, the council of ministers. i would like to ask the commissioner to make his comments public. this goes hand in hand with another practice: the classification of documents. most council documents are marked 'limité', i.e. limited, whereas in brussels nothing is limited. we know that every document is going to be released to the public somewhere, so it is a rather old-fashioned construction. and the council of ministers should be much more careful in sorting out what really needs to be kept secret and what is not secret at all but is also communicated to the public. the council of ministers must also be transparent because ministers often come from their national capitals, decide something in brussels and then say something else at home. and they can do that because no one can understand how they voted. it is also very difficult for us members and for our colleagues in the national parliaments to say how the national government voted. they can tell all kinds of stories that you can believe or not. and that is why i believe that transparency in the council of ministers is also a means of countering conspiracy theories and allegations. we have so many populists and so many nationalists who like to put stories out into the world. i think it is time to set a good example of transparency and really set an example of good governance for the member states themselves and for others in the world. i therefore thank my colleague mrs toom and all those who have worked to get this report voted on here today. i hope that we will have a large majority in the plenary at noon.
a writer. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that you, including those in azerbaijan who may be following this debate, will also be able to take part in it. i read yesterday in the azeri daily an article in which i and the colleagues who worked on this resolution were accused of being involved in a large-scale plot to stage a coup against the government of azerbaijan. i recommend that the journalists of this newspaper talk to us before they write something like this. and i would also recommend, for example, that my colleagues from azerbaijan in the euronest parliamentary assembly should talk to me. i tried to do that before we put this resolution to the vote. i'm afraid i was unsuccessful. my former colleague on the euronest board, fuad muradov, is now a minister in the government of azerbaijan, and he knows very well that my concern in working for euronest has always been to ensure good relations, reliable relations, especially between us members of parliament. why have we really put this urgency on the agenda? we are concerned about the fate of mehman huseynov. mehman huseynov has been on hunger strike since december last year, because he is threatened with being re-indicted before the end of his two-year sentence and now fears being sentenced to another five to seven years before the end of his first sentence. this is not a one-off situation, but the civil society forum at euronest has informed us that this pattern is now being repeated for the fifth time. and this, and our concern for mehman huseynov's welfare, has led us to put this urgency on the agenda. we call on all the groups in this house to call on the azerbaijani government to release mehman huseynov. we appeal to the judges not to re-open such a staged trial against him. mehman has done well in exposing corruption in the council of europe. that's why he's in prison now. and he has just dealt not only with problems in azerbaijan, but also with problems of corrupt politicians in germany and italy, for example. it is also right that the european parliament should now call for his unconditional release.
author. – madam president, we had a very good negotiation on this resolution among colleagues from all the groups who signed all together the resolution but i have to present to you two oral amendments which are technical amendments, but we want this resolution to be correct. i was expecting to get the floor for point b and point c of our resolution but i can present, if you agree, both technical amendments now. i would like you to agree with the following changes to point b of the resolution: mehman huseynov, who is due to be released in march 2019, has been facing a possible additional five to seven year prison sentence on charges, not under the article 315(2) but only under the article 317(2). this is my first oral amendment and i would like you to support it. my second oral amendment concerns the visit of the eeas delegation to the prison where mehman huseynov is. this visit took place, not on 10 january, but on 11 january and after the commissioner said in the debate that, according to eeas, mehman huseynov has finished his hunger strike, the hunger strike being one of the reasons for our debate and resolution, i must say here also that family and lawyers cannot confirm that he has finished his hunger strike. thank you for your attention and i ask you to support the technical changes.
rapporteur. – madam president, i didn’t ask for the floor. but of course it has to be referred back to the interinstitutional negotiations.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the protection of rice grown in the eu by czesław adam siekierski, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development (o000128/2018 b8-0004/2019) (2018/2957 ((rsp)).
mr president, i try to keep the meeting as short as possible. yes, i do compromise from time to time. but if the groups and the conference of presidents had thought it right to allow this debate more time, they would have done so. we have a certain time frame that is provided. the time allocated to the groups was allocated. it is also a question of collegiality, that you can adjust to how many minutes you talk and how many minutes you get. it is not possible either that members have three minutes to speak, then prepare for eight minutes and i am still strict, or that they prepare for three minutes and i let it run for ten minutes. and then there are always those who, if they are not interrupted, will still be talking in the morning. there are people like that. but we certainly cannot debate that. you can talk to me about it later.
i'm not strict either. i'm just trying to keep things fairly even, and you were free to quit earlier. however, mr jakovčić has come forward. i would like to ask mr jakovčić a question. (andré elissen agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
i would like to thank you for your kind words. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. it's just not right. it is also my constant practice not to give colleagues who have been deprived of the floor for having exceeded their speaking time the opportunity to have more speaking time by means of a blue card.
member of the commission. – mr president, i welcome this debate, even if it comes a little bit late. some of you have asked the commission to start an investigation to see whether there is a surge in imports of rice from cambodia and myanmar. well, we have done that, and we have stated that yes indeed, there is a surge in imports and yes indeed there has been damage to the european rice industry, and that is why we have decided to activate the safeguards, and there will be a reinstallation of these tariffs. we have listened to the european parliament. the ‘everything but arms’ scheme gives tariff-free access to the eu market for some of the poorest countries in the world, apart from arms and ammunition. this has been an important driver for many countries in their economies, including cambodia and myanmar, and their economic growth over the last years. but there are safeguards in-built here and there are conditions. we think that the measures that we now have decided upon represent the right balance between defending our interests, but we are also saying that we still have a commitment to help the poorest countries through trade. the human rights issue that many of you raised has a parallel track to this. this is not to punish the two countries for breaching human rights. there are indeed severe concerns on human rights, both in myanmar and cambodia and we are looking at this. the commission has initiated the procedure for possible withdrawal of these preferences in cambodia, and we have notified myanmar that it might happen there as well. but that is an investigation and that is a procedure that has a separate track, and i’ll be happy to report upon that development to the european parliament.
the debate is closed.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. i wish everyone a safe journey home and thank the services for their work this week.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, as chair of the committee on international trade, i want to request the postponement of the debate on the state of the us-eu trade negotiations. just a few days ago the commissioner presented a draft mandate for negotiation and just today the implementation of the trade relations was published. so the committee on international trade thinks that we should have more time to have a profound and critical discussion about these documents and present a resolution to the plenary to have a position of the parliament. the committee on international trade is preparing a resolution and, therefore, we would like to postpone the debate with the commission statement and the winding-up resolution until the march i plenary.
mr president, the thing is that the council has the commission’s draft for the negotiation mandate with the us right now on the table, so if this parliament wants to have any say at all about what’s being negotiated then we have to make our position clear now. we cannot wait for later. later on we will not play any role, we will not have any say, and then we will again be totally out of the procedure. i am very astonished because the s&d group has so far always fought very hard for the formal involvement of the european parliament, so i’m very astonished by this proposal and i would like to ask colleagues to reject the postponement proposal and let’s rather talk about what our position is, what our demands are for the mandate, for the negotiation, and let’s make sure that parliament’s voice will be heard in this.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, just to clarify, our proposal is to have a fully fledged debate on the corbett report. for us, whether we have it now or in february is not the point; we don’t need to postpone it. what we want to do is debate it, because parliament should have a proper debate about what rules of procedure we’re going to use for forming the groups. that is a matter of concern for all the groups. it is a serious matter. so we should have a proper debate about that and know what we are going to vote about rather than just doing it in a couple of minutes. the whole report has really serious implications: on the formation of a group, the question of what sort of lobbyism would be allowed and whether we have learned from the me too movement. this concerns really a lot of things so we should have a proper debate; that’s our point of view. we can have a proper debate now, no problem, we don’t have to do it in february. we can do it in february but now the question is simply, do we have a debate? that’s our request: to have a full debate.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, then i would like to request that we have a full debate on the corbett report in this plenary session.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, two weeks ago, i recall the steps already taken on the council side following the european council endorsement of the agreement on the withdrawal of the uk from the eu and euratom and approval of the political declaration setting out the framework for the future relationship between the eu and the uk last november. this was just after having learned the outcome of the meaningful vote in westminster, an outcome we cannot but regret. we were all hoping that at least this would have been a wake-up call, leading the uk government and the british parliament to come out with a clear sense of direction and timing. from what i understand from yesterday’s vote, this is not the case and we face more rather than less uncertainty. what are the alternative arrangements? prime minister may has now been instructed to negotiate with the eu. how can we reconcile the intention to discuss alternative arrangements with the clear eu position that the withdrawal agreement is the best possible compromise text achieved in the negotiations? i don’t want to speculate on how the various options on the table will unfold, but this is clear that this state of affairs makes a disorderly exit of the uk more likely still and its consequences more serious for all of us, but in particular for the uk. economic operators are increasingly vocal about the impact of this uncertainty, in terms not only of direction but also of timing on their activities, investment and, therefore, jobs. it is also clear that this uncertainty and the tensions it leads to at sectoral and national level will further test our unity and resolve. it is, therefore, all the more necessary on the one hand to resist the temptation of bilateral deals and, on the other, to reflect our common purpose in the swift adoption of the necessary contingency measures. the responsibility for ensuring the uk ratification of the deal remains with the uk government. our determination to proceed should, however, comfort the uk government in its effort to complete its part of the ratification process. in this respect, within the limits of our principles and positions, notably as regards citizens’ rights and the irish backstop, one should remain open to talks and clarifications if this can help the ratification process in the uk. while we have been clear that renegotiation of the agreement is not on the cards, we should stand ready to act once the uk government has clarified the next steps on its side. in the meantime, we continue the ratification process in the eu, which, i understand, is also moving on in the european parliament as well. given the uncertainty i mentioned before, in terms of both timing and content, we have to continue our preparations for all outcomes, including a no-deal scenario. the council and the member states at national level are therefore intensifying their work on preparedness and contingency, building on the solid work already underway. this means, of course, new legislative activities at this late stage of the legislature, but we are confident that by working, together we can deliver. i’m encouraged in this respect by the agreement already reached on a few brexit-related proposals. the presidency, with your cooperation, is determined to facilitate the adoption of the necessary contingency measures in good time.
president of the commission. – mr president, in less than 60 days, the united kingdom is due to leave the european union. i say to mr farage and others, this is a bad decision. listen, listen. even as the commission has defended the interests of the european union, a spirit of respect and friendship has accompanied us at every step in these negotiations. the withdrawal agreement and political declaration agreed by all 27 leaders and the united kingdom government is the result of that. the withdrawal agreement remains the best and only deal possible. the european union said so in november. we said so in december. we said so after the first meaningful vote in the commons in january. the debate and votes in the house of commons yesterday do not change that. the withdrawal agreement will not be renegotiated. both sides have said loud and clear that there can be no return to a hard border on the island of ireland, no slipping back into darker times past. i believe the prime minister’s personal commitment on this point, but i also believe that we need a safety net that secures us against this risk. we have no incentive nor desire to use the safety net, but at the same time, no safety net can ever truly be safe if it can just be removed at any time. sometimes, from time to time, i have the impression that some hope exists that the 26 other countries will abandon the backstop and also ireland at the last minute, but this is not a game and neither is it a simple bilateral issue. it goes to the heart of what being a member of the european union means. ireland’s border is europe’s border and it is our union’s priority. we know from yesterday’s debate that the house of commons is against many things. it is against a no-deal brexit, it is against the backstop, but we still do not know what exactly the house of commons is actually for. the concept of alternative arrangements is not new. it was discussed in the negotiations. it is referred to in the political declaration and, in our letter to prime minister may, donald tusk and i committed to explore it further as a matter of priority, but a concept is not a plan. it is not an operational solution. many in the house of commons, both amongst those who voted for and those who voted against the amendment are aware of this. i will continue to be in close contact with prime minister may, for whom i have the greatest respect, and i will listen to her ideas, but i will also be extremely clear about the position of the european union that i have presented today. monsieur le président, mesdames et messieurs, laissez-moi vous dire clairement que le vote d’hier a accru le risque d’un retrait désordonné du royaume-uni. nous devons continuer à tout faire pour nous préparer à tous les scénarios, y compris le pire. la commission a commencé ses travaux préparatoires en décembre 2017 et ces dernières semaines, en étroite coopération avec votre parlement, monsieur le président, nous avons accéléré nos préparations. j’ai envoyé une équipe dans chaque capitale pour aider les états membres à être prêts. le conseil européen a apporté son appui à ce travail depuis le début. nous avons à ce jour publié 88 notifications montrant quelles sont les conséquences du brexit dans différents domaines, ainsi que 18 propositions ou actes législatifs. les trois dernières propositions portant sur le programme erasmus, la sécurité sociale et le budget de l’union européenne ont été adoptées et présentées aujourd’hui. je voudrais d’ores et déjà remercier tous les membres du parlement qui sont concernés, afin de garantir que nous parvenions à des accords rapides sur ces propositions et sur tous les dossiers urgents en attente. il est plus que jamais important que l’union européenne reste calme, unie et déterminée, comme elle l’a été tout au long de ce processus. dans ce travail, nous devons suivre une règle d’or: nous ne devons pas reproduire les bénéfices de l’accord de retrait ou de la déclaration politique. i am still an optimist by nature, and a believer in democratic institutions by conviction. this leads me to believe that there can and will be agreement with the united kingdom, so that we can move on and move forward together with our new partnership. we will work day and night to make it happen and to ensure that we are ready in case it does not. whichever way, i will always ensure that this house is the first to know, and the last to decide. (applause)
the eu's chief negotiator for brexit. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam secretary of state, first of all, thank you, mr president, for allowing me to speak again here in the plenary, and thus, day after day, to consolidate with president juncker the climate of trust, transparency and dialogue that we have built together with you, ladies and gentlemen, and in particular with the brexit steering group, guy verhofstadt and all the members of this group for the last year and a half, at the rate of one meeting practically every week. ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, for the first time, the british prime minister, theresa may, openly advocated for the reopening of the withdrawal agreement. even before the votes at the end of the evening, she distanced herself from the agreement she had negotiated and on which we had agreed. the british government has subsequently given explicit support to the amendment tabled by sir graham brady, which calls for the backstop we have provided in the irish protocol to be replaced by alternative arrangements, which have never been defined. at the same time, the house of commons rejected the no-deal scenario, without giving any details on how to avoid such a scenario. that is the situation we find ourselves in this afternoon. in the course of this very long and extraordinary negotiation, we are at a point, mr president, which i would describe - as i was on the front line alongside and under the authority of president juncker, president tusk and yourself - as a serious and very serious one. president tusk last night, president juncker just now, said that we share the british parliament's desire to avoid a no deal, and i agree with theresa may: voting against a no deal as was the case last night does not eliminate the risk of a no deal. for us, ladies and gentlemen, the withdrawal agreement is and remains the best and only way to ensure an orderly withdrawal of the united kingdom and to implement in an orderly manner the sovereign decision taken by a majority of british citizens, whom we respect, to leave the european union. and i believe that, despite the difficulties of today, we can achieve this goal, provided we are both realistic and lucid, respectful and responsible. each other, each other. ladies and gentlemen, the backstop that president juncker has spoken about is part of the withdrawal agreement and that agreement will not be renegotiated. the conclusions of the european council in december, which agree in every respect with the declarations and resolutions of the european parliament, leave no doubt about this. i would like to say a word about the backstop, so that everyone can see what it is all about. the backstop is not dogmatism, it is a realistic solution. we have been looking throughout this negotiation, under your control, for solutions to the problems created, in particular but not only, in ireland, by brexit itself. the backstop as it appears in the withdrawal agreement is the result of the extremely intense negotiations we have been conducting for the last two years with the united kingdom, never against the united kingdom. the backstop is a pragmatic response to the unique situation on the island of ireland after the united kingdom made a sovereign decision not only to leave the european union, but also to leave the single market and finally to leave the customs union. it took two years to find this solution which reconciles several requirements. the first requirement for all of us is to avoid at all costs the return of a hard border in ireland, that is to say to preserve the conditions which have been there for 20 years of peace, stability and dialogue on the island of ireland, since in particular the signing of the good friday agreement. i would also remind you that the united kingdom itself, through its prime minister, has repeatedly confirmed its commitment as a co-guarantor of the terms of the good friday agreement. and we ourselves have been supporting for 20 years, through the peace programme, european law, european policies and the european budget, the successful development of this cooperation between the various communities. the second requirement is the willingness and the request of the british government to keep northern ireland and great britain in a single customs territory. the third requirement, which is obviously ours, and for which we are collectively responsible, is to preserve the integrity of the internal market. ladies and gentlemen, this last point is fundamental for us. the irish border will become, by british will, the border of the european union and the internal market. this will be our new external border. what is at stake is, of course, the protection of all consumers and all businesses in the union. i will say this in more concrete terms: the uk's decision to leave the union, the single market and the internal market has a practical consequence, which is that any goods, any living animal, any product of animal or plant origin that enters northern ireland from britain enters not only northern ireland and ireland, but also the single market of your countries. the nature, quality, safety and regularity of this product, the safety linked to animal protection - i say this as a former minister of agriculture of my country - require checks, which we do at each of the external borders, throughout the european union: fiscal checks, health checks, veterinary checks, regulatory checks. we owe this protection to all consumers, 500 million today in the uk, and 22 million businesses. we owe this protection to all those who make the internal market work and live. among those who are calling for the backstop to be abolished today are british members of parliament - i was listening to one more this morning - who have negotiated with us and who know full well that the backstop is the solution we have found for what is - as jean-claude juncker said - the heart of our obligations and principles as europeans, namely the protection of the internal market in all its dimensions and the rights attached to it: social rights, economic rights, consumer rights, environmental rights and the protection of businesses and consumers. ladies and gentlemen, when i hear some of those who have been involved in the negotiations speak as they do, i find it difficult to accept the blame game they would like to play against us. (applause) i would like to say, following president juncker, that we will not do anything - it is as simple as that and i say this calmly - that would weaken the internal market. we will not do anything which would jeopardise the future of the european union for the sake of this negotiation. and as president juncker said, we are of course open to the alternative arrangements that were discussed yesterday in the house of commons. the irish protocol and the political declaration mention them, and the letter from presidents tusk and juncker even made them a priority in future negotiations. we are ready to work on this as soon as this withdrawal agreement is signed. but today, frankly, no one on either side is able to say precisely, in a clear way, what these alternative arrangements would be like in order to be operational and to actually fulfil the objectives of the backstop. that is why i say again calmly and clearly, at the moment we are, and with this withdrawal agreement as it is being offered to you for ratification, we need this backstop as it is. ladies and gentlemen, to reject the backstop as it stands today is to reject the solution that was found with the british, but the problem remains, as i have described it. on this point, and beyond the question of the alternative arrangements i have mentioned, the european council, like the european parliament, have already repeatedly and clearly rejected the idea of a time limit or a unilateral exit from the backstop, since such ideas would immediately distort the very idea of the backstop, which is an insurance that we do not want to use - as you would your own insurance in your apartment or your house - but which is there if we ever needed it. finally, i would like to point out that the withdrawal agreement that is being discussed and that you are aware of goes far beyond the irish question. this agreement secures the rights of over 4.5 million citizens. mr president, you mentioned parliament's priority, we have made it our own and, whatever happens, the security of the rights of our citizens, our 3.5 million compatriots, nationals of our different countries, who live in the united kingdom and, of course, reciprocally, the security of the rights of the 1.5 million british citizens who are resident in one of our countries, will remain our priority. this agreement protects all beneficiaries of the european budget in the 28 countries. the commitments made by 28 will be respected by 28. the agreement provides for a transitional period of 21 months during which both businesses and administrations on both sides can prepare for this future relationship and during which we will have the time - a very short, demanding time - to negotiate this future relationship in a new negotiation phase. this agreement is the prerequisite for building the trust we need between the united kingdom, which will remain a friend, ally and partner, and the european union. a real partnership, solid and ambitious. i would just like to add that as far as this future relationship is concerned, the europeans are ready and will remain ready in the days ahead to be more ambitious and to rework the nature and intensity of our future relationship, especially economically. as you know, ladies and gentlemen, there are several models of economic cooperation with third countries. each of these models obviously has its own balance of rights and obligations, but there are many models. i simply mean that if the british demand were to move beyond a simple free trade agreement, which we agreed in the political declaration, to implementing either of these models, we are and will be ready to discuss it immediately and to meet a new british ambition with our own ambition. this has already been said by you in your resolutions and by the european council. ladies and gentlemen, i was speaking earlier about realism and lucidity, as you did, madam secretary of state, less than 60 days before the united kingdom's withdrawal. in the absence today of a positive majority in the house of commons for a solution identified and acceptable to the european union, it is, as president juncker said, urgent and necessary to prepare for all scenarios and to put in place all the emergency measures that are more necessary than ever. this is the task entrusted by president juncker to the secretary-general and all the teams working with you, your committees and all the member states. i thank you for your attention and for your trust. (applause) i would like to thank
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. first of all, i would like to thank jean-claude juncker and michel barnier for the good cooperation, the real transparency, the information we are getting and also the listening in this process. a fine example of cooperation! and that is why we are very conscious of our continued support for this negotiating strategy. we have seen votes in the house of commons yesterday in which all constructive proposals such as a new referendum, a customs union were rejected. the only position agreed was that mrs may would now come for the third or fourth time to discuss the backstop with brussels again - nothing new. i think it's important now, before mrs may gets here, that you two talk to each other. it's a scandal that the leader of the opposition and the head of the government haven't spoken in over three years. when you quit, you should know what you want before you start harassing others. please come up with your own position! talk to each other! please talk to each other. come to a constructive idea and come back to brussels. that might be an important question. talk to each other. we are united. you are not united within the government, within the tory party, within the labour party. that's the main problem. we see here that we have a negative majority, made up of different groups, ranging from the hard brexit people to the remainers. and we can negotiate and propose whatever we want: those who want a hard brexit will not agree, and those who still hope - with them is my heart, but no longer the mind - we will have to see that they will reject everything that is not a referendum. and as long as that is the situation, nothing will happen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and you have to see this: ireland is a member of the european union. the european union has a large part to play in the creation of the good friday agreement. i remember our old friend and colleague john hume, who has done this with many others from this house. (interruption: rubbish, rubbish, what is this? ) we will defend this. we will defend the peace programme. we don't want a hard border. and the british government has also said that they don't want a hard border, has signed on several times that they want a backstop in december 2017 for the first time. i need to get this straight. we will defend ireland and try to get a soft border. but you have to have the other side's willingness. and the backstop we have today with this customs union is a british invention, it was the british proposal. the european union has made other proposals. so you're willing to negotiate something that you proposed yourself. i think it's a great trick that's been done. and that's why we need to talk. you must talk to each other in london and settle this matter amongst yourselves. we are getting a transitional arrangement with the withdrawal agreement where we can arrange a lot of things, like a free trade area or going further - norway, switzerland, we are all open to that. but we don't need the backstop for that. it is clear to everyone that 99% of the time when we reach the transition period, the backstop will not be applied at all. so it is not a question of settling the matter, but of not wanting to have an agreement for the various reasons i have outlined. and i ask you to put that right, to make that clear. that's why it's safe to say we're running the preparedness legislation now. it's important that we're ready when a proposal comes in, to talk openly, to reach a solution. i welcome the house of commons saying we don't want a hard brexit - we don't want that either. i don't even want brexit at all, to make that clear again... (applause) i would like to thank but that is the british decision to make, and we have to accept that, and we have to keep the damage to both sides as small as possible. the only thing that is clear to me, and the british people need to know, is that the damage to britain is always greater. the european market is fourteen times as large as the british market. businesses will pull out. all those who produce for the european market will leave the uk. it's going to be a bitter hour for britain. it will be a harmful hour for us, but a bitter hour for britain. let us come together and talk sensibly, and that means that the british side must first have its own constructive position. (interruption: see you later)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we have of course also discussed today in our group how we intend to deal with the present situation in the light of yesterday's vote. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. it is not the best thing that could be desired for the future relationship - as a basis for the development of future relations between the eu and the uk - but it is obviously what has been worked out with a lot of effort, with a lot of resources and with a lot of nerves lost over the last two years, one and a half years. at some point you have to decide whether you stand for what you can achieve together or whether each of you will try again on your own i want to pick this out, i want to do something again and then ultimately endanger the common foundations massively. i would like to remind you of this at this point, and i would also like to say this to my colleagues in the house of commons: what we have done as the european parliament, almost two years ago, when we formulated the mandate for the negotiations, is that we have been able to influence mr barnier's mandate and that in this debate we have been able to make clear, among other things, the importance of considering the rights of eu citizens in the united kingdom, but also of british citizens in the european union, and on the other hand the whole question of stabilising the peace process in northern ireland, as red lines in these negotiations. it was not about our own interests, it was about the issues of peace and stability throughout the union. i have already followed the debate in the house of commons very closely at the beginning of january, when the first vote was held, and also yesterday, and i had the impression that our british colleagues were not taking us seriously enough. they also don't understand certain processes, and they debate as if they can vote on the changes themselves. no, ladies and gentlemen in london, you must also talk to us about this, you must also take our position into account, you cannot pretend that the british empire also applies in the european union. we have our own democracy here. you have been part of this democracy until now. i have always held in high esteem and appreciation what i knew of british diplomacy and democracy. i am appalled at the spectacle that is being put before us. i think it's important to get back to the basics of what we're actually trying to achieve in the end, and not just get stuck in. i say quite clearly: the only hope i have left is that the conversation between corbyn and theresa may will actually bring some movement to the negotiations with the eu, and then we can still make progress. we are open to developing more relationships, to developing clear relationships. but what we are not going to do - at least not by my group, and i am very glad that the other groups, most of them at least, are of the same opinion - is to vote against the report. we will not allow any backsliding on employment rights, environmental standards, consumer protection standards. we will not allow the good friday agreement to be disrespected in all its parts. we will not allow a hard border to be imposed, we will not allow eu citizens to be treated as third country nationals in the uk on 30 march and to face a discriminatory process that takes away all their rights. i would like to say this to my colleagues in the house of commons in particular: i was glad when my british colleagues at the time fought for the right to have a say in this process. but then they should use that voice and say out loud what they really want.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, should the parliamentary process in the uk lead to a ratification of the withdrawal agreement, hopefully along the foreseen timeline, we will have to move to the next steps, starting with the implementation. this implementation will have to be kept under close watch so that it delivers in the interest of citizens and businesses, and contributes to the trust needed for the negotiations of the future relationship, which are unlikely to be easy. we will therefore count on your cooperation at all stages of these processes in the years to come.
in writing. the british people must decide which brexit they want. there is still disagreement in the house of commons about how brexit should be structured. symptomatic of this is that theresa may is coming to brussels for the third or fourth time to renegotiate the backstop. i can only emphasize once again what my colleague in the group, elmar brok, said: when you leave, you should know what you want before you harass others! we know what we want: not to curtail the four fundamental freedoms of the european union and not to jeopardize the peace between ireland and northern ireland.
on behalf of the group of the european democratic alliance mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am grateful that we have this debate on the agenda today, which i requested. the many examples show how necessary it is. the mood in society is becoming more and more heated. it is far too often that it ends in physical violence against officials. i am thinking in particular of the example of the mayor of gdańsk, mr adamowicz, who was the victim of a shameful assassination. mr lewandowski has said all he can about that. the european union is not only concerned about poland, but also about the other countries. i want to make it quite clear that we must all condemn all forms of politically motivated violence. but while - and i must criticize this - right-wing violence is rightly condemned, left-wing violence is often downplayed. german social democrats are promoting this thinking: stegner, the spd party vice-president, says that violence is not left-wing. his party colleague martin schulz - well known in this house - even claims that the left and the use of force are mutually exclusive. a look at the history books would do these gentlemen good . the black books of socialism and communism fill thousands of pages. and left-wing violence is also a problem of the present. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe. representatives of my party are now facing detailed calls for their arrest, including myself. of course, there would have to be a consensus in this house to condemn antifa for its violent excesses. quite the opposite! we have even here in this house members of the german green party, who proudly display the antifa flag in the chamber, and who therefore in principle are committed to violent left-wing extremism. one of them even became the leader of the green group, mrs keller. i ask because she's not here, so i ask as an example: mrs. keller, aren't you ashamed of yourself? when fascism returns, he will not say, 'i am fascism.' no, he will say: 'i am the anti-fascist', that is said to have been prophesied by ignazio silone. antifa is the symbol of this comeback, and large sections of the left can't even distance themselves from it. no, they're even in solidarity with this gang of thugs. and that, with all due respect, is pathetic! if left-wing violence is so trivialized, it is no wonder that bombs are thrown at the offices of my patriotic party and members are beaten into hospitals. that's the difference: we will always stand up for the right of the left to defend any nonsense. the left, on the other hand, wants to silence us. i promise you, they won't succeed! (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. if there is any doubt as to why i am here, i am here because i am concerned about the budget control committee, what is happening to the european funds in hungary. the money is doing a lot of good there: it is improving living conditions, reducing unemployment and increasing incomes. that's what we thought it would be. but we are concerned that we are not protecting eu funds as we should. hungary has a problem with fraud, with sham tendering procedures, with corruption and with judicial authorities who are unwilling or unable to prosecute these crimes properly because there may be people involved whom they want to protect. the budget controllers also have a problem with the fact that the hungarian government is doing far too little and sometimes nothing about this. so, madam president-in-office, please ensure that the commission's rule of law regulation can be launched in trilogue soon so that we can have that regulation soon. the corruption index published yesterday puts hungary third-last in the eu, ranking 64th in the world, just ahead of greece. in greece, however, the arrow points upward. it is getting better there, while in hungary it has gotten significantly worse since 2012. that is sad. i firmly believe that hungary can do more and that joining the european public prosecutor would be an important confidence-building step. no country can be economically successful and at the same time tolerate corruption. i would like to put this to you, mr timmermans, vice-president.
in writing. venezuela is currently experiencing a conflict of international significance. it is about no less than the question of "freedom or despotism?" russia, iran, china and cuba behind maduro are gathering authoritarian powers that reject and fight our liberal world order. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which is based on the principles of the united nations charter. caracas must now take the path of change with determination. this can only be done through free, transparent and credible presidential elections that meet international standards and the national constitution. if mr maduro does not immediately clear the way for new elections, the member states should immediately recognise juan guaidó as interim president. the eu foreign ministers will meet in bucharest tomorrow to discuss the situation in venezuela. as chairman of the foreign affairs committee, i will be attending the meeting and presenting the clear message of the european parliament, which is based on today's debate and our resolution.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the socialist group is committed to the one-china policy. this is the guiding principle we have followed over the years and continue to follow. but at the same time there is great sympathy in this house and among us for taiwan, firstly because of the functioning of democracy in the region and, of course, also because of the integration of the country into the world economy through the market economy which prevails in taiwan. parliament has repeatedly called for the conflict between the mainland and taiwan to be resolved through peaceful dialogue, cooperation and confidence-building measures. that is still true. i believe that there is no military solution, but only a political solution through all these forms of dialogue leading to closer cooperation. many have been alarmed by president xi jinping's speech that china is also prepared to use force. but you should also read the speech carefully. it says at the beginning of this chapter, "chinese people do not fight chinese people". that is what has been said, and the dictionary therefore provides for measures against outside intervention. we know what is being said, namely that taiwan is being used as a pawn in the conflict between the united states and china. i do not think that would be in the interests of europe either. xi jinping said: "one country, two systems". this is a nice thing to say, but there are completely different political systems, and they are moving not towards each other, but away from each other. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not china's taiwan policy is changing, it's becoming more aggressive. president xi jinping has said so. his threat of military force is false. but we also talk about the fact that china is putting pressure on taiwan on many different levels: economic pressure, pressure on the diplomatic level by buying off taiwan's partners, and above all the militarization and armament buildup in the taiwan strait, which worries us. the only acceptable thing for our one-china policy is a peaceful future on both sides of the taiwan strait. that is why we stand in solidarity with democratic taiwan.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not in its foreign policy towards china, the eu has a very clear common position: the one-china policy. article 2 (5) of the lisbon treaty states that the union shall contribute to peace, to mutual respect among peoples and to respect for international law. there's nothing in it about sowing discord, not in china, not in the caribbean. no one should love the sound of saber-rattling, not here, not in the caribbean, not on the streets of taiwan. the european union must not allow the use of internal conflicts in all their complexity. that would be the trump method. our commitment is to promote dialogue and to find solutions. it's all about the right order. we must talk to each other, we must encourage dialogue, we must push through the complex issues, including the international issues of sovereignty and self-determination. let us first agree on an investment or even a trade agreement with the people's republic of china, on the eu side, and then we will have a ... (speaker speaking without a microphone)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as chairman of the friendship group, i would like to thank my colleagues who are fighting for a democratic taiwan. and i agree with mr bütikofer that the one-china policy since 1992 can only be justified in a completely peaceful environment. and i am surprised that the chairman of the chinese delegation, mr leinen, who is now gone, is here pretending that this was just a statement. i'm not going to. it was a highly political statement made not by president xi alone, but in the presence of the entire leadership, with the threat of military force. and if this kind of threat continues, then there can be only one answer for the european union: we must recognize taiwan diplomatically! another language will not understand china. and we must help taiwan so that the chinese, with their pressure mechanisms, do not continue to throw the taiwanese out of international treaties and negotiations.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not commissioner, you are for fair and ethical trade. you told us you wouldn't negotiate with a gun to your head. trump didn't take anything back. the european steel, aluminium and car industries remain under threat, and the strengthening of multilateral world trade is still in the dark. they have presented the council with a draft mandate which is either unrealistic or dishonest. you will not be able to push through the demands and red lines. trump will not commit to a zero-tariff future. the united states will continue to push for agricultural products to be included in this agreement, because that is the core of the current fast-track mandate of congress. contrary to your claim to refuse, you have already made the usa the largest supplier of soybeans to europe over the last eight months, with a 77% market share. before the juncker-trump deal, it was 9%. they are also preparing a special law to allow american genetically modified soybeans to be used in european biodiesel production. for our companies, competition is about fair production conditions, environmental costs and decent jobs.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am glad that we are discussing this subject today, because we must beware of taking the wrong course. no one is against lowering tariffs. but i think, mrs malmström, that overall the mandate you propose is unrealistic. the us does not want to stick to the agreement made by president juncker in july. what about the contribution of trade to the fight against sustainability and climate change? what about president trump's promise to remove all trade barriers when he refuses to negotiate public procurement rules in the first place? what about the risk that mutual recognition of standards will lead to standard dumping? i am afraid, mrs malmström, that you are engaged in what in english would be called a kind of can-kicking, but we are just running out of road.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is interesting to see how the fact that president trump is now a negotiating partner in the united states at least affects the debate in this parliament. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have to deal with the problem of the gatt, but i am saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have to deal with the problem of the gatt. donald trump has made a very simple and very clear proposal and since everyone in this house is in principle in favour of lowering tariffs and only in principle and occasionally against it: he said let's reduce all tariffs, let's eliminate them all! that is a reasonable proposal, mrs malmström. the negotiations could be very simple with donald trump.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the colleagues who have worked on the report. gunnar hökmark has already said the essential points from the epp group's point of view. that is why i would like to add to the point mrs kappel made at the end. i think that enough has already been said on the subject of digital enterprises and the question of how competition law should be applied there, and that some of it has already been applied by the commission. the commission has done an excellent job in the fiscal field, i think, in bringing to light the contradictions in the member states' behaviour. but the key question we face in competition law and particularly in merger control is how we involve the larger, the major economic regions of the world with their market structures in our decision-making. i am not going to mention countries because it would lead the debate in the wrong direction. but it is of course dangerous in the long run to try to enforce strict competition rules, which may indeed, in individual cases, bring together all the relevant criteria, but then the big players in the world do not care about these rules at all and simply ignore them. it is not a matter of the european union's long-term interests. i think we need a new idea for the coming years on how we can manage to take into account not only the consumer markets in the european union in order to assess market concentration, but also the supplier markets, which are often in the far east and which present us with difficulties that we cannot manage today. this is a task which, in my view, the new commission will have to deal with.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not a new eu strategy for roma inclusion yes, but not like this. why did all the strategies, plans, the roma decade and so on fail? the best strategy is useless if we don't identify the root of the evil, if we simply continue to ignore and taboo the main obstacle to inclusion, if we don't tackle the root of the failure. antigypsyism has been entrenched in mainstream society and institutions for centuries. poverty is the consequence, not the cause. the new eu roma framework must not be used to exploit our people as slave labour because they are roma. we need genuine, equal participation and inclusion of people with roma backgrounds from the beginning and at all levels. we must finally raise awareness among civil society and politicians. the access of ngos to funds must not be bureaucratically frustrated and we must expand anti-corruption strategies. we will use these projects as a model for a new roma framework.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. today we have commemorated in plenary the liberation of the auschwitz concentration camp. in the days around 27 january 1945, many of those persecuted by the nazis were liberated: jews, resistance fighters, homosexuals and even roma. at least 500,000 sinti and roma were murdered during the nazi era. we must also remember the sinti and roma on this day of liberation in the european parliament in the future. antigypsyism is still part of european society. this racism is the reason why roma are still discriminated against today. in hungary, in particular, under the fidesz regime, which feels well represented in the conservative and epp groups, roma continue to be subject to racial discrimination. in the fight against antigypsyism, a change of perspective is needed. we need an inclusion strategy. the challenge is therefore to see how the social framework conditions for a good life for roma must change. this is the indispensable task of the european union if it is to be taken seriously as a community of values. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for the additional explanations. i am grateful that the hungarian government has now come to realise that it is finally trying to change the massive discrimination which has existed in the past in various hungarian towns. that is to be welcomed. i hope that the fidesz party will come to its senses and that its anti-discrimination strategy will be followed by real action. i am of course aware that the social framework conditions in hungary must also be fundamentally improved, especially for roma. it is not possible for roma to live in urban areas, in ghettos, with difficult social conditions. the first thing that must be done here is to combat anti-gypsyism in hungary. then i think we are on the right track in europe and also in hungary.
i would like to say one more fundamental thing about hungary. we also have to ask, what schools are roma children going to? because they're often segregated schools. what is the level of education? and the job creation measures, how are they paid? what's the salary? because that's the whole point of the whole thing. and i 'll tell you something . this roma strategy, this new roma framework, if we do not include the people concerned, on an equal footing here in the development, there will be a second time just as negative result as there was the first time.
member of the commission. – mr president, the commission welcomes the fact that, in line with the framework agreement between our institutions, the european parliament has sought the opinion of the commission on amendments to the rules of procedure which affect us. we have set out our opinion in the letters addressed by first vice—president timmermans to ms hübner on 9 october, ahead of the committee vote, and to president tajani yesterday, ahead of the vote in plenary tomorrow. i will not repeat in detail now what you will all have seen in writing, but i will flag just a few points. we welcome several amendments, such as those on the transparency of intergroups, the abolition of minor interpellations, the improvements to public hearings and the ‘unfinished business’ rule as concerns citizens’ initiatives and the threshold for the verification procedure for citizens’ requests under the statute of european political parties. we remain concerned that some of the amendments on parliamentary questions could reduce the efficiency and quality of this important means of democratic accountability, in particular with regard to the removal of the limit on the number of questions and the introduction of very tight target deadlines for replies. with regard to the transparency—related amendments, the commission looks at this issue from the angle of the negotiations on the draft interinstitutional agreement on a mandatory transparency register. the objective of the commission’s proposal is to make the register de facto mandatory for interest representatives through a conditionality principle, requiring that decision makers in all three eu institutions meet only with lobbyists who are registered. unfortunately, so far the european parliament and the council have put forward only voluntary approaches. tomorrow you will consider the amendment that would provide that members shall adopt the systematic practice of meeting only those interest representatives who have registered in the transparency register. the commission would welcome such a move in the context of our negotiations on the interinstitutional agreement. by contrast, we are concerned about another amendment which would weaken the existing provision in the rules of procedure. other amendments seek to increase the information published about meetings with lobbyists. the commission would like to point out that they solely concern the publication of meetings and so fall short of applying the conditionality principle: not on the register, no meeting. the commission will assess the consequences of the outcome of your vote tomorrow in preparation for the new political meeting on the proposal for an interinstitutional agreement, which we hope will take place in the margins of the february plenary session.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank richard corbett and the working party very warmly for the immense work and balanced report that has been presented here. there have been far more radical proposals, but here reasonable compromises have been made. transparency is the mantra of this election cycle. we promised to make our work more public and more traceable, and with the changes in the rules of procedure we are doing our homework here in parliament. in fact, members of parliament have a free mandate, we cannot be forced not to meet someone. so we're free to meet anyone who has a concern. but we also say that lobbyists have to register, and that when we meet them, we will inform the public ourselves if possible. we have now established that this is not obligatory for members. it was necessary to have a law and not just the rules of procedure. but you can very well ask officials here in parliament to post their meetings with lobbyists online. that is the very meaning of this regulation now. i cannot understand why we should vote in secret on this. as richard corbett said, voting in an opaque way on transparency is already a piece of the madhouse in the history of the european parliament. it'll go down in the annals tomorrow, too. i would also like to speak about the formation of political groups in my own time. i know there are still some people who are intervening. so a political group, as the name says, has to have some political affinity, otherwise it's not a political group. we cannot simply come and say: 'let us get together to reach the numbers, then we will have all the advantages, but we do not get together, we do not vote together, we do not have a common programme either.' this is not a political group - there is so much to protest against - it is against the spirit, indeed against the seriousness of this parliament. i hope that this will get a majority tomorrow, because after the next election there is a risk that we will have more than one fake group here, which will not make sense and will not promote the work. all in all, richard, thank you, and i hope that's a big majority tomorrow.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i am glad that we have at least today's debate in plenary. the rules of procedure and any amendments thereto require an unhindered and intensive democratic debate on their purpose and content. this is important, also in terms of the credibility of our work as a people's representative. we can only demand and represent externally what and how we do in our dealings here in the house and with the other eu institutions ourselves, how we organise the work of the european parliament. our group firstly expressly supports the proposed changes to the transparency and traceability of our legislative work, including the mandatory proof of meetings between committee chairmen, rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs with representatives of the so-called lobby structures. i hope that you, ladies and gentlemen, will accept this new version of the rules of procedure by a large majority. it does not restrict the freedom of the mandate but can help to counter political disillusionment among broad sections of the population in all eu28 member states. secondly, we believe that the rules of procedure should not be politicised, as might be the case with amendments nos 86 and 87. we should have discussed this at length in committee. the criteria for this are not entirely clear in the proposals, and amendment no 88 is only a little more helpful.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. blue card is not the same as speaking time. the report is in fact the follow-up to the major reforms, and most of the points are largely uncontroversial. unfortunately, the report has now been used as an opportunity to undermine the freedom of the mandate. i disagree with the other speakers. the bureau's organisational task is being burdened with the introduction of detailed rules which the bureau is supposed to be bound to observe. that is not part of the rules of procedure. and there is an attempt to make members of parliament accountants of their work. to say: it is not planned that unplanned meetings will be recorded there but in the end it would turn out that even a handshake on the street would already come into a certain grim light; we will oppose it. but it's an election campaign, and if you've read gabriel garcía márquez's "love in the time of cholera", you'll be reminded of the question, "reason in the time of the election". we're obviously in a campaign. and now, in the last few days, there's been a bit of a stir about the secret ballot. the epp group has nothing to hide, the voting list will be available to everyone tomorrow. the epp group has made it clear that it is against this regulation. but we see that members of parliament have to do their work under peer pressure, at the risk of stigmatisation. and that is why we want to give everyone here the opportunity to vote freely. mr corbett, i would like to thank you for your reply. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament. that was a very simple argument. and mr castaldo, you are taking money and forming a group, and i would like to ask you: how many times has this group met? not once, my friend! (the president cut the speaker off)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. why are only 24 of the 200 board positions in german dax companies held by women and why is there not a single woman at the top of these companies? because gender equality has still not been achieved even in the eu. this is a disgrace! the international picture is no better: of the 500 largest companies in the world, only 3% are headed by a woman as a member of the executive board. that we still have to discuss this issue in 2019 is shameful and makes me seriously doubt our much-vaunted progressiveness. it seems that there are still many agnostics who believe that women are only there for reproductive purposes and belong behind the stove because they are supposedly not suitable for managerial functions in the economy. do we really want to wait another 40 years? this is the time it would take to increase the proportion of women in management and supervisory boards to 40% without binding regulations. we don't need to have any more long discussions. this world is not a man's world, but a world for all men, regardless of their gender. so let us finally put an end to the misogynistic and anachronistic thinking in the executive.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am glad about this directive and i am glad about the debate, for a number of reasons. i think it's very good that more and more men are involved when we talk about this, because we have to do this together as a society, to achieve more equality for women and more representation of women in all areas, because they are also really good enough, just as good as men. the gender pay gap has been addressed. i know that in germany it is particularly high, higher than in other countries. we are discussing a parity law with very different approaches. some member states already have equal opportunities laws for the underrepresented sex. i think it's actually a shame that we still have to talk about it; it would be good if we did. i was very pleased, for example, when mrs regner said that it was in fact in the european dna that there should be equality between men and women. and that is why i hope that there will be a broad consensus on this. we just really need to see that we finally get some closure.
prime minister of finland. – mr president, i bring warm regards from very cold finland. i was in the northern part of finland, where i live, last weekend, and there was minus 30° and about a metre of snow – a real winter! it’s a pleasure to be here today. the european parliament has done excellent work in the recent very challenging circumstances. forward-looking discussions about the european union are essential for two reasons. in order to realise the vision of the rome declaration we need to discuss how we achieve sufficient unity to make decisions and implement them. secondly, we must debate to discover each other’s priorities in relation to the eu’s action and budget. eu countries became familiar to me as an entrepreneur through sister companies around europe. i remember, in my thirties, travelling to meet the ceo of a big french company. on the plane, i read a guidebook my wife had borrowed from the library for me. it said that you should never ask anything about family when you are in a business meeting with a frenchman. when i arrived, there was a dinner meeting and the ceo was there with wife and daughter. the first question to me was ‘tell me about your family.’ so i understood that we europeans get along and we have more in common than we may think. as long ago as the 1920s, a founder of the finnish centre party, santeri alkio, wrote that, for the sake of peace in europe, the continent should consider shifting its politics towards a united states of europe. he even mentioned a common currency. he was a pioneer in many respects, including this one. choosing international cooperation and generating peace and economic development have been guiding threads for finland. friends, in recent years we have been given a lesson in populism in europe. we have seen where it leads to when the solutions for complex issues are provided by simplifying matters. in the end, nobody takes responsibility. there has been such a case in the united kingdom and the result is there for all to see. not only brexit but also populism hit the eu from several fronts. setbacks on the rule of law, freedom of the press and women’s rights are news we would not expect to hear in 21st century europe. how can the eu promote its common values in its external policies if it can’t do so within the union? common values such as democracy and the rule of law have been the foundation of europe’s freedom, security and prosperity. they should unite the member states. it is essential to bridge europeans’ internal divisions. at the same time, there cannot be any compromise on the rule of law. finland warmly welcomes the commission’s rule-of-law proposal in respect of the multi-annual financial framework (mff). i am convinced that there is a way to establish a well-balanced mechanism to that end. mr president, honourable members, the cornerstone in terms of finland’s position towards a developing eu, as well as monetary union, is to respect what has been agreed and to ensure efficient implementation. we strongly support the kind of european union that achieves its credibility throughout concrete action. in 2015, my government started with a situation where our public deficit was nearly 3.5% relative to gdp. we made 2% painful savings. we implemented reforms, improving public finances, including social and healthcare reform and pension reform. an internal devaluation of 4% was made for the purpose of boosting employment and growth. we agreed with the unions on a salary freeze and cuts, an extension of 24 hours in annual working time and a decrease in employees’ social security contributions, to name but a few aspects. as you might guess, this list was not very popular. however, now, after three years, the public deficit is covered, the state budget is in balance and the employment rate is the highest in 30 years. with that said, the idea of solving problems of this kind through permanent fiscal transfers is unacceptable for us. the best insurance against economic shocks is a balanced budget and a low debt ratio. many times over these years, i have come back to a quote from jean claude juncker – ‘we all know what to do, we just don’t know how to get re-elected after we have done it.’ for my part, i am testing this in practice in the upcoming elections in april. let’s see! my point is that, despite the risk, the member states must be capable of making decisions and implementing them. efficient implementation is absolutely the best method of responding to current and future challenges. we need implementation of the single market and r&d and innovations, implementation of the internal and external security policies, implementation of migration policies, implementation of climate policies. better implementation is the best tool in fighting populism and in increasing citizens’ confidence in the european union. honourable members, finland holds the eu presidency in the second half of this year, so next i will point out some areas that will be on the agenda during our presidency. these are also topics on which the eu must be able to work more closely together and to ‘walk the talk’ efficiently. i’ll start with the mff, which is a key implementation tool for future eu policy. in finland’s view, the overall level of the mff should be as close as possible to current relative share. the focus needs to be in the areas where the eu is best placed to deliver, such as migration, security, the single market, innovation, digitalisation and climate. we also see a need to reallocate funding for rural development within the budget. the common agriculture policy helps to provide affordable and safe food to our citizens. it ensures that farmers can make a reasonable living and it promotes jobs in the farming and food industry. at the same time, cohesion policy creates more balanced development between and inside the member states. i am confident that we will be able to find a balanced compromise between traditional policy areas and new challenges. i am also confident that we can do it during the finnish presidency. secondly, we need a migration policy with a comprehensive approach. to begin with, the root causes of migration must be addressed more efficiently. in addition to development cooperation and humanitarian aid, trade and investments are needed to create jobs and sustainable development. we must also work hard to develop a more effective return policy. the internal aspect of migration is in our own hands. we should manage migration increasingly throughout direct resettlements from the refugee camps. this would mean less pressure on the eu’s external borders and less smuggling. at the same time, management of our external borders should be reinforced. there is also a need to proceed with the most complicated political issues, including a mechanism on solidarity during crises. it’s crucial that we agree on this in advance, not in the middle of a crisis – as we did in 2015. thirdly, security and defence cooperation is important and needs to be intensified. finland has been actively calling for ambitious progress on security and defence cooperation, together too with france. now we welcome the progress made: the creation of a european defence fund and permanent structured cooperation (pesco) have been steps in the right direction. now we should take concrete action on implementation and achieving results. the eu has also strengthened its capacity for countering hybrid threats. the european centre for countering hybrid threats, in helsinki, contributes to the preparedness of nato and eu countries against these threats. i want to thank the 19 participating countries, of which 16 are eu member states, for their strong commitment. i would also welcome all the remaining member states joining the centre. fourth, we must improve the single market. we are the best single market in the world. alongside innovation and trade, this is our best way to create new jobs. a lot of potential exists, especially in services and digital products. improving the situation is entirely in our own hands. i urge you to find a common mindset in order to pass those 35 proposals which are still under negotiation. looking ahead, i hope that the future commission will take a more holistic approach, within which the single market, digitalisation, industrial policy and external competitiveness are better interlinked. we should aim at forward-looking growth strategy, including, inter alia, data mobility and artificial intelligence. it’s also important to enhance competitiveness by implementing the principles of the eu social pillar. for instance, it is crucial to promote equality in working life and to enhance the education level of all citizens. fifth, trade policy is also crucial for the eu’s competitiveness and new jobs. in respect of free trade agreements, i am pleased with the latest achievements vis-à-vis japan, vietnam, singapore, mexico and canada, and with the rapid progress in ongoing negotiations. however, it’s harmful if the big players continue to build trade walls. we must do everything we can to prevent the erection of, or tear down, such walls. this is especially the view from smaller countries, to which the damage would be fatal. we must respect and obey the common rules on trade. and lastly, the eu must take a lead on climate change action. the report by the international panel on climate change again reminded us of the threat posed by climate change to life on earth. we can’t walk away from science. besides a threat, i see many possibilities in this global challenge. as an engineer, i tend to think in a solution-based and technology-based way. i am sure that, as the world moves towards low-carbon development, we are in the front line in developing new technologies, and ambitious climate policy will also support job creation here in europe. we need measures on three fronts: co2 emissions, carbon sinks and new technologies. last week, finland hosted a nordic climate meeting in helsinki. nordic countries gave a promise to raise the level of their climate ambition by 2020. the nordic countries want to catalyse mitigation efforts to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees. also in the round-table discussions in the finnish parliament, eight finnish parties set an objective that the eu should achieve carbon neutrality before 2050. that requires tightening the emission reduction obligation for 2030 to at least 55% of the 1990 levels. the eu emissions trading system (ets) is the most cost-efficient way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. finland aims to renew the system so that the price of the emission allowances guides operators towards emission reductions more quickly and efficiently. we have proposed that new sectors, such as heating and cooling of buildings, be integrated into the ets. furthermore, we have accelerated the transition towards a circular economy and the bio-economy. the bio-economy action plan should be implemented without delay. as a small detail, my government decided not to give any eu presidency gifts: instead we used the money to offset the emissions caused by air travel during the presidency. (applause) second, we need to increase carbon sinks. we have four billion hectares of forest and five billion hectares of fields. it has surprised me to learn how much more agricultural fields could bind co2 if we made some changes in farming practices. we have 100 so-called carbon farmers testing new practices in finland. oceans and carbonate minerals too can lock down carbon dioxide, and we also need to plant more forests. in africa alone, two million hectares of forest are lost every year. that is equivalent to slovenia’s total land area. as the un food and agriculture organisation’s report on the state of the world’s forests says, the world response to climate change must focus more on forest. one concrete step we should take in relation to the eu’s external funding is to increase global carbon sinks. finland has proposed an eu-african forest fund. forest investments would maximise the impact on climate and rural jobs in africa. third, new technology must be adapted. even now, we have the technical capacity to capture co2 from the air and convert it into other products. the eu needs to invest in research and development and to exploit the huge potential of science, technology and innovation in this area more effectively. we also have to think of innovative ways – new incentives and market driven methods – to ensure carbon sinks will be increased. my strong message is that we have to do more and faster. we must reduce emissions, increase carbon sinks and adapt new technologies to capture co2 from the air or directly from the emission sources. fellow europeans, after the european parliament elections, the european council needs to agree on an ambitious and comprehensive agenda. besides climate change, our focus should be on growth and security, while rule-of-law issues will also remain central. this is my call for a more united european union, capable of concrete action and implementation, and of bearing responsibility. this means responsibility for ourselves, for people and their surroundings close to us, for the economy and for the planet. let’s remember that we are all here to safeguard a better future for youth and the generations to come. for our sake and for our common future, we all need a determined, efficient and united european union. i cannot highlight more the importance of getting things done. that is why i have underlined the word ‘implementation’ in this speech so many times. the democratic forces of europe will win back the trust of the people by making decisions and implementing them, at home and also here in brussels. (applause)
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, jyrki and i are delighted to be here with the finnish prime minister, my friend juha. finland became a member of the european union in 1995. it was a coincidence that i became prime minister on the same day, and since then, europe has sometimes worked. i have always noted that finland, from the first day of its accession, behaved as a founding member state, as if it had always been there, and some of the founding member states would do well to follow its example and adopt the same behaviour. (applause) i would like to thank finland has always been a great listener since joining the eu. finland and its governments are good listeners, and finland hears what it hears and translates into policies what it has learned from listening to others. this has been the case with all prime ministers. i started with paavo lipponen, i was with my friend jyrki, i'm with you now, and i'll see paavo tonight. today is a finnish day. three prime ministers addressing the commission is rare, but it is useful. the third finnish presidency is on the horizon, and it will be a special presidency since it will take place after the european elections, before the appointment of new commission and council presidents, before the appointment of the president of the central bank, and it will therefore be a period that will require a lot of tact when it comes to presiding over the european union, as finland did during its first two presidencies. when it comes to relations between finland and the commission, the relations could not be better. we are working in full confidence. that was the case when we were establishing the security and defence mechanism. that is the case when it comes to energy and climate, and this is the case when it comes to developing connectivity infrastructure in the border region of finland. i would like to make use of the finnish presidency on behalf of the commission to develop the arctic dimension. this is an important issue because the arctic region is warming at twice the global average rate of temperature increase. finland is currently holding the presidency of the arctic council. i was discussing with my friend juha when i was in finland in november the idea of calling during the finnish presidency a summit of the arctic council because i think that we have to make sure that the arctic region is moving to the top of the european agenda. but the finnish presidency must also listen to the old ones. i would have liked that would have been my wish that we continue during the finnish presidency in the matter of deepening economic and monetary union, completing banking union and putting capital market union on a final path. in the centre of this, was the medium-term financial planning. this is a hartes stück arbeit, this is a bohren dicker bretter. and the finnish presidency can fully rely on the commission to make the progress it needs to make during the finnish presidency so that we can reach a conclusion at the european council in october this year. we must bring this medium-term financial framework under the roof this year. otherwise we lose valuable time which we need to design, develop and implement the programme. i would also be grateful to the finnish presidency if it would make the commission's proposals on the multiannual financial framework, but also on the deepening of economic and monetary union, an instrument for strengthening structural reforms and a stabilisation instrument to make the european economic and monetary union resistant to external shocks. the european council has approached this issue with the utmost caution. but people are waiting for us to make the economic and monetary union so good that they can react better to the next crisis than to the last crisis of the fall war. and then i would also like to thank the finnish government for being one of those who in europe has paid the greatest attention to jyrki and von mir's investment plan. to date, eight billion euros in investments have been implemented in finland under this plan. it would be good if everyone else dies so soon. i wish to say, juha, all the best for april, all the best for the finnish council presidency. keep it up! (beifall)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to welcome prime minister sipilä to the european parliament. prime minister, you are here at a crucial moment in time. the people have the say for the future of your country in april, and europe in may, so it is a democratic competition in the next weeks ahead of us. i start with this because your capital, helsinki, is for my party, for the european people’s party (epp), and also for myself, a special place of democracy. we had our congress there when i was nominated as candidate for my party and practised there what people expect from us – to have competition, to have lively discussions about the future, to present candidates, and then people can choose. people decide about the future, in which direction we should go. the principles of nationalism and european democracy will be at the centre of developments in the upcoming months. i want to share some points you mentioned in your speech; some considerations on this. first, from the epp point of view, i fully support what you said on financial discipline. it sounds technical, it sounds market—orientated, it sounds euro—business orientated. but it is absolutely in the interests of our children. sustainability is the key word when we talk about financial discipline, and the eu will always have the epp on a national level, and on a european level with us as the epp, and jyrki is also working on this on your side. then it is about this sustainability, because that means future. the second point i want to mention is an answer to your speeches about the multiannual financial framework (mff). there, let me be a little bit critical because you started in your paragraph on speaking about the mff, you started with saying first of all the amount of money must be fixed. that is what we always hear from the national leaders. i think that’s the wrong question. a good question is: what are the tasks ahead of us? what is the demand we have in the european union? because we hear from a lot of leaders that say we should fix the money but then additionally we need a strong border control, we have to do something on cybersecurity and we have to build up more innovation in the european union. so if this is a demand for europe, then the member states must also be fair with the contribution to the budget. then we have to put the money on the table we need for giving an answer on the demands on the table. so the starting point is to speak about the demands. the third point i want to mention in my short contribution today is about, probably the most challenging for all of us, and is what 35 000 school kids told us when there was demonstrating in the last weeks in europe – pope francis is calling it the illness of the earth – and that is climate change. thank you for your statement on this specific point. i want to only underline the approach towards the climate change challenge, some of the principles we, as the epp, believe in. one principle is that the solution on climate change, to give an answer is not to forbid things, is not to prohibit things, is not to ban things. it’s not to say to the citizen that they cannot go any more on their holidays to majorca because the co2 footprint is too intense. that’s not our answer. our answer is that in the future people will fly to majorca in a clean airplane. innovation is the key to give an answer on this. that is what we have to do. we cannot say to the developing countries or to the emerging economies in the world that they have to stop to grow. that they cannot develop anymore. that is not the answer. the answer is that we as europeans can provide the developing countries with the technologies to have growth without climate impact. that is our answer. so innovation is, for us, a key principle. the second point i want to underline in the co2 field is that we have to do it together with the people. the people must follow the changes. in the car industry we have a lot of people who are concerned about the changes. you see the demonstrations of the yellow vests in france, for example. a lot of people here in this room can finance higher energy prices, but outside there are a lot of people who cannot finance higher energy prices. so we have to do the changes in a way that people accept the changes and follow our approach. we have to create winners and not losers in this regard. finally on co2 and climate change: together, we are strong. we made the paris agreement possible. we made the steps already with the co2 car emission reduction for example. we are ambitious. we are the owner of this fight against co2 on a global level and we can show to our citizens that together we can achieve a lot.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, prime minister i wish to thank you very much for joining in this debate on the future of europe. and while we’re speaking, there are tens of thousands of school students outside in the streets here in brussels. they’ve also been marching in finland. and they show us what really matters – to put people and planet before profit. we should really take them seriously. so i want to ask you today prime minister to commit to the future, to listen to those young people and to invest in the future when it comes to climate protection, to education and to working together as europeans. on climate protection, the eu has a huge responsibility and every member state has to play its role. i’m very happy that you mentioned that you are very committed to that – that you want to go ahead; that you want to have more ambitious climate targets, fantastic! and you’ve mentioned the important role of carbon sinks as well, and finland is in the lucky position to have a very large carbon sink at hand. the beautiful finnish forests are an important natural heritage for your country and also largely due to its forests finland has become the welfare state that it is today. but they are also an important factor indeed in the eu climate policy. the finnish forests capture 27 million tonnes of co2 equivalent per year. so it is in our common interest to preserve them, and to manage them sustainably but different from what you said – your government actually plans logging of the finnish forests, which are not sustainable, which are absolutely excessive, and they will put the huge asset that you have in fighting the climate crisis at risk. so i hope that after your very good speech today, your government will reverse that position to save the great natural heritage that you have, but also to preserve the carbon sinks, because if we wanted to achieve a net zero carbon economy in europe by 2050 then we need more forests and not less. and rather than telling other countries that they should grow more forests, it is important that we do something in order to keep our own forests. so i’m very happy that you’ve mentioned that you want to have more ambitious targets. we are very much on your side and i am glad to see that you’ve been doing that in the nordic council but i hope that you can also bring that to the eu council, to your fellow prime ministers, to make sure that this goes ahead in europe. that would be an efficient implementation. and the young people that i’ve mentioned – they are also the ones that will run our countries, societies, economies, in the member states, in the eu, in the not too distant future and i think it is better sooner than later. and education is a big part of preparing them for the task, and finland is famous for its education system. everyone came to finland to copy finland’s famous school system. but i am sad to see that the current government has been ready to give up its position by cutting almost eur 1 billion from educational research. but we need more investment into the future, not less. this is also something that we need to talk about, when it comes to the mff at european level. the european union must strengthen the social cohesion in europe and contribute to the welfare of all its citizens and not just those who have good connections to state or businesses. so we need to invest in that. we need to invest in the future and there are so many more tasks that the european union is given all the time and for that we need adequate resources. so we will not accept a shrinking budget and the finnish presidency will be key in order to ensure sufficient finances for the european union because only then it can efficiently implement its tasks. mr prime minister you also said in your speech how important common values, our rule of law and a united europe are and you’ve mentioned the danger of populism. i very much agree with that. however, you have experience in working together with a right-wing populist party – this is news to some of your former allies – and i think you’re fully aware of the common challenges that our continent is currently facing. nationalists and far right movements all across europe are gaining support by spreading fear and disinformation and pro-european speeches are wonderful; we need them; they’re necessary. but it is by our actions that we truly show where our heart stands and how much our words mean. that’s where we show that we are serious, that we are committed to building that better future together. as finland’s eu presidency takes place this summer, i hope to see that your country will then be on the progressive side leading the way forward for a united, fair and climate-friendly european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. dear prime minister, for over a year, your government, along with france and eight other countries, has been blocking any progress in the fight against the export of surveillance technology to dictatorships. last year your government, along with the others, took a position against the protection of human rights in the dual-use regulation. we in the european parliament, on the other hand, have delivered a proposal with over 92% support and together with the commission to protect human rights. you will be the next president of the council. the council has been completely irresponsible so far, while journalists and human rights defenders are being imprisoned and killed all over the world with our european technology. i hope you take your responsibility seriously and change that.
i have to say, madam president, the colleague will have to apologize for the accusations one day. secondly, i know that was in response to my brexit speech yesterday. that's always the thing: when it gets uncomfortable, someone gets personally defamed. i believe that i will never betray the interests of ireland and the european union to such people from whom it would be morally irresponsible to accept money.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not thank you very much for your time. you just said it right: the point is that a request for an oral answer is on the table on the subject of 'large predators' and that a resolution is to be adopted. i would like to emphasize again that this subject has not been discussed before in the committee on agriculture. this is not a normal procedure. i have to be very clear. the commission has not been able to reach a decision on the text of the amendments. at the moment it has been proposed that the request for an oral answer be tabled this evening and that the resolution be adopted on thursday. i would ask that the request for an oral reply be replaced by an opinion from the commission and that the resolution be postponed until march. i think we have enough time to do this in the right way with the right, proper procedure. it is not necessary to refer to a rapid procedure which is not justified in any way.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we would like to ask that the oral question on the future of the lgbti list of actions be added to the already existing debate on the oral question on the rights of intersex people and we would like to conclude that debate with a resolution. we would like to also ask for a roll-call vote right now. the reason we are asking for that debate and the resolution is because we see how attacks on lgbti people are increasing all over europe. we see a real setback and a backlash here, and the commission needs to stand firmly on that matter. however, the list of actions on lgbti rights by the commission is actually running out. it expires this year and the commission is actually reluctant to continue having a list of actions. this is our last chance as parliament to push the commission to act and to do something, because lgbti rights are human rights and that’s why we should have a debate with resolution.
member of the commission. – mr president, mr salafranca, as rapporteur, honourable members, i am replacing commissioner oettinger today, and i am grateful that i can participate in this debate on the proposal for a regulation establishing the eu anti-fraud programme. the commission and parliament agree on the paramount importance of protecting the eu financial interests from fraud, corruption and irregularities. these must be effectively and efficiently prevented, detected and tackled at eu and member state level. the eu institutions have deployed significant efforts to fight against fraud in recent years, for example with the adoption of the new directive on the protection of the eu financial interests through criminal law (pif directive) and the establishment of the european public prosecutor’s office. the proposed eu anti-fraud programme, despite its relatively small size, fits perfectly into this picture. it combines the longstanding hercule programme, which has successfully supported the fight against fraud since 2004, with two long-established operational activities performed by the commission (olaf – the european anti-fraud office) in the anti-fraud area. the first is the anti-fraud information system, a set of it tools supporting member states’ customs authorities in mutual administrative assistance between national authorities and the commission. the second is the irregularity management system that provides an it platform for the member states to report fraud and irregularities affecting the eu budget. the main novelty of the eu anti-fraud programme is to combine these three strands of work, on a single legal basis, in order to provide for synergies and flexibility among them. the commission wishes to thank mr salafranca for his report, which acknowledges the importance and the relevance of the proposal. the commission takes note of the report’s proposal significantly to increase the financial envelope for the programme, and we interpret that as recognition of the success of the current programme. the amount for the programme will need to be discussed further in the context of the general negotiations on the multiannual financial framework (mff). the commission has chosen to table light-touch basic acts for its proposals for spending programmes in the next mff cycle in order to achieve a high degree of flexibility, thus allowing the programmes to adapt better to new and unforeseen needs during the seven years of the next mff. this is why the commission has chosen, for instance, not to set up co-financing rates for grants in the proposal itself, or to fix only indicative amounts for each of the three pillars of the programme. we ask you to consider carefully the amendments that would deprive the future programme of these elements of flexibility, in particular at a time when there are significant developments in the anti-fraud area, such as the creation of the european public prosecutor, which might call for adaptation over time of the activities that the programme supports. this applies also to the adoption of the work programmes, which will become the main tool for programme delivery. these are mere acts of implementation, which do not amend or supplement the legal framework and therefore do not need to be adopted by means of delegated acts. i am confident that the next phase of the procedure will bring parliament, the council and the commission together in a common effort to deliver a new legal act constituting the basis for a modern, flexible, reliable and effective instrument to fight fraud against the eu budget. the commission wishes to stress that we very much appreciate parliament’s interest in discussing the results of the hercule programme every year. we hope that it will continue this dialogue on the new anti-fraud programme. i thank you for your kind attention and i look forward to a constructive debate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. mr salafranca, thank you for your work. we are dealing today with a small but fine programme of only 181 million euros for seven years. that means that we cannot have high hopes that we will achieve much there. and, commissioner: flexibility to and fro. i do not want 'hercule' to become a travel programme for all those who work in the fight against fraud and want to exchange information occasionally. we are in danger. i personally think that the cofinancing levels not proposed are a mistake. so, thank you for putting that in. i think we must show how much the european union is prepared to give to the member states to fulfil the european legal framework, the common commitment of what must be done at the external border, for example in the customs area. i'm not going to tell you. i should like to point out at once that the committee on budgetary control has dealt in detail with what has actually become of the hardware financed in the past. and here we can already say that we are not very good at this long-term monitoring of this hardware - because the scanners that the eu has procured for the member states to combat tobacco smuggling are not very good. i would therefore like to ask the commission to take a more active interest in this matter. i believe that the amendments which have been tabled, namely that we are trying to avoid overlaps and to combat the lack of synergy in promoting the same or similar measures, that we need a clear added value for this programme and that we need cofinancing rates, that the monitoring role of the european parliament has been strengthened: these are very important things to give this programme efficiency and credibility.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to make a few comments on the bresso and spinelli reports in particular. i would like to thank mrs bresso for her good cooperation and i believe that we are making progress here in the development of our joint report from last year, in order to strengthen the rights of the european parliament as a whole, but also the necessary institutional projects to take us forward. let me make one point specifically, which is the top candidate process that is being addressed here again. this will be the key question for this house. everyone must be aware of this. in future, will the voters decide who will be president of the commission, who will be president of the european executive, or will this be done in the back room? and that can only happen once the council accepts what is in the treaty. it can only make a proposal in the light of the outcome of the european elections and after consulting the european parliament. and this european parliament must be able to find a majority for a candidate to make a proposal. this is a crucial question and does this house have the power to do this? i think we should support our leading candidates, no matter what party, to campaign in this way. and to mrs spinelli, we have been very active in promoting this charter of fundamental rights. but this is not a question of political implementation. a charter of fundamental rights is designed to check whether legislation is in line with these fundamental rights. and if it does not have that level of fundamental rights, then you can take it to the european court of justice to do that. that is the crucial question. it is not a point-by-point programme to make this into legislation. i think we need to learn that if we're going to make any progress here.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, this joint debate covers several important themes dedicated to the current and future shaping of european integration. the functioning of the eu, serving the interests and the daily problems of people in all the 28 member states of the european union is in focus, and here we have the red line between fundamental rights to political control over the commission. and indeed, colleague bresso, the council should not be left out. thanks to the rapporteurs for their input, ideas and to all colleagues working on them. let me stress one central challenge to all these various themes and, in particular, those reports dedicated to future development on enhanced cooperation, as well as the one increasing the control of commission. we have not only to underpin our ambition to give a strong statement that this parliament wants to be a greater player in the european union political framework. thus i call on parliament to take the opportunity of the new term and the incoming commission to make full use of its prerogatives and tools to strengthen its position as a major player for the next five years. including a stronger political will to use existing tools can significantly enhance parliament’s weight and role vis-à-vis the commission.
the commission has already done so. the charter is undoubtedly the heart of the european union. it summarises and guarantees all the civil, political, economic and social rights of european citizens vis-à-vis the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the union and binds the member states in the implementation of union law. i thank mrs spinelli for her comprehensive report. it not only underlines the charter's outstanding importance for citizens, but also stresses that all the union's institutions are called upon to ensure respect for fundamental rights in all areas of union activity. this includes strengthening the key role of the fundamental rights agency and making better use of its expertise. the report calls for the agency's regulation to be revised to allow it to deliver opinions on eu legislation on its own initiative. this includes the fact that the union is bound by the treaties to accede to the european convention on human rights. the ecj gave an opinion on this four years ago, which shows the difficulties in this respect. the commission is called upon to come up with constructive solutions to overcome the legal obstacles to this accession. i hope that this will be tackled soon.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. to return briefly to my predecessor, the fact that the implementation of fundamental rights - which are valid anyway - is intended to protect against attacks by the institutions will have to be demonstrated. i have my doubts that this will work better in the future than in the past, especially since the rule of law in the european union is a rather questionable issue, after what has happened here in recent years. but much more interesting is the question whether within this european union - in this state - there can really be such a thing as european citizens - who think european - within a european nation state. i'm sure that's a dream that many people have. i can even relate to it, but it has nothing to do with the reality in the nation states, and it has nothing to do with the reality of the state of this european union during the brexit chaos.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the right to freedom of expression and the right to express one's opinion in the streets, including in demonstrations, are essential fundamental rights of all european citizens. i grew up in the so-called real socialism of the gdr and i know what it means when these freedoms are denied, when people are silenced, when they are persecuted or even sentenced to prison for their opinions. the right to freedom of expression is a very high value. and it is not enough to say that in our united europe it is fully guaranteed. i am even more disturbed by the images of demonstrations in which violence is escalating. the breaking of windows, the deliberate wounding of police officers, the burning of cars and the wanton destruction of our streets and squares are unacceptable. the right to freedom of expression is not a threat to public order and security. on the other hand, the police must also ensure that they always use the resources and measures in a proportionate way and that their actions do not contribute to the disruption of initially peaceful demonstrations. if there is a disproportionate use of police forces - which we have unfortunately seen on several occasions - it must be fully investigated. the right to peaceful protest must be guaranteed at all times.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. we have discussed the 'big predators' issue on several occasions in both the committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment. but the people in the wolf-infested areas expect concrete action from the politicians. the study presented to the committee on agriculture shows that there are some 17 000 wolves in europe. without regulation, as in germany, for example, stocks double every three years. that means that by the end of 2019, we'll have 34,000 wolves. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's fisheries policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new species. we have finally reached the point where flexible management, adapted to the real situation, must be made possible. we need to adapt the fifg directive accordingly in the early stages. the overprotection of a single large predator must not override the equal protection of many other species. it is not only grazing livestock farmers who are now fully justified in calling for more action. in the swiss canton of uri, a popular initiative to regulate large carnivores was approved yesterday by 70%. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in particular, in sensitive areas of high biodiversity, such as the alpine regions, the preservation of grazing livestock must take precedence over the presence of large predators. so we need wolf-free areas.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it is undeniable that large predators are indeed a threat to grazing animals. there is a potential for conflict between farmers and the protection of these wildlife species. but natura 2000 already provides the flexibility for these situations. article 16 (1) of the directive states that member states may derogate from the provisions of article 12, which prohibits the killing of protected species, for example to prevent serious damage to crops and livestock or for other overriding reasons of overriding public interest, including social and economic ones. so it is a question of better organising the coexistence between nature conservation and agriculture. it is about not leaving the farmers to their problems, taking preventive measures, proper wildlife management and full, unbureaucratic compensation - commissioner vella, you said it. it is not appropriate to re-launch the directive for that purpose. we just have to put them into practice.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, i would like to thank you, mrs gardini, and all the colleagues from parliament, the commission and the council who have worked closely together to draw up these interinstitutional agreements which meet all our requirements. resceu will enable member states to request specific types of rescue services if their own resources are exhausted, as was the case for example with the wildfires last summer. i hope that by this summer we will have special firefighting aircraft to fight the fires that are very likely to occur and will occur. i think that we have achieved a level of cooperation that has rarely been seen before, that disaster prevention is a matter of best practice and that we have a responsibility - as europe in a special way - also on a global scale.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not commissioner, thank you very much, i can only support your paper. i like the greatest tenor in this report very much. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i myself have just had one of these courses in december, although i have three or four others on my farm who have done the same. so training on this issue is extremely important. you also mentioned the further development of plant protection techniques. as a practical farmer, i can only recommend this. i would also like to thank the rapporteur. she's put a lot of heart blood in there and she's also been a little off the grid here and there. so we're debating the sustainable use of pesticides. we are not talking about gap here, and we are not talking about groundwater pollution here. but if you want to talk to me about groundwater pollution, you're welcome to. i'm telling you, as long as you all want to buy cheap meat, and i want to buy cheap meat, you shouldn't be surprised that the facts are quite simple. my father's farm had 80 pigs, mine 800, and my neighbor's -- the next generation -- 3,000. if you call that sustainability, we're not on a course. otherwise, commissioner, good luck and please stick to the neonicotinoids. we banned them, and that's that. if we now get 20 exemptions approved by you, those countries that ban neonicotinoids will get leather shoes on their feet, and the others will run with sneakers through this competition. i can't accept that.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think the very name of this report is misleading: there is no sustainable use of pesticides. what we have to deal with is an exit scenario for pesticides. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the member states should already be providing plans for reducing pesticides. did something happen? i'm not sure. quite the opposite. only two member states are actually reporting and making reduction plans. what are the member states doing instead? the honourable member has mentioned it: neonicotinoids are used in a number of member states, despite a european ban. this is untenable. this is the scandal, and i have to say: is this legislation worth anything at all if there are member states that simply ignore it? we still have a discussion about glyphosate and we will continue to have it. what are the implications of this? yes, it should be reduced but the use of glyphosate is still increasing in some member states, despite the availability of alternatives. organic farming pretends to be without chemicals. glyphosate, for example, is disposable. we'd have to resort to mechanical methods. we need to make decent fruit sequences. that would be a solution. but it is not being done because on the other side there are, of course, powerful interests, an industry that wants to continue to sell pesticides and make very good business out of it. you have to say that out loud. yesterday, another study was published that shows that the decline in species is really dramatic. there is no time left to think about whether we are going to go down a little bit somewhere. no, we have to get out. we can't wait for more than 70 percent of the insects to disappear. this is an ecological disaster that's happening out there. the european union must give answers and unfortunately it does not. so we don't have to talk about the little things, about precision farming; that's not the answer. this is basically a slightly better technique. we really need to think about how we can get out of this pesticide trap in agriculture - for the benefit of the environment, for the benefit of consumers, but also for the benefit of farmers.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. a reliable authorisation procedure and the sustainable use of plant protection products go hand in hand. after launching the special report on the authorisation procedure earlier this year, we are now taking another step towards more sustainable use. i grew up on a farm myself, and i have used pesticides, so i know how important it is to use them properly. i am convinced that the responsible use of plant protection products must be the standard. the magic word here is innovation. new, more efficient and less risky substances and products will promote the sustainable use of plant protection products. training is the second key. our farmers must know what they are doing and how they are doing it. at the same time, private use should be restricted. i don't see it being used just so the landlord next door can have an english lawn without much effort. i don't think it has to be. and unlike mr häusling, i believe that digitisation and technologisation will benefit agriculture and also lead to lower consumption. unfortunately, mr häusling does not talk much about the fact that the ecological farming industry also has problems, for example the use of copper in ecological farming, and that we still have much lower yields in ecological farming. so it is also about food security for the population. we must keep that in mind. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much. that wasn't really a question, it was more of a comment. i think we always have to distinguish between what we use and how we use it. the principle is always the same: the dose makes the poison. there's a huge difference between talking about neonicotinoids and talking about glyphosate, talking about insecticides, herbicides, fungicides. you have to make a distinction. i have the impression that not all colleagues are always looking at this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. integrated pest management is essential for sustainable agriculture and needs to be better implemented in the member states. the report is a good and correct signal. something's bothering me. the method has become established of using a single study to blame agriculture for the decline of insects. this is not the standard of our house of lords. i would ask my colleagues to stick to the facts here. the fact is that in this collaborative study, which had 63 measurements over a period of 27 years, only 37 were measured once and 20 were measured twice. the statistical relevance of the study is therefore very questionable. it is also a fact that agricultural practices are mentioned as only one possible cause among others. this is a cause for concern, and more research is urgently needed. i believe that this collective task of species conservation must be done by all. it starts with individuals, for example, with a flowering meadow instead of a simple rock garden.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr belet, for his very good cooperation. i think we can all agree on the aim of this dossier: the well-being of european patients is paramount, and we want people to be able to seek treatment across borders. unfortunately, the review of the current implementation has shown that cross-border supply is still not functioning properly. the aim of the crossborder healthcare legislation was to ensure that patients have access to high-quality and safe crossborder healthcare and that the cost of treatment is then easily reimbursed. it is therefore disturbing and hardly worth explaining to any citizen that 26 of the 28 member states were so slow to implement that the european commission had to open infringement proceedings. according to the eurobarometer of may 2015, more than 20% of citizens were not aware that they had the possibility to receive treatment across borders. two years after the directive came into force, almost no one knew their rights. but knowing your rights is the prerequisite for being able to exercise them. in the field of health, the information needs are complex and the current level is, frankly, not satisfactory. the national contact points in particular play a very important role in this respect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. a broad information campaign through the national contact points is therefore necessary for citizens. the right to receive accurate information is a basic prerequisite for the exercise of his rights. the report rightly calls for this. we also need more transparency and clarity for service providers in the interests of consumer protection. the health services offered and reimbursed must be clearly identified. the commission report also showed that there is still considerable scope for improvement in the refund procedures. let me say one last thing: it is important for my group that we include vaccination in the scope of application. the number of people who are resistant to vaccination is increasing, and diseases that could have been eradicated are coming back. that is a risk we should no longer accept. and that is why we should also supplement the report in this area.
madam president, dear colleagues, the implementation report shows that there has been a lot of progress in cross-border healthcare services. within europe, we can control its legacy. in cases of certain rare diseases, cross-border care is most appropriate and therefore should be promoted, with no bureaucracy against health rights. therefore the international contact point is a vital item to inform citizens about their rights to cross-border health services under the directive. the commission should start an information campaign to inform citizens about the existence of the national contact points. these should also be improved with more relevant information. the commission should develop a template for the national contact points of the kinds of information that are most useful to our citizens who want to avail of cross-border healthcare.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. when someone has a birthday or a new year's day, what do we wish them? we wish you health above all. this is why health should be more at the centre of policy - including eu policy where we have competence. but these are a lot of areas where we're responsible. the epp considers this a key issue. we have recently, at the instigation of our chairman, manfred weber, prepared a paper on the fight against cancer. there's also a very personal reason why this is so important to us. in this paper we are saying on the one hand that we want to do everything in our power so that in 20 years' time no one in europe has to die from this terrible disease. we've listed a lot of points. i would also like to thank the commission for making childhood cancer a mission in the horizon europe research framework programme, for example. but we also say: we want to implement the directive on patients' rights better. i would therefore like to thank mr belet, who drew up this report. i hope that we shall get a very large majority in the plenary for this report. the member states must stop thinking in the short term, always from the purse, and put the patient at the centre of the implementation of this directive. the report is the right wake-up call to the member states in the interests of patients.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. there's a reason we have very, very strict rules about drinking water. i don't think you need the same strict rules for all the applications you need water for. so it makes sense that we have a graded option here. water scarcity is not just an issue in southern europe. i come from a place where it usually rains a lot. and there's a funny saying: if you don't want to get sunburned on your vacation, go to the sauerland because there's more rain than sunshine. we are the water reservoir for the ruhr area: eight million inhabitants are supplied with water from my area. but this year we had such a dry summer that the dams we have there were practically empty. that is to say, the member states and regions who say that water scarcity will never be a problem and that is why we do not need any regulation here should be a little careful. we're in the midst of climate change, and you can imagine that we might be treating this precious resource even more carefully. i therefore believe that the text adopted by the committee is the right approach. the epp would like to see a directive not a regulation to allow a little more flexibility in responding to the wishes of the member states. but it is good that we have different restrictions - strict, reasonable restrictions - on water used for irrigation, for example, but not necessarily the same as for drinking water. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in syria (2019/2535 ((rsp)).
i have to say, madam president, the situation in northern syria remains threatening. firstly, turkey has repeatedly threatened to take military action against the kurdish fighters in the rojava region. the syrian government also wants to regain control of the entire country. this also applies to idlib province, where some three million civilians live and where numerous armed groups are active. it is essential to prevent any military advance into the north by turkish or syrian troops and their allies. the european diplomacy must continue to work for the resumption of peace negotiations between turkey and the pkk. the brussels donors' conference on syria must include appropriate representation of syrian civil society. and refugees from syria must continue to be able to find protection through more generous settlement programmes and legal and safe pathways to europe.
just to be clear: if you want to register for the catch the eye, please do not use the blue card, but a white sheet or your hand, otherwise we believe that a question will be registered under the 'blue card' procedure.
now we come to the spontaneous word messages. i have the problem that i have very, very, very many messages. i will not be able to get all of you to speak - that is simply not possible. so i'm looking at my watch now, and it's 3:54 p.m., and i'm going to stop at 4:00 p.m. that is to say, if you are not available, then perhaps the speakers are responsible for this, because they may have overstated their message. i remind you, you have one minute. spontaneous speech
i shall now interrupt the list of speakers who have spoken spontaneously, as announced. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the report of mr cristian dan preda, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the 2018 commission report on bosnia and herzegovina (2018/2148 (ini)) (a8-0467/2018).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, on behalf of mr papadakis, who cannot be here today, i would like to thank mr preda for his good work. the report is quite complete, very detailed and shows the real situation as we see it. the road to the european union is open for bosnia and herzegovina. i would like to make it clear that we social democrats also want bosnia and herzegovina to find this path to the eu. and just because we want to and out of sympathy for the people in the country i want to note a few critical sentences. we want the necessary reform processes in the country to proceed faster and better. the process of reconciliation has not yet been pursued with sufficient vigour. there is still too much dividing and too little unity in the country, and the rulers are still not making any effort to bury the dividing. the dayton agreement was a great effort and a great achievement in ending the war, but it is quite obvious that it does not help to establish a common state. we therefore believe that an initiative for a dayton ii must come from brussels. every time i go to the country, i get the impression that more and more people are yearning for togetherness and the politicians responsible are lagging behind this development. the leaders of bosnia and herzegovina will one day have to face the people and explain why they are hanging on to old national feelings instead of bringing a modern new bosnia closer to the eu.
president of the council of ministers of the italian republic. mr president, mr vice-president katainen, ladies and gentlemen, it is a real honour for me to be here today, and i say this with sincere feeling, to outline and foreshadow the future of europe in accordance with the guidelines of the italian government. i am thinking of the commitment to the future of our continent, and i would first like to express a moving remembrance of antonio megalizzi, an italian who said he was in love with the european union, and who, as you know, fell victim here in strasbourg two months ago to the barbarity of terrorism. in a globalised world, where the economy seems to have taken precedence over politics and law, and where the weight of an economic choice made at a distance can have serious repercussions on our citizens, we must ask ourselves what role the european union is to play, what role it can play, given that the national states, and therefore the member states themselves, are not able to respond to complex global challenges on their own. the common european building is going through - we must all recognize this - a particularly critical phase. the european project seems to have lost its driving force. the complex historical situation facing us, the representatives of the institutions, challenges us, in the context of our respective roles and responsibilities, to tackle issues of crucial importance. as others before us have done at such critical junctures, we are called upon to make a joint effort, fuelled by a great sense of responsibility. we have a duty to revive the european project, to restore its credibility and cohesion, so that it can become more sustainable, more effective and more plausible. the challenges of our time are new and complex, they require vision and, if i may say so, a certain amount of creativity, but above all they require an awareness of our mission in the world. the big questions that we're all called to answer are questions of meaning. what kind of europe do we want? what kind of europe do we need? how do we perceive ourselves and how do we represent ourselves? these are questions that challenge our consciences and deserve the utmost consideration and authenticity of answers. because we are sitting in the european parliament, directly elected by the citizens of the union, the real and substantial depository of european sovereignty. we are we should be first of all a people: the people of europe. the progressive progress in the integration process has really made us a people, a community of destiny, beyond any legal fiction? the process of defining and building a european people has certainly experienced significant moments of progress. the history of modern and contemporary europe has been marked by deep divisions, by lacerations and contrasts, which have defined and forged an articulated populism that is very rich in languages, cultural identities and traditions. however, these societies have suffered irreversible and fruitful cultural, legal and social contamination. we have increasingly integrated our economic systems, our educational models and our social legislation, ceding sovereign spaces and transferring increasingly important competences from the states to the union. we have allowed citizens of the various member states to move freely within the european territory, conceived as a single legal area. the free movement of people, even more than the free movement of goods and capital, was one of the most significant achievements in the process of european integration, if one only considers the burden of nationalistic hatred and identity retreat that had crossed the continent between the end of the nineteenth century and the first half of the twentieth century, and which was dramatically unleashed in the two world wars. europeans, especially the younger generation, do not want to give up this fundamental freedom of movement, which has enabled them to accumulate their wealth of human, cultural and professional experience to such a significant extent and with a naturalness unknown to previous generations, and to accept national specificities more and more as expressions of the same sensibilities, as different ways of participating in a common feeling. the process of creating a european people has also been strongly fuelled by the legal dimension. the mature fruit of a centuries-long process of civilization, legal culture has in recent years assumed a decisive role in creating an idem sentir and even favouring the formation of a european demos. the european court of human rights and the court of justice, each acting within its own area of competence, and the national constitutional courts, in close cooperation, have played a key role in this respect. this has led to the creation of a european legal area in which citizens can be recognised and protected through a sophisticated and well-developed multi-level system of protection of fundamental human rights, based on a shared heritage of constitutional traditions. this advanced and articulated system of judicial protection, which is now, i would say, indelibly inscribed in the legal heritage of the union, is a conquest of civilization which must be defended and preserved, precisely because of the virtuous effects it is likely to produce in the collective imagination of the european citizen, by fostering the awareness of being part of a shared destiny, of belonging to a people in the sense of a community participating in the same fruitful process of civilization. despite all this, however, we have not yet succeeded in becoming a truly and fully fledged people. we have not had the courage to build an inclusive model that, realistically, beyond all rhetoric, favours the creation of a european demos. especially since 1989 - there are a few exceptions, for the love of money - there has been no genuinely political vision of the european union, no long-term, forward-looking perspective without which any project would be doomed, any dream would be lost, and the ordinary administration would be overwhelmed. the prophetic momentum was lacking, but the great statesmen of the post-war era were aware of it. to compound this lack of foresight, over the past three decades european governance has become strongly anchored in the purely economic dimension, in a perspective uniquely oriented towards the implementation of liberal policies, aimed at fostering privatisations of essential services and goods, reduction of regulation in vital economic sectors, contraction of social support and welfare policies, which have increased inequalities in wealth and opportunities overall. especially as the economic crisis deepened, european governance supported policies of austerity, aimed exclusively at keeping sovereign debts within precise parameters and keeping the inflation rate of the common currency as low as possible, even in the face of a very sharp contraction in consumption, with devastating effects on the social level. european politics, faced with an unprecedented economic crisis, has retreated, frightened, beyond the cold grammar of procedures, and ended up gradually losing contact with its people and making the distance, which is not only geographical, between brussels and the many peripheries of the continent increasingly insurmountable. politics has progressively and inexorably renounced its legitimating and representative function, appearing to the citizens as aloof and oligarchic, incapable of understanding the real needs of the community. it has become - as the political scientist jan zielonka has keenly observed - a ceremonial parameter covering very complex global operations, largely incomprehensible if not secret. the powerful opposition that the european people, in its various forms, are manifesting towards the elites speaks to our consciences: it reminds us that politics, in the service of economic reasons, has failed in its task, has abdicated its mission. we are facing a decisive turning point in the history of a united europe. we are faced with decisions that are fundamental to our future. the european people, who have reappeared with great power on the stage of history, are urgently demanding that they be heard at last, that there be a decisive change in their methods and their outlook. it is an opportunity, i believe, to make up for lost time, to reverse the process of gradual detachment between rulers and ruled, which, if further fuelled by silence, indifference or even an attempt to minimize its impact, can lead to the implosion of the world as we have known it. we must not fear conflict: we must show ourselves capable of governing it. we must not react to change by opposing a sterile, decaying conservatism, all bent on defending the besieged citadel. on the contrary, we must allow conflict to emerge, to manifest its driving force in the form of democracy, to unleash its innovative potential, even at the risk of abandoning certain certainties, of reconsidering the balance of power, development and growth models that have proved inadequate in the face of new challenges, no longer able to withstand the impact of impoverished societies, marked by precariousness and loneliness, by disappointment and resentment, feelings that, if still persistently neglected, can fuel rebellion and dissent from unforeseeable circumstances, as shown by various phenomena taking place in some european countries. the europeanism of the 21st century, in my view, inevitably presupposes a radical rethinking of the forms and institutions which have characterized the history of integration over the last thirty years. they urgently require a genuine conversion which is also, in some respects, a return to the origins, to the fundamental reasons for the european dream. will the europe we envisage be able to express a driving force, not simply a stabilising force, in the interests of its citizens, of the member states, of common interests? geopolitics is changing rapidly and continuously. the new strategic balances are characterized by extreme fluidity, even considering that some major powers, although failing to establish true poles of international attraction, are constantly increasing their capacity for influence. in this context, no single member state can play a significant role on its own. i hope that a united european voice will find a place in the un security council. this is a battle on which the european union must act in a coordinated manner and speak with one voice. the european union must be able to speak to the world. a strong, ambitious and cohesive european union is needed first of all to improve its capacity for dialogue with the united states. as i have said since my first speech to the italian parliament, we strongly believe in the transatlantic relationship with washington: we must continue to work to preserve the strategic value of our relations, in which the things that unite us, above all values and principles, far outweigh any possible differences and misunderstandings. at the same time, a strong europe is needed to give us credibility in the dialogue with the main global stakeholders. russia and china are part of any solution to major international crises, starting with those closest to european borders and interests. i do not see any advantage for the european union in abandoning dialogue with russia and china or in deluding itself that it can pursue isolationist policies against them. we should rather promote their full-scale engagement. but how is this strong europe, which we all share the need for, to be achieved? we must certainly continue on the path of european defence integration, exploiting all the potential of the implementation of permanent and structured cooperation (pesco) and the european defence fund. a common european defence is not only not antithetical to nato membership, but can be a useful complement to it, thus giving concrete proof that the european union remains effective and capable of making progress, including in providing greater security for its citizens. the european union, which aspires to be a global player, cannot ignore the need to maintain close ties with the united kingdom in the field of defence and security, even after brexit. but the essential prerequisite for a strong europe in the world is first of all to ensure its solidarity and cohesion through the collective responsibility of the member states. migration and economic and financial governance are two of the key challenges for the urgent need to restore trust and solidarity in europe. a substantial change of perspective is urgently needed and these principles must not become the subject of divisive dynamics among member states on the major issues that should be an integral part of the daily european debate. the differences, also at bilateral level - and we have seen clear confirmation of this in recent days - are more the effect than the cause of europe's inability to propose solutions. it is this inability, not dissent, that weakens the driving force of the european project. europe has started to look at migration late. it is thanks to italy that the issue of migration has come to the forefront of the european union's agenda. europe cannot continue to deal with migration flows from an emergency perspective, but must rely on a structural approach in order to find stable and effective solutions. i would also like to make a call to this very authoritative house, which i have repeated in every european council, in every informal summit in which i have taken part: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union has a long-term strategy to combat the spread of the disease. a european strategy must give the right priority to the primary movements, with a multi-level approach. otherwise, the secondary movements will never really be under control. those who arrive in a country of landing arrive in europe. aldo moro argued that no one is called upon to choose between being in europe and being in the mediterranean, because all of europe is in the mediterranean. this principle must always be borne in mind, not only in order to put the issue of migration in the right perspective, but also at a time when european security itself is at stake, from support for the political process in libya to european support for africa and the stabilisation of the middle east chessboard. italy, you see, is convinced of the centrality of the mediterranean to the future of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'll be visiting morocco soon. this action is part of italy's overall strategy, which aims to make a consistent and dynamic contribution to the stabilisation of the main crisis areas, in line with the commitment of the un and the european union, in the interest not only of our country but of all europe. europe, looking beyond the mediterranean, must invest politically and financially in cooperation with and for africa, otherwise illegal migration can be temporarily reduced but never eradicated, nor can returns be improved, which require coordinated action by europe and the member states, including through the encouragement of development cooperation and european mutual recognition of decisions in this field. the italian government's commitment to africa is part of this approach, which i myself am pursuing with the utmost conviction. that is why i also went to the horn of africa, a region which we hope will soon be experiencing its spring, and to niger and chad in mid-january. if europe is to be a reference point also in terms of values, it must promote a new approach to africa's problems: the european union must pursue a new model of cooperation based on partnership between equals, in a spirit of increasing opportunities and responsibilities on both sides. we cannot remain indifferent to the fact that the majority of the african population, men, women and children, live in inhumane conditions of poverty despite the considerable natural resources available in their respective territories, nor can we remain indifferent to the fact that much of the wealth generated by the african economy is dispersed among a few thousand offshore companies located in artificial havens or otherwise benefiting foreign investors. i am glad that the priority of cooperation with africa has been recognised by the european commission itself. i thank jean-claude juncker for his strong drive towards this objective, which is so important for our common future. the recognition of this priority must be accompanied by the allocation of adequate financial resources and the development of new forms of intervention. europe must commit itself to drawing up a catalogue of best practices in order to achieve a truly equal and sustainable model of cooperation. governance of migration, a structural phenomenon that is destined to last in the europe of tomorrow, also requires reflection in the perspective of the next multiannual financial framework 2021-2027. europe obviously needs to have stable and lasting financial instruments and mechanisms to manage migration flows from countries of origin and transit. it is also urgent that the three mediterranean routes receive equal political and economic attention. the european union has allocated eur 6 billion to the agreement with turkey. the african union trust fund is constantly seeking funding and has a gap of at least eur 500 million in respect of commitments. the european management of the internal dimension of the migration phenomenon is no less complex. it must be rid of the illusion that the protection of the european external maritime border can be a solution, with a huge expenditure for thousands of agents of the so-called reinforced frontex and with an additional burden on the countries of first arrival which would also have an impact in terms of security. migration flows do not govern themselves, they require a shared effort. as agreed by the june european council, they must concern all 28 member states. the proposed reform of the dublin regulation, approved by the european parliament in november 2017, is not sustainable in the current european union: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, the implementation of the conclusions of the european council of 28 june, which are based on the principles of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibilities, also referred to in article 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, cannot be postponed any further. in the face of the waste of human lives abused, sold, broken, we must all fight together a relentless fight against traffickers and torturers, who represent an affront to humanity, as well as a threat to our security. let us stop being divided by nationalist or regionalist logic and try to put into practice genuine solidarity, so as to restore a europe which respects human life and its own security. the need for genuine solidarity and sharing between member states, without division between areas and regions of the union, also applies to the equally urgent challenge of completing economic and monetary union, especially at a time when global trade tensions are putting the european economic situation at risk, as confirmed by the european commission's recent estimates of the gdp of the member states. i hope that more attention will be paid to the call from italy and other southern european member states for an urgent rebalancing between reduction and risk sharing, in favour of real convergence which does not leave growth behind in the name of austerity. the reform effort - and i am of course referring in particular to the one initiated by the italian government with the 2019 budget law - is sustainable on the social level, even before on the economic level, if structural reforms do not become a sisyphus fatigue, which stifles growth and kills social cohesion. with the budget law italy has embarked on a path of growth in stability. while keeping the books in order, we have worked to ensure a better present and future for citizens left behind and whose urgent expectation of change the italian government has tried to represent. at the same time, the boost to public investment, including through reforms to simplify the entire regulatory and legal framework, is a sign of the intention to give a boost to an economy which plays a central role for our continent. the economic governance of the european union must take account of the need to balance growth and stability, otherwise the valuable stimulus for growth represented by the junker plan, which is nevertheless a concrete sign of european recognition of the centrality of public intervention in favour of investment, may also be insufficient. but what does it mean to overcome austerity? this does not mean that we do not appreciate the value of financial stability: the european union is also committed to the value of social stability and sustainable development. i am glad that jean-claude juncker has recently referred to the fact that in the case of the greek crisis austerity may have been premature. many of us have been convinced of that ever since. what we must avoid is that someone in a few years' time will apologize for a failure to manage migration in europe or for a failure to have a social europe. europe must look to the future of those who are already at risk of not having opportunities in the europe of tomorrow. it is essential that the european union invests more boldly in youth, education and innovation. it must not discourage public investment in these areas, seeing it as a factor of deficit and instability rather than a steering wheel for the future of our continent. on the other hand, work and balanced and sustainable economic and social progress are objectives which, following the maastricht treaty, the treaty of lisbon confirmed, but which, ten years after its entry into force, still appear to be far from being implemented. criticism of the incompleteness of the european institutional architecture, now also coming from authorities in the member states, has been partly accepted by the european commission and the ecb. they have taken appropriate initiatives, including the decision of the eurogroup of 21 january to set up a high-level group to examine the implementation of edis, the european deposit insurance scheme and the completion of the european banking union, in implementation of the eurosummit of 14 december. progress has been made on banking crises, although the instrumentation needs to be fine-tuned and the high level group is hopefully in charge of this. the change in the rules for resolving banking crises has meant a step back in the provision of instruments which must be completed before a possible new recession sets back the clock for italian and european financial and banking stability. the maastricht treaty, as you will recall, assigned the task of guaranteeing the credibility of sovereign debt to the commitments to convergence towards 60% of the debt-to-gdp ratio of individual countries, to policies of fiscal restraint and to the implementation of reforms at national level. despite the commission's vigilant eye, the situation has become significantly critical, as demonstrated by the italian case, following the outbreak of the financial crisis in the usa in 2008 and the subsequent major global recession. in order to tackle these problems more effectively, we must also move decisively towards the creation of common financing instruments at european level, which will make it possible to tackle the challenges we face together, combining responsibility and solidarity in a balanced way. the inadequate and insufficient solidarity within the european union also explains why europe is struggling and delaying in becoming more equitable, more social. the new european legislature must pursue the fight against unemployment and support growth with greater determination and as an urgent priority. a european impulse on these priorities, even with bold formulas such as a european unemployment insurance, is the best antidote to nationalistic tendencies, as well as to unemployment. the gap in unemployment, especially youth unemployment, between some disadvantaged areas of europe and others with excellent employment rates is widening to the point of encouraging nationalistic closures if it is to be tackled only by national policies. the more advantaged areas will seek to hedge against perceived european policies as a cost, while the less advantaged areas on a national basis will fail, if not to a minimum, to find the resources to make real progress. a fairer and more united europe must also be an objective for the next multiannual financial framework. the complexity inherent in this type of negotiation must not lose sight of this priority, especially in the face of the existential challenges facing the european union. a proper balance is therefore crucial between the new priorities such as immigration, growth, investment, security and traditional policies, cohesion, the common agricultural policy, which must continue to receive full support as they are central to the continent's socioeconomic cohesion. many more are the challenges we are called upon to face. we must commit ourselves to promoting a fairer world trade, one that is better able to protect consumers. we must take all the necessary steps to contribute with ambitious determination to the international effort to combat climate change. more generally, we must continue to take a leading role in protecting old and new rights, all the more worthy of protection in the digital age, even in spite of the fact that rights cost. i am thinking in particular of the decisive role that europe can play as a security provider, with specific reference to the new hybrid and particularly cyber threats. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the question of meaning with which i began my speech is again of paramount importance. what kind of europe do we want? what kind of europe do we need to ensure that the citizens of europe have a future worthy of the 60 years of peace and prosperity that the union has brought? my answer is once again the same: europe must be close to its people. the european union in the 21st century must pursue its project by and for the people, starting - and i am pleased to say this here today - from a european parliament with a strengthened role and powers, particularly with regard to the power of legislative initiative and inquiry, as the only institution with direct democratic legitimacy. it would also be important to recognise the parliament's general accountability to the other european institutions. the european parliament will be able to play a decisive role in responding to the demand for change across europe, after a decade marked by historic events that have changed the geopolitical landscape of the continent. at the same time, an appropriate strengthening of the institutions of direct democracy is, also and above all in a european sense, an essential development for the recovery of the credibility of the institutions in the eyes of the citizens. the european scenario is explicit in indicating widespread mistrust and disillusionment among citizens. the government i have the honour of presiding over is born of the will to meet with priority the urgent demand for change of the italian citizens, with answers that politics has not been able to offer for too long. as i said at the beginning, this need for change must also be understood and represented at european level. if we need further confirmation of the urgency of putting these principles into practice, we need only think of brexit, the central issue for the european union in the coming years. in the face of this challenge, the european union has shown that it is able to react with a spirit of unity and solidarity and to protect the achievements of more than 60 years of european integration, without resorting to punitive attitudes towards a member of the european family who no longer wishes to be part of it. it is an epochal process, if you think about it, unprecedented, which must be managed in an orderly way, with the objective always being to guarantee the rights of citizens and to protect the social and economic fabric from the negative consequences of brexit. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must work with courage and rigour to review what has not worked, including in the implementation of the treaties, and to counteract the centrifugal tendencies and the disintegration of europe, which are sometimes, as in my country, the result of european disillusionment. if we want europe to remain our common future, it is time to put words into action and start together on the path to a new europe, a europe of the people, more united, more inclusive, more equitable and ultimately more democratic, the only one in which citizens of today and tomorrow deserve to live. (applause) i would like to thank
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, italy holds a very special place in the heart of our union. it has given europe so much and has been there from the very start, shaping our union every step of the way. it was spinelli and rossi in prison on the island of ventotene who set out their dream of a free and united europe. they called on the nations of europe, so long adversaries, to come together to ensure that the mistakes of the past would never happen again. after the war, de gasperi became one of the great pioneers of the european union and in 1957 it was on capitoline hill that the treaty of rome was signed and our union was born, with six founding member states. 60 years on, in 2017, it was once again on those same steps in rome that the leaders of our member states stood, side by side, to renew their vows for our union. this time there were 27 of them from right across our continent. a sign of how far we have come. i say this because italy’s special history is one of the many reasons that it has such a unique and important place in our union. but i also say this because it shows that europe moves forward, that europe is at its best when it has italy and italian people at its beating heart. this history must serve as a guide and as a reminder for our future. to build a successful future for our union, europe needs a strong italy at its heart, just as strong as vibrant italy needs a strong europe. we must build our common future together, in unity and in solidarity, always working with and not against each other; talking with each other and not about each other. when it comes to building a true union of solidarity, italy is the best place to start. it is where the european solidarity corps started its work. to help italy rebuild following the tragic earthquakes it suffered in 2016, 230 young european volunteered in umbria and across the regions hardest hit, in addition to the eur 1.2 billion of financial support provided to italy under the eu solidarity fund. we all have seen the images of young volunteers from all over europe helping to rebuild the ancient and beautiful church of norcia. this is the solidarity that builds our european union today and that must continue to build our common future. italy itself has shown the same spirit countless times over the years. president juncker said many times ‘italy is one of those who saved europe’s honour in the mediterranean at the height of the migration crisis’. and the truth is that some others were too slow to support the efforts of the italian people. but it is also true that europe stood up and supported italy in every way it could. from the beginning of the migration crisis to the end of 2018, the commission made almost eur 950 million available to support migration and border management in italy. this includes eur 225 million in emergency support to fund border surveillance and search and rescue operations, to improve reception facilities and to support all of the authorities and people on the ground. europe has been there for italy. we should not forget operation sofia or the role of the european border and coast guard agency. saving lives at sea is a joint effort and here again, we need italy. prime minister, it is also clear that europe still needs to overcome its differences and find sustainable and responsible solutions. we can no longer rely on ad hoc solutions. we have come a long way since the peak of the crisis, with arrivals down by over 97% in the eastern mediterranean and 80% in the central mediterranean. 700 000 lives have been saved at sea but clearly we now need to finish the job and conclude the necessary reform of our asylum system. the commission has put everything on the table and it is now time to move ahead. we need the full engagement of italy if we want to succeed. honourable members, prime minister, europe stands for peace and prosperity and we are all responsible for defending its values together. that means deciding what we want europe to achieve and it means deciding where to invest and to have the biggest impact on the daily lives of italians and all europeans. this is why, last may, the commission put forward a fair, modern and balanced budget for our future. a budget that is more efficient and more focused on issues that matter the most to our people. for instance, the commission has proposed an almost threefold increase in funding for migration and security, to reach nearly eur 33 billion. an increased, simpler more effective and more flexible eu budget for external action will help build partnership with the countries in our neighbourhood and beyond. this will be especially important for italy as a country, as it has taken so much responsibility in this area. we will invest in making our economies more competitive, more innovative and productive. key for italy will be the 50% increase in funding for research and innovation and the eur 9 billion digital europe programme that will support italy’s digital transformation. investing in our future also involves investing in human capital through education and training. this is why the commission has proposed a doubling of the budget of eur 30 billion for the erasmus+ programme, the eu’s flagship for learning mobility. we aim to increase support to all sectors, including higher education as well as vocational education and training. in 2017, more than 65 000 italians participated in erasmus programmes. in the next multiannual budget we will build on the success of investment plans for europe – the so-called juncker plan. italy is one of the largest beneficiaries of the plan, with close to eur 58 billion of investment triggered in italy’s economy and over 215 000 small and medium-sized businesses supported. the juncker plan has significantly increased private investment but also public investment in italy. it is a positive sign because we should not put too much burden on taxpayers if private liquidity is available. that investment is making a real difference on the ground, right across italy. eur 70 million is helping to refurbish the local hospital in treviso; eur 200 million is going into upgrading puglia’s water network to improve quality and access to clean drinking water for more than four million people; and eur 500 million is supporting the rolling out of high speed internet so that seven million more households in italy benefit from quality broadband access. the new programme for the next budget in the eu has the potential to go much further by triggering altogether eur 650 billion for investment. all of this can, and will, make a real difference on the ground in italy and across our union. this is especially true at a time when economic growth is becoming harder across some of our major european economies, partly down to global uncertainties but also because of domestic challenges and choices. economic growth needs confidence amongst households and investors. trust is like oxygen, you notice it only when it’s running out. uncertainty is a poison that seriously hampers jobs and growth. italy’s growth has been weaker than the eurozone average for many years. this is a structural problem. the weaker growth means fewer jobs for the italian people. at the same time – and i say this at every occasion – italy is among the most creative economies in the world. the future of your country is in your hands. do what is necessary to unleash this creativity and offer a brighter future for the italian people. honourable members, dear prime minister, it is now two years since we presented the white paper on the future of europe, which kick-started the debate we are having now on what we want our union to achieve in the years ahead. five scenarios show different possible paths that we could decide today. but, whatever we choose, there are some things that are constant and one of those is italy’s central role in building our union. europe needs a strong italy and italy needs a strong europe. it was no surprise or coincidence that the first lines of the white paper were about spinelli and rossi’s manifesto. as we look at our future, we should all inspire ourselves from those that have gone before us to build a stronger and more united union for generations that follow, just as they did for us. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to welcome the prime minister to the european parliament. your speech, prime minister, started with the perspective of people. i am from lower bavaria and when i go to the service in my catholic church, i meet the farmers and the nurses there. all of us have our neighbours and our neighbourhood and we talk with them every day. when i speak with them, i see the same problems. we have the perspective of young people all over europe and the question of social fairness in the european union. to answer this, i think we have to be a little bit more specific than what we heard from you today because, to give an answer on the economic problems, the fact is that italy is today the country with the lowest growth rate in the european union, as jyrki katainen mentioned. this is not only a problem for italy; it is a problem for the whole european union because we are speaking about the g7 countries, so one of europe’s economic engines. what to do? we in the ppe group believe that we need investments in today’s european union and in italy we see a government that cannot even agree on building up a project that has already been approved between france and italy. in the ppe we believe in a stable currency, which is fundamental for a strong economy to build up trust. your government discussed for a few weeks at the start of your government whether you should still be a member of the euro area or not. we believe that only with the will for reform can you win the economic future of your country. the programme countries in europe – ireland, poland, cyprus, greece and also spain – showed that if you have the will for reform, you can win the future and you can create jobs for the younger generation. they did the job on the labour market, the judicial system and the tax system. even in germany, i must tell you – my country – it was gerhard schröder’s reforms, the agenda 2010, which created the starting point for the economic strength of today’s germany. so the will for reform is necessary for winning the future and at the moment your government is not really forward—looking and a front—runner on the question of reforms. finally, we believe that a stable budget is crucial for a strong economy and we don’t see that either in italy. we see a growing debt rate. that is what we see. that is a summary. additionally, regarding the investments from the european union in italy, it is a real problem to see that we have such a lack of growth in italy and, again, it’s your responsibility. it’s not the responsibility of others, it’s the responsibility of the italian government. we fully respect that you are elected and the government has been elected. you have a democratic mandate from the italian citizens, but it’s probably easier to win elections as an anti-elite movement than to stay in government afterwards as an anti—elite movement. some of you have probably become, in the meantime, the new elites in italy. i want to underline a second point which is important, namely the migration thing. i want to show you our full solidarity as the ppe group, that we think that italy deserves solidarity. we fully understand the anger of the people in italy that for years and years they had no solidarity and italy was alone. that’s why we stick to the principle of a binding solidarity mechanism for the european union, but it is also a problem for us to see that a member of the european council is here and tells us that his own body, his own institution, is not delivering on this issue. we delivered on this issue. it’s up to the council to deliver now. finally, on external affairs, let me thank you for sticking to our european approach in the answer on russia. at the moment you were ready, as the italian government, to give consent to the sanctions. that was a good thing. we have a common understanding that russia’s interest is to weaken the european union. on the other hand, in recent days we saw the discussions about venezuela. for us, as the ppe, it’s clear that we have there a socialist dictator, maduro, an unfair, undemocratic election, and support from the military and the army. they are even stopping the transport of medicine which is so urgently needed in the country. on the other hand, we have a freely elected parliament looking for a fresh start for the country and simply asking for the right to seek early presidential elections for the country. that’s why guaidó was right when he asked today, in a letter he wrote to the italian citizens, why their government was not supporting him. why is the italian government not supporting the democratic forces in venezuela? i think you should answer this question if you believe in the common european approach. (applause) those are some reflections. i thank you for the general will to look for a clear commitment to the european way of life. two principles to end with: you said today in an agency at european level that italy is becoming louder and is more present in the public debate. you say that nobody has a problem with a loud voice from a national point of view. our problem is, in the european decision-making process, whether loudness is the same principle as egoism. what we need in europe is compromise, the will for compromise. if everybody were loud, then finally there would only be noise and nothing else. finally, you spoke about the breach between people and the european union decision—making process. you’re here in the european parliament: lega nord is here, the five star movement is here, forza italia is here, and partito democratico is here. all the forces from all over europe are here. this is the political landscape of europe. we all represent our citizens. we are all close to our citizens. there are no elites sitting here. we are representatives of our citizens and this is why this is the place for deciding the future of the european union. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i thank the prime minister very much for coming to the european parliament today. this is the house of european democracy. this is the house of public debate and of frank language, so please allow me to start with that and to share my worries. i am deeply worried when the government of a founding member of our european community, the government of the seventh world industrial power, is driving the italian nation further into economic and political isolation today – and this against the backdrop of a situation externally where we cannot rely on washington anymore, as we could in the past, and we have new threats from russia. we can see your economy shifting towards a recession and we see that industrial production is falling. in this situation, i am deeply saddened by the senseless escalation between france and italy. what is this? of what use is this? (applause) in conflicts such as this – and you know it – there are no gains. nobody can win. this is a perfect lose—lose for your country and for europe. people in both countries could end up paying a very high price. italy and france are one another’s second trade partners – eur 76 billion is the volume of the annual trade between them. hundreds of thousands of jobs depend on that. hundreds of thousands of jobs, not of the elite but of ordinary folk on the ground. the italian people simply cannot afford to lose any more jobs. this year, italy will grow by only 0.8%. that is the lowest growth rate in europe. you may dress the situation up by saying that the goal is to bring back the dignity of labour. i very much wish you had brought back the dignity of labour: 75 000 men and women have lost their work, and many more have become trapped in unstable and low—paid jobs, while countless young people are being forced to leave the country in search of a better life. and as if this wasn’t enough, the livelihoods and life savings of italian families were recklessly put on the line by a calculated head—on collision course with the commission over the budget. why was that so necessary? was it just one man’s public relations stunt? it has cost the italian people eur 1.7 billion during the past couple of months alone. and for what? so that mr salvini can blame brussels. mr salvini has a scapegoat for everything, but no solution for anything. this is part of the italian reality today. (applause) to distract from the economic mess, salvini is now even abusing migration. ich selber war vor zwei wochen in catania und habe dort sehen können, wie 47 menschen 12 tage lang ein rettungsschiff nicht haben verlassen dürfen, die sea-watch, unter ihnen minderjährige und folteropfer, weil sie die gefangenen einer ideologie waren, weil sie vorgeführt werden mussten, weil es nicht anders ging als sie zum spielball einer zynischen politik zu machen. das ist nicht das italien, das wir kennen, meine sehr verehrten damen und herren. wir kennen ein anderes italien. wir kennen das große europäische italien mit altiero spinelli, de gasperi, die niemals – niemals! – für kurzfristige vermeintliche politische gewinne ihr land oder gar europa zur disposition gestellt hätten. ich verstehe sehr gut, und meine fraktion versteht sehr gut, warum menschen in italien enttäuscht sind. ihre vorgängerregierung hat großes geleistet, tausende und abertausende von menschen aus seenot gerettet, und europa hat nicht hinreichend reagiert. europa hat keine hinreichende solidarität bewiesen. aber wer hat sie denn enttäuscht? doch nicht die proeuropäischen regierungen, doch nicht diejenigen, die europa weiter voranbringen wollten? schauen sie doch hin! sagen sie doch den menschen in italien, wer ihnen nicht hilft, endlich die dublin-reform zu machen! das sind doch die freunde von herrn salvini, das sind doch die kaczynskis, das sind doch die orbáns und die menschen wie herr kurz in österreich, die alles blockieren. das ist doch die realität! lassen sie uns doch die wahrheit aussprechen! und es sind die proeuropäer, die, auch wieder bei sea-watch, die menschen natürlich – natürlich! – gerettet haben, denn genau das gehört sich auch so. es gibt dieses europa noch, es gibt dieses italien noch, wo beide füreinander kämpfen; dieses großartige italien, diese großartige nation, das italien von spinelli und de gasperi. das sehe ich, wenn ich die fischer in italien sehe, die fischer von lampedusa, die trotz der bossi-fini-gesetze und obwohl sie genau wussten, was auf sie wartet, weiterhin die menschen aus der see gezogen haben. das sehe ich bei den seeleuten der diciotti – einem schiff der küstenwache ihrer eigenen nation –, die nicht anlanden durften, und die sagen: wir haben einen seefahrerkodex, das ist unsere ethik, und die steht nicht zur disposition. und das sehe ich bei den mutigen bürgermeistern, die essen und wohnungen zur verfügung stellen, auch wenn die regierung die schlafplätze vernichtet hat. es gibt dieses italien, das italien der menschenwürde, das große italien der europäischen werte. und diesem italien reichen wir die hand, weil wir es brauchen. aber dann sollte ihre regierung aufhören, uns die grinsende fratze der unmenschlichkeit vorzuführen, denn das hat mit dem italien, mit dem wahren italien nichts zu tun. es ist zeit, dass wir in europa aufstehen gegen den populismus und gegen diejenigen, die unsere heimat ruinieren. italien hat unsere solidarität, und italien gehört in die mitte europas, in das herz europas, zusammen mit seinen engsten freundinnen und freunden. (beifall)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, thank you for your comments. you have spoken a great deal about the solidarity which italy now demands from the european union. this is your contribution to the future of the eu, that you are calling for solidarity, and we know who should be in solidarity. but when we talk about solidarity, we must of course also talk about why we have reached a situation where italy has to demand solidarity in the first place. i would like to point out once again that we have had a common currency for 20 years: the euro. and italy has not had growth for 15 years. have you thought about whether there might be a connection? could it be that italy itself needs to think about whether this common currency is actually suitable for the country, where does it come from that the italian central bank is carrying a deficit of 400 billion euros, why has italy increased its debt by a third since the euro was introduced, why is italy constantly breaking the rules regarding its deficit, breaking the fiscal pact? mr. conte, if you want solidarity, italy must also follow the rules. you're not following the asylum system either. first, you didn't register all the refugees who came. now all of a sudden you're closing all the ports and falling into the other extreme. if italy wants to be a member of the european union, then italy must abide by european rules, otherwise there can be no solidarity.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. welcome, mr prime minister! i'm going to the office. you have managed to stop the possibility of a mass invasion across the mediterranean. i thank you for that. it's also no secret that the asylum lobby can't make as much money off you as it used to. you must feel like you're in a courtroom. but this is not a court of law. this is the trembling of the old elites, who know full well that in three months they will no longer have the majority in this house. mr president, we have learned in germany and in europe that migrants can kill a thousand times over. stop the killing! give the millions of europeans who look to poland, italy and hungary today hope for a new future.
in writing. i support the criticism of italy's migration, economic and financial policies which has been voiced here in the plenary. and i am proud to see the vigour with which our bourgeois parties have defended the values and foundations of the eu.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. what lasts long, finally becomes good, they say in germany. long has granted it. i have to say, singapore has been very patient with us. i congratulate singapore on finally coming to the point, now that it is in charge of coordinating the eu-asean dialogue. the agreements show that europe is seeking closer cooperation with asia to achieve our values and interests. we need a strategic partnership. we also want a strategic partnership with asean to pursue security and development in the indo-pacific region. we want to strengthen connectivity between the eu and asia and we want to cooperate multilaterally. and finally, we want the full application of human rights, from freedom of expression and assembly to the abolition of the death penalty, and environmental and social progress. but i must raise a problem, and i am saying this in english so that the singaporeans will also understand: public debt titles should not be covered by investment protection agreements (ipas). since the financial crisis of 2007, the eu has had standards and procedures if a government defaults on its debt and the debt needs restructuring. here, the singapore ipa creates a loophole. this is the singapore ipa. as the german business daily handelsblatt writes today: the ipa increases the threshold for investor consent in debt-restructuring procedures vis-à-vis the level that otherwise exists in the eu. investors that operate under this ipa would be privileged over other investors. that is unacceptable. that's why we demand that there should be no vote on the ipa tomorrow until annex 4 on public debt is removed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to limit myself to a few points. firstly, it is the first agreement negotiated after the ecj ruling on the exclusive or mixed jurisdiction of free trade agreements. in this respect it is a very modern, advanced agreement which we shall be voting on tomorrow. secondly, the first part of the free trade agreement. singapore has signed the ilo labour conventions, and has given a written undertaking to ratify them. that's in our spirit. it is a victory for us and for the commissioner who led the negotiations. in the investment protection agreement, we have agreed on a bilateral tribunal with an appeal mechanism. what we have been asking for for years here in parliament is now in writing. singapore has agreed to this. that's good for us too. singapore will be a gateway for trade with the whole of the rapidly growing asean region. that is why the epp will vote in favour. thank you for your cooperation with all involved.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to make a comment on the foreign policy dimension. how many times have we spoken about this in the house? the decades-old system of multilateral and rules-based free trade is under pressure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the trade and investment agreements between the european union and singapore are also timely in my view. these contracts go beyond purely economic considerations. they are a strong sign of like-minded partners to defend and promote our rules-based international system of cooperation and multilateralism.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the eu, we are proud to stand not only for free trade but also for value-based trade. there is no doubt that value-based trade means that we and our trading partners guarantee a minimum of workers' rights. this is why we insist in all negotiations on the ratification and implementation of all ilo core labour standards. singapore has consistently refused to do so. the recent letter from the minister of commerce to the chairman of the trade committee also shows that singapore is not willing to rethink its anti-worker attitude. instead of concrete plans for implementation, the letter contains only white ointment. this is not acceptable. if you want privileged trade relations with the eu, you must also guarantee a minimum level of worker rights. this is not only important for the protection of the workers there, but also to prevent labour and wage dumping from becoming a competitive advantage. it's a question of credibility. if you are serious about value-based trade, you should reject the agreements with singapore.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are finally putting an end to this long process and we hope that tomorrow we will be able to give our consent to this agreement as the european parliament. the agreement has been in principle ready for many years. we have decided to use this agreement as an example to try to clarify matters before the european court of justice. there is no agreement that has been examined so closely, not only by us but also by the european court of justice. we are finally working with singapore to do what we have done with japan, what we have done with canada and what we want to do with many other countries: that is, to establish rules for global trade so that the biggest and strongest do not always prevail, as many colleagues have said, but so that the rule of law prevails and we have a clear framework for trade relations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are missing many opportunities, we are leaving the market to others, we are missing the opportunity to open up markets in the region to our workers. we are not improving anything by not agreeing to this agreement. i therefore ask all those who have expressed criticism today to reconsider their position by tomorrow.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not in bulgaria, the population is being incited by false information against the istanbul convention. the parliament then suspends ratification. in poland, schools are to teach sex education, that masturbation leads to pornography addiction, and that catholic women should use only the ovulation method of contraception. in germany, instead of finally abolishing the ban on information on abortion, a five million euro study is being commissioned to prove the negative effects of abortion. the backlash is in full swing. the achievements of democratic societies are being challenged all over europe, and this is particularly true of women. control of the female body is at the top of the list of neoconservative, far-right and christian fundamentalist movements. but it also includes smear campaigns against the istanbul convention and hatred and incitement against lgbti and other minorities. the american anti-choice organizations and the russian oligarchs are flooding europe not only with ideas but also with money, in order to turn back the clock. and what did we do? we've waited too long and done nothing. this has to stop now! we are speaking out against movements that are against women and minorities and that want to restrict our freedom. and if they try to restore some kind of racist and patriarchal natural order, then they can expect our resistance. where do we start with that? here in this parliament! president tajani has announced that he will attend the summit of reactionary groups in verona in march. i say that if the president of this house feels any connection whatsoever with this house, he will withdraw from this participation. we are fighting for a free and equal europe ... (the president withdrew the floor)
author. – madam president, the european parliament strongly condemns sex-normalising treatments and surgery. that is a very simple yet very meaningful sentence – and sentences that change history are often not complicated but rather simple. tomorrow this house will have the chance to make history when we vote for the first intersex resolution here in this parliament. and yes, we will not be able to make up for all the suffering that the binary-gender ideology has wrought in so many people’s lives: the involuntary treatments, the forced sterilisation and surgical procedures, the stigmatisation and the discrimination. but we can say tomorrow, loud and clear, that we will fight for a future in which the rights of intersex people will be upheld in this union. this message is long overdue, but it comes at a very crucial moment because the rights of all lgbti people are currently under attack. after decades of progress, we are in danger of going backwards. to prevent that from happening, the eu must adopt a strategy on how to prevent it. a new list of measures on lgbti rights is the least that the commission can do in order to stand firm with those who are fighting to love and to live as they want to. the specific measures that we want the commission to take are: to unblock the cross-cutting equality directive proposal in the council; to make lgbti rights a priority, including in the forthcoming work programme; to follow up on the coleman case to enable freedom of movement for lgbti citizens of the european union; and to ensure that all possible measures are taken to fight discrimination against lgbti people throughout the european union. we have to do this for european citizens.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. today, for the first time, we have a resolution on the rights of intersex people on the table. it is time, because the tabooing of this issue still makes it easier to lock people in a dark room of injustice. and what they think is right is decided by others who believe that what is wrong and deviant must be eradicated by surgically changing the sex of infants. whatever we say today, let us agree on one thing: we should do everything we can to ban such operations, such medical treatments on infants, everywhere, because they can have terrible consequences and because they are not medically necessary. intersex people are not just sick people who need to be cured, but normal people who want to make their own decisions and to be respected. to do everything so that no one has to be afraid, ridiculed, patronized, threatened and self-doubted - i think that's the point - that's why discrimination for lack of recognition of intersexuality must also be prosecuted, we need support actions, publicity, positive publicity and the normalization of the debate - whether it's about appropriate gender designations on identity documents, or finally understanding that human life is not a one-way street.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i spoke for too long earlier, so i will be brief now. i want to thank you for the debate. parliament has again shown very strong commitment and i will try to do the same: to express my preparedness to work on our next steps on this important agenda. one concrete thing that we should do together with the lgbti intergroup is to carry out some assessment of how the list of actions worked: what are the achievements, and what things should be changed in the future lgbti action plan. we will have the new data from eurobarometer, and it will be important that we meet and that we work together. so, this is my invitation, and i’m sure this will be an important event, where we can work together on this issue.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you so much and thank you once more for this exchange. i think it has shown how much work remains to be done. at the same time, i think we can be proud of the forward strides we have taken in this field. as i recalled earlier, the council reacted positively to the commission’s list of actions in support of the whole lgbti community. i look forward to its further implementation. when it comes to fighting discrimination and violence, the fine words of our treaties and our declarations and our political debates are quite clear. europe is on the side of progress, tolerance and light. it is our responsibility as politicians to turn words into action.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, over the past decade, we have seen growing public interest in the development of therapies derived from cannabis and its components and in the use of cannabis for medical purposes. the therapeutic use of cannabis has been discussed in relation to a wide range of medical conditions, from multiple sclerosis to post—traumatic stress disorder and anxiety. i would first like to highlight the distinction between non—pharmaceutical medical cannabis and medicinal products derived from cannabis. when it comes to the regulatory point of view, the eu angle is limited. this is a member state competence, which means that each national authority will decide whether it is legal in its territory. on the other hand, the eu pharmaceutical legislative framework is clear and robust and includes cannabis—derived medicinal products. a marketing authorisation is granted for a medicinal product only after its quality, safety and efficacy have been evaluated, and a positive benefit/risk balance related to its use has been concluded. once placed on the market, medicinal products continue to be monitored through pharmacovigilance activities, which also apply to cannabis—derived medicinal products. so, how exactly can the eu contribute to this discussion? well, early dialogue and scientific advice for medicinal-product development are examples of eu added value. furthermore, coordination between the various eu agencies is crucial. let me now address each of the questions you raised. as a starting point, let me stress that more research is needed on the safety and efficacy of cannabinoid—based therapies. opportunities to support this type of research will be available through the upcoming horizon 2020 calls for research proposals in 2019 and 2020. as for previous framework programmes for research and innovation, the eu has funded a number of relevant projects and fellowships. more than eur 40 million has been dedicated to research on cannabis and cannabinoid—based compounds. our mission is to encourage research and innovation in europe and we will continue with that approach. in the new framework programme, horizon europe, the commission will continue to support research, including in innovative areas including novel therapeutic approaches. turning now to your second series of questions, let me say that the healthcare—related issues are complex, and decisions are taken by the member states. the eu regulatory framework for pharmaceuticals provides for the authorisation of medicinal products derived from cannabis when their quality, safety and efficacy have been proven. any other use of cannabis for a medical purpose falls within the competence of the member states. however, that is not to say that the eu is not contributing to this discussion. in october 2016, the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction launched a new service on cannabis, providing updates on cannabis policy models. in december 2018, the agency published a report on medical use of cannabis and cannabinoids, as well as questions and answers for policy making. this was in response to the growing interest in the topic. on your third set of questions, i want to take this opportunity to stress that non—pharmaceutical medical cannabis lies outside eu competence. at the same time, the commission is aware of the discussion in the world health organisation expert committee on drug dependence about the pharmaceutical preparation of psychoactive substances. if applicable, the relevant conclusions will be considered in the framework of the pharmaceutical legislation on a product basis.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the medical use of cannabis makes sense. cannabis products can help patients who are not helped or not well enough by other medicines. we must beware of two extremes in the debate. the one extreme is, like pavlov's dog, you hear the word cannabis and you go, "oh, this is a dangerous, horrible, illegal drug, we have to fight it". when used under medical supervision, this pavlovian reflex is not appropriate. but on the other hand, we also have to be careful that patients don't develop an attitude, as i was once told by a patient as a doctor, who said, "yes, the only thing that really helps my back pain is if i smoke a joint". without having been properly examined by a specialist who could have given him some other advice on what to do about his back pain. so, you have to do this in a regulated environment. you have to be careful. i also expressly agree with paragraph 14 of the resolution that this must be done under the rules of the marketing authorization, just as with other medicines. we cannot put high standards on other things for the industry and say that if they use cannabis, they can do it anywhere. the resolution is in the right context and that is why we hope to support it tomorrow by a large majority.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like to thank you for the opportunity to discuss the human germline genome modification review and to thank the two honourable members who prepared this question for their long-standing and well-known dedication to the subject of ethical consequences stemming from our increased knowledge about human dna. i am well aware of the recent unfortunate event that is referred to in the question and which has triggered widespread awareness of the consequences emanating from the possibility to adjust the human genome. the honourable members refer to clinical trials where genome editing is used in treatments affecting an individual who is suffering from a serious medical condition. based on that reference, i understand that we agree that increased knowledge about the human genome, and in particular about genetic causes of illness, could contribute to alleviating human suffering by opening the way to new therapies against such diseases. on the other hand, i am strongly convinced that we are all very concerned about the risk associated with manipulating the genome of future generations. in this context, i allow myself to recall that the debate on the ethical consequences of knowledge about and the possibilities to manipulate the human genome has been ongoing for some decades now. politicians and scientists are well aware of the situation. this has resulted in legislative and other initiatives to strictly regulate manipulation of the human genome and in particular to prevent human germline genome modification. i would like to point to the legislative framework at union level, in particular the legislative acts concerning pharmaceuticals and medical devices. we set strict rules for interaction with the human genome for somatic purposes and prohibit germline modification. this said, i would like also to draw everyone’s attention to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, the first principle of which is human dignity, and which clearly prohibits eugenic practices in the fields of medicine and biology. to the best of my understanding the act of germline genome editing to which the honourable members refer would therefore be illegal in the union. i read your questions as dealing with future directions in this field. it must be noted that the treaties, and in particular article 168(7) of the founding treaty of the european union, give member states, and not the union, the competence for medical care, including the corresponding ethical considerations. the use of gene editing as a means of medical care should be regulated at member state level. i am convinced that the commission, which has the sole right of initiative concerning union legislation, is following this issue and will, if it deems it necessary or appropriate, prepare legislative proposals. the romanian presidency, and i believe the incoming presidencies, are ready to give our full priority to the examination of any such proposals and i thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. – madam president, the commission is indeed aware of the ethical and legal implications of the latest developments in the field of human germline modification. at global level it participates in dialogue with international communities and institutions such as the national academies of sciences for engineering and medicine and the oecd working party on biotechnology, nanotechnology and converging technologies. the latter has been looking into the ethical and legal debate on germline genome editing. we are also involved with the world health organisation in considering the governance and oversight of human gene editing. at the level of the european union, the eu framework programme for research and innovation and the eu clinical trials and legislation for medicinal products contain specific requirements prohibiting these types of research activity. in addition, the eu has a robust regulatory framework on medicinal products, which is underpinned by the principles of the council of europe’s oviedo convention on protecting human rights in the biomedical field. regulation 1394/2007 on advanced therapy medicinal products provides for strict controls in respect of quality, safety and efficacy and for a centralised authorisation system. however, decisions on the application of germline editing techniques for in vitro fertilisation purposes and on funding of national research projects remain the prerogative of the member states. furthermore, the commission is working with national authorities to strengthen oversight on novel technologies in the field of tissues and cells. the independent advisory european group on ethics and new technologies is currently working on an opinion on genome editing, which will explore, inter alia, the ethical implications of germline genome editing. the commission is also exploring how to build on existing surveys of eu public attitudes towards genome editing; how to launch calls for research proposals on public outreach and acceptance of new technologies, such as genome editing, for health applications; and how to organise an event on the ethical, social and legal aspects of genome editing therapeutics.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. modern genetic engineering offers great opportunities, and we must seize them. but there must be ethically motivated boundaries that we respect. not everything that is technically feasible can be done. the experiments of the researcher he jiankui, which he presented at the conference in hong kong in november, are irresponsible not only in the individual case. interventions in the human germ line are generally irresponsible. i'm very grateful that there's been a huge outcry in the scientific community as well. but this outcry must be sustained now. we really need to set clear boundaries that are respected. i would like to thank the council for its interpretation of the charter of fundamental rights, which i consider to be completely correct. but it is important that we also bear in mind that the charter of fundamental rights also excludes this abuse of genetic engineering. we all have to work together to make sure that doesn't happen again.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, even if the picture this morning doesn’t fully mirror the importance of the issue, yes this debate will be the dominant debate during the next five years. even if perhaps not all sides have fully understood, this will be the decisive leadership debate for the next five years. our group, the socialists and democrats, have understood. we are spearheading this discussion and we come forward with our own proposals and we are pretty much convinced that we will also be able to explain that to our partners and friends here in the house during the campaign and, finally, at the beginning of our next mandate. yes, we recently saw thousands of people taking to the streets all over europe calling on governments to act against climate change. our planet is rapidly reaching its limits. the way we produce and consume depletes our fish stocks, pollutes our air, destroys our soil and damages our health. among our citizens, particularly among the young, there is a broad awareness of the urgency to act now. at the same time, social uprisings like the yellow vests in france articulate a deep-seated frustration with the status quo and anger at social injustice. something is fundamentally wrong with a system when, after 40 years of hard work, pensioners have to choose between paying their heating or buying food. something is fundamentally wrong when workers slave away for 40 or more hours per week and still can’t make ends meet. and something is fundamentally wrong when young people, at a time when the future should lie wide open, to them become entrapped in a vicious circle of unemployment, unpaid traineeships and short-term contracts. how can we expect these people now to pick up the bill for transforming the ways we produce and consume to more sustainable patterns while digital giants pay almost zero taxes and the super-rich hide billions in tax havens? this system is broken. our societies are in a deep crisis. liebe kolleginnen und kollegen, wir sozialdemokratinnen und sozialdemokraten denken deswegen, dass man diese beiden krisen entschieden zusammen anpacken muss, die soziale wie die ökologische. wir kämpfen für einen gerechten übergang zu einem nachhaltigen wirtschaftsmodell, das wohlstand für alle schafft, mit den zielen der vereinten nationen für nachhaltige entwicklung als unsere wegweiser, weil wir wissen, dass unser planet nicht überleben wird, wenn soziale ungerechtigkeiten fortbestehen, und weil soziale ungerechtigkeiten nicht auszurotten sind, ohne die umweltkrise entschieden anzupacken. deswegen, sehr verehrte vizepräsidenten der kommission: es ist zeit zu handeln! ihr papier macht einen vorschlag, ein ambitioniertes szenario 1 zu verfolgen. wir unterstützen das. wir wollen nicht mehr darüber diskutieren, welches szenario das richtige ist, wir wollen es umsetzen. weil wir glauben, dass wir keine zeit mehr haben, müssen wir jetzt die konzepte setzen, konzepte entschiedenen handelns für das neue mandat. alle unsere bereiche in der politik – ob wir über regionalpolitik reden, ob wir über forschungsförderung reden, ob wir über die art und weise der handelsverträge reden, die wir abschließen – müssen sich an diesen zielen orientieren. wir müssen sie endlich in die realität bringen, messen, erfolge feiern und weiter vorangehen. das sind wir dieser erde schuldig und unseren kindern.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it has been said many times that young people are the ones who are thinking about the future of our planet. mr katainen said 'we only have one planet', mr timmermans referred to the sustainable development goals. that is absolutely right; we have to deal with it. i would like to focus on something that is not so much the focus of this debate, namely the protection of the seas and the oceans. oceans are enormously important to our climate. they produce oxygen, they capture co2, but they're also very much affected by the climate, by climate change, by being disadvantaged and disrupted, destroyed in part. we must do something to prevent this and to improve it. we've already achieved quite a lot through the plastic strategy, through the single-use plastic legislation, through the ship-generated waste disposal in ports. but there has to be much more, because oceans are also very important for the sustainable future of our planet. they are very important as someone who can provide raw materials and blue biotechnology, a lot of blue economy. but that's only possible if we protect the seas. and that is why it is essential that this debate be included.
i have to say, madam president, mr president, mr commissioner, you have a very urgent tone in this reflection paper, but it does not fit the tone of slow action. first, why is this paper coming three and a half years after we discussed the 2030 agenda at the un level? and now we lack a concrete plan for implementation. i am also annoyed by what we are discussing here in scenarios two and three. they're not looking to the future at all. scenario 3 throws us back to the year 2000, to the millennium development goals. it can't be! only scenario 1 fulfils this transformation claim that we have in the 2030 agenda. but now we are discussing, for example, the agricultural policy, which is not at all like that, but which will be in force until 2027, and then we have exactly three years to actually implement it. let's move now! let's take this very scenario one and work it into current policy so that we can do justice to what we set ourselves as a goal.
madam president, my dear mr frans! europe has an outstanding opportunity to bring together social, environmental and economic justice issues with the 17 development goals for 2030. this is not only a matter for europe, but also for the whole world. these objectives must become the catalyst and the engine of our european policy. i am grateful that you said at the hearing last week that if you were to become commission president, you would make this a matter of principle and put it in the portfolio of every commissioner. you said we need to adjust our consumption and production patterns to that. that's what's important. we started with conflict minerals. we have to keep moving. the german and dutch textile initiatives have now incorporated the legally binding duties of care. this is an important step, and it is clear that this is the social democratic policy we stand for. udo bullmann said: 'we must not only talk about scenarios, but act and implement them'. i call on all of us, i invite all of us. this is an exciting new way of doing politics.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the rapporteurs presented a report on the future of cohesion policy in september. we have worked on over two and a half thousand amendments with the shadow rapporteurs and the committee and voted on them on 22 january. why did we go at such a pace? we want to start negotiations with the council on the future cohesion policy as soon as possible, because i believe we owe it to citizens, regions, cities and communities to have the certainty of planning what they can spend their money on after 2020 and to start implementing their ideas. we shall, i think, propose a good compromise to the house, which should decide on it today. we are asking for 378 billion euros for all the regions of the european union for cohesion policy. and just after the previous debate on sustainability, i am pleased to say that we propose that you allocate 30% of the regional policy funds to climate change. i think that's a very important signal that we're sending out. we want the regions to continue to be divided into three categories: the less developed, the more developed and the transition regions. i think that meets the requirements of the regions. we want - and we support the commission - to make the european union smarter, which is always a good thing, to make it more social and green, but also to make it closer to citizens and to make us more connected, so that both the communication and digital infrastructures are developed. we are following the commission's proposals for massive simplification of procedures. we support that. but we are also committed to a very strong partnership principle: the involvement of the economic and social partners on the one hand, but also of local committed members of parliament in the district assemblies, in the town assemblies, and of the ngos that are active in the regions. we want the child guarantee to be included in the european social fund. we want the social pillar and the national energy and climate plans to be included in the strategic planning of future operational programmes. the european parliament has raised the cofinancing rates of the european funds for the regions to the current level, and even a little higher for the transitional categories, so that there is also sufficient scope to be able to provide the cofinancing that must be provided at national level. it is also important to say at this point that we are not forgetting the outermost regions, which sometimes seem so far away, but which are important for our european union and which hope that the european union will continue to support them in the future. just as we demand that we have a safety net for regions that come into strange situations unexpectedly. i will give you an example: a region is better developed in the current period of aid, falls into a lower status of economic development and then receives even less money in the future. it can't be! i think we need to do something here. i am very pleased that we are introducing an article which puts general horizontal conditions and criteria such as respect for human rights, gender equality, anti-discrimination, the sustainability goals and many others in the focus of future cohesion policy. and i am very pleased that we are using the european social fund esf+ to tackle youth unemployment, poverty and social inclusion, and that we are making significantly more money available for these purposes. two things are particularly important to my group: we want to ensure that in future there is no link between european regional policy and macroeconomic conditionality. we don't think that's appropriate. and a second important point: i am very pleased that we can propose to the house that the rural development fund should be brought back a little more under the umbrella of cohesion policy. we believe that rural development is more than just support for farmers. we must do much more to take these regions on board and develop them.
the committee on budgetary control, which is consultative, has adopted the opinion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. it is important to increase the visibility and engagement of the european union in local authorities and communities, so that people can turn to the eu again and have a positive perception of european policies. in times of right-wing populism and anti-europeism, european cohesion policy is more important than ever and one of the key instruments for building bridges and ensuring economic, social and territorial cohesion in all regions. because people need to feel that the european union is being experienced in their own communities, even beyond the centres and capitals. an important part of the reform discussed here is the reduction of bureaucracy. the deficits are becoming clear. we are told this again and again in our constituencies. but the allocation of funds is also of crucial importance. we must also maintain and even increase support for all municipalities and regions in the new period of support under the multiannual financial framework, despite the difficult circumstances of brexit.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. firstly, the eu's structural funds are not suitable as a punitive and coercive instrument for maintaining the debt brake. they should encourage public investment, not stifle or even penalize it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. there is no reason at all to bow down in hasty obedience to the council and the commission. secondly, we consider that the possibility of transferring funds from the regional funds to investeu is a serious mistake and is contrary to the objectives of cohesion policy, namely the equalization of living conditions. the limitation of the transferable appropriations to 2.5% of the structural funds is inconsistent, because it is absurd to divert funds from the ever-diminishing cohesion funds to the inflated investeu fund.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu's cohesion policy is a mix of bright and dark. of course, cohesion policy is a regional policy, that is quite clear. on the other hand, we are constantly receiving indications that absurd projects are being implemented, that we are also seeing distortions of competition. we must therefore strictly examine all projects to see whether they are really worthwhile. above all, they must also promote these regions in a sustainable way, making them fit for the future. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of subsidiarity to the development of the regions of the community is a good one. because in the less developed areas, we need to advance infrastructure projects, such as transport projects, digitization, but also invest in education. to do this, we need to define clear and measurable objectives. we must then also check whether these objectives are actually being achieved, because if they are not, then we must stop these measures. otherwise we are wasting taxpayers' money, because we should not pretend that the money the eu spends falls from the sky. it must be generated by the citizens first, and that is why we must spend this money sparingly. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for your question, mr president. of course i did. as i said, we must use cohesion policy and the means to make these regions fit for the future. and what is closer to that than spending money on research, on education, so that these regions can invest in their human capital? so, in fact, they're the best investments we can make. we must focus on these areas: digitisation, education, research and development.
the rapporteur. the commission is not i would like to return briefly to one aspect of the debate, namely the question of flexibility between the funds and other european union programmes. we propose in our compromise that the regions, for example, may finance research projects which cannot be financed under horizon because the budget may not be sufficient, through the structural funds. we propose that regions may cooperate with investeu up to a certain limit. and we propose that we transfer an appropriate contribution, namely four billion euros, to the connecting europe facility. and we also suggest that we have a balanced flexibility between the funds, which allows the regions to invest in projects precisely. for us, that means: for greater efficiency - yes, but we do not want cohesion policy to be reduced by further transfers. we are voting today on a modern cohesion policy for the citizens of the european union. and that is why i would like to appeal to my colleagues to give their consent to the report that mr novakov and i are presenting. i would like to thank you very much for the excellent cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs and with the other rapporteurs. i would like to thank the secretariat, the staff of the group and my colleagues. it was a great collaboration. i think we are proposing a good result, one that we can really say is for the good of our regions, for the good of the people who live in the cities and the communities. let's get on with it! let us then also begin the negotiations, the trilogue with the council, so that the regions can have planning certainty as soon as possible.
the next item is the vote on the motions for resolutions. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes) i would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that in recent months we have had a great many motions for resolutions before the votes, which in the end were not motions for resolutions. i do not want to get too close to any of the concerns that are occasionally raised, and in most cases i wholeheartedly support them. but i intend to do so in such a way that i will withdraw the floor from anyone who does not come to the agenda. i would therefore ask you to state the reason for your intervention and the relevant rule at the beginning of your speech.
mr viotti, that was certainly a point of order. we'll look into it.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. whether in germany or in the eu, our tax system is unfair. the gap between rich and poor is widening. in germany alone, almost one in three people cannot afford unexpected expenses of up to eur 1 000 at present. in absolute terms, this affects 20 830 000 people in germany alone. in addition, the number of children living in poverty on the one hand and the number of millionaires on the other has doubled since 2005. the poverty of one is the wealth of another. in the meantime, corporations are made easier to tax dumping, which costs the eu member states several hundred billion euros a year. top earners and the wealthy are touched with velvet gloves, while the masses are asked to cash. vat remains one of the main sources of revenue for the state, while gangsters in pinstripes are enriching themselves at the expense of taxpayers by embezzling from cumex. such a tax system is poison to society because it destroys social cohesion. we need high and effective eu-wide minimum corporate taxes to prevent tax dumping, europe-wide standards for taxing wealth and top income, a digital tax that lives up to its name, and a comprehensive financial transaction tax. we are creating an effective top-down redistribution that counters the growing inequality.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think that nothing in europe is more dangerous to social cohesion than the great injustices in taxation. it destroys confidence in democracy when people feel that those who could actually contribute more to social cohesion are no longer effectively asked to cash in. it's crucial that everyone contributes their fair share to the community. contrary to some prejudices, a lot has happened in europe in recent years. we have pushed the commission across the political groups in the european parliament, and the commission has put forward more sensible proposals against financial crime and tax dumping than any commission before. however, it is also true that, although some of these have been decided, some of the very big proposals - particularly on the harmonisation of corporate taxation, digital taxation, transparency of tax payments by large companies and measures against the €50 billion annual vat fraud in europe - have not yet been decided. the most important obstacle is that we still have unanimity in the council on taxation matters. this is the brake on tax justice in europe. and that is why it is right that we overcome this principle of unanimity in the council. but it is not just the individual tax havens that are blocking the way here, but the contradictions between the great unity here in parliament and the behaviour of the member states in the council are glaring. we have a liberal government in the netherlands which blocks european tax cooperation. we have the grand coalition in germany blocking tax transparency for big companies and digital taxation, and we have christian democratic governments blocking tax cooperation in europe, for example, from ireland. and that, ladies and gentlemen, is not the case. if we are ensuring tax justice across the political groups here, then so must the member parties and the governments concerned throughout europe. and so let us discuss this issue of double language in tax justice openly and honestly in this european election, because only europe can, through cooperation, finally close tax havens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the debate on how we are going to achieve this is therefore right and important. but it's also important to me that we do this based on facts. and the fact is, in this election cycle, a lot has happened in the fight for fairer corporate taxation. it is a success for us as the european parliament, because we have always been uncomfortable and have put our finger in the wound. the anti-beps action plan has been implemented, the automatic exchange of information between tax authorities has been extended - we should not minimize all this. before we consider new measures, it is certainly not wrong to look at the effects of the legislation, whether there are still loopholes and where improvements need to be made. i am not in favour of demands such as the introduction of an effective minimum rate of corporation tax. i also find it hard to understand the excitement that effective tax rates are generally lower than nominal tax rates, because companies make use of legally required and voluntary deductions, for example for research funding or for company pension provisions. do we want to give up that by changing the tax code? or have we not decided otherwise elsewhere? so we should just be honest and continue to make these opportunities possible. so before we throw the kid out with the bath, i'm very much in favour of us analyzing what we've accomplished and then building on that, looking at what we still need to do.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to follow up on what mr giegold has just made clear. if we want to make progress in europe in the field of corporate taxation and if we want to abolish a situation which mr bay of the enf has just criticised, then we need a european instrument which makes it impossible for individual member states or several member states to simply prevent any meaningful development which makes it impossible for multinational companies to pay a decent amount of tax here in this european union. if we want to achieve at european level that multinational companies pay their share of the total tax burden, as compared to smes, this will only work if we can set the appropriate framework conditions at european level. and they will never come as long as individuals or the association of a few at european level can block what they want because we have unanimity in the area of taxation. it is therefore essential - if we are to take the decisive step towards greater tax justice at this point - that we move from unanimity to qualified majority solutions. if we do not succeed in doing so, if we maintain the conditions we have at the moment, then exactly what mr giegold has outlined will happen, namely that we will see a lack of acceptance on the part of the population for the pan-european system at this point. and if we want to convince people that europe is here to advocate for tax justice between small and large companies, if we want to convince people that europe is here to advocate for tax justice between the ordinary wage-earning taxpayer and the multinational corporations, then we have to deliver at this point. and for that we need a qualified majority at european level, because that is the only way europe can act effectively.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not saying that the commissioner has not been consulted, but i am saying that the commission has not been consulted. it is, of course, an incredible injustice that in a country like luxembourg today most companies pay only 2.2% of taxes, when, as we heard at the beginning, google and facebook pay 0.8% or 0.4% of taxes. it's a social injustice. for how happy would the worker who goes to work every morning and comes back struggling through traffic at night be if he had to pay only 2.0%, 0.4% or 0.8% in taxes? and what happens to these taxes that are collected? public contracts, public buildings - there are rising costs everywhere, which are exploding. what should the citizens think when they see that on the other hand migrants get everything free with us: free clothes, free housing, free food, free doctor .... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this is about tax evasion and loopholes. in principle, this house is concerned with tax competition. they want to abolish tax competition between nations. and when mr giegold and mr simon say that we need unanimity, that is exactly what they mean: they do not want tax competition, they want the tax cartel. and everyone knows that a tax cartel leads to higher taxes. that's the point of a tax cartel. that's what they say, more fair taxes means more taxes for you. i'm not going to. higher taxes are burdening consumers and businesses, and then comes the digital tax. i don't know what this is all about. i mean, there are theories of overthrow: those who pay taxes are not the ones who bear the taxes. i'd like to see some of the theories and facts of the tax override. no one in this house has looked at what happens to the money that is earned. if it has been reinvested, it is well invested, because when it is poured out to the states, something socially absurd is being done. the important thing is that companies invest. that's what it's all about.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it is true that we have had very good cooperation on this legislation in parliament, and i would like to thank you very much. that was constructive, and that was really very important. because it's like, what have we accomplished? that we want to make it faster for patients to access drugs because we want to have decentralized approval. it doesn't make any sense that we just instead of just going through this once centrally, we're going to go through this up to 28 times, as it is right now. this is really not what we need. and in principle, this simplification benefits both patients and authorities, scientists - in fact, everyone, including manufacturers. the fact is that the member states were initially very sceptical. so it was large member states like my own - germany - and spain that protested and said: 'this is not an eu-level issue. i think they're wrong. it is important that everyone, including small countries that may not have as strong research, can benefit, that people everywhere in the eu can benefit from a central accreditation. so i think it's perfectly good that we have this law now. i was interested from the outset in seeing where the member states might need to have their own expertise and also in seeing what was happening with medical devices. i was rapporteur, as was mrs borzan, on the regulation on medical devices. and we have just passed something a year ago that is supposed to give medical devices a higher safety standard, better performance requirements, etc. - regardless of their class. we also have the clinical value. i did not realise that we should now - before the whole thing is implemented - make the same demands on hta. i would therefore have liked to have said: we are making a strong law here on medicines and medical devices, which we will look at later. that wasn't quite the compromise line. but we have found a - i think - very good compromise in which we have narrowed the application to medical devices very much. i would like to mention something else that has not yet been mentioned, something that was not in the commission proposal: these were methods that can be outlined for the implementation of hta. they're in now. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. finally, it is also important that we have now taken into account national rating systems, which are sometimes different. for example, in the case of the reimbursement basis, there are different definitions of survival and quality of life. this is not weighted equally everywhere, and therefore it must also be possible to apply national criteria without duplication. it is a pity that the member states do not follow us, otherwise we could negotiate. that would be good for the patients in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. can you imagine that a new cancer drug that's just come on the market and has been positively evaluated by the european medicines agency is extending the lives of patients in france by one year, in germany by two years, and in italy by none? i can't imagine what that would be like. fortunately, there are national differences, differences in mentality, but we europeans are quite similar in the way we take medicines. it is therefore necessary to be able to standardize this scientific part of the evaluation in europe. it is a waste of resources if both the authorities of the member states and the companies or other applicants have to do it 26 or 27 times. i therefore still believe that the commission has made a good proposal and that parliament has made a wise statement on this. we should not exaggerate, mrs konečná: ethical evaluation is a matter for the member states - the member states have a strong competence - but as far as scientific evaluation is concerned, it must be possible. i regret that the council has not been prepared to do so. we have taken all the legitimate concerns of the council into account in our decision-making and it is therefore a pity that we have to take this decision tomorrow. but we should keep up the pressure. this proposal must not die, but must be decided upon at some point.
(president-in-office of the council)on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i am here on behalf of the high representative to convey her message on this subject of great importance for european and global security. the treaty on intermediate-range nuclear forces in europe (inf), signed by presidents reagan and gorbachev in 1987, is among the key international agreements which marked the end of the cold war. while neither the european union nor any of the eu member states are parties to the inf, we do have a very high stake in the preservation and the implementation of this treaty. due to the inf, some 3 000 missiles with nuclear and conventional warheads have been removed and have been destroyed. this happened under mutual supervision in the form of on-site inspections. the inf treaty is also an important contribution to the disarmament obligation under article 6 of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty (npt). the eu and its member states are united in their support for the npt, which remains the cornerstone of the global nuclear non—proliferation regime, the essential foundation for nuclear disarmament and an important element in the future development of nuclear energy applications for peaceful purposes. the npt has made a crucial contribution to international peace, security and stability over the last 30 years. let me recall that all npt states parties are committed to pursuing policies that are fully in line with the treaty and the objective of achieving a world without nuclear weapons. we, as the union, stress the need for concrete progress towards the full implementation of article 6 of the npt, especially through an overall reduction in the global stockpile of nuclear weapons, taking into account the special responsibility of the states that possess the largest number of warheads, namely the russian federation and the united states. but the inf treaty is not only about prohibition of intermediate-range nuclear-armed missiles, it is about an entire category of ballistic and cruise missiles, regardless of their warheads. in the view of the high representative, the united states and the russian federation need to remain engaged in constructive dialogue to preserve the inf treaty and ensure its full and verifiable implementation, which is crucial for europe’s, and global, security. obviously an arms control treaty which is not respected by all of its parties is not sustainable. the eu, our member states and the united states have raised many times in moscow our serious concerns regarding russia’s compliance with the inf. these concerns have not been addressed so far, and the treaty now seems to be on its way to unravelling. the inf is not outdated and we, as europeans, very much hope that the inf treaty will still be saved. we do not want to return to a cold war. we do not want another arms race in europe or anywhere else in the world. we call on all parties to urgently engage in a dialogue on strategic stability with arms control at its core. arms control is crucial to our collective security. the world does not need a new arms race that would benefit no one and, on the contrary, would being even more instability. thank you for your attention. this was what the high representative would like to share you, and i do so on her behalf.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the inf treaty and its continued existence are in the best interests of europe. we have seen since 1987 and the implementation of this treaty that a whole category of weapons has disappeared from european soil. that should stay with you. the more regrettable is that we have had to and unfortunately have to conclude that the russian federation has already been violating this treaty for several years - the obama administration has already concluded this. of course, a contract that seems to bind only one party is not sustainable in the long run. nevertheless, we cannot tolerate the fact that both sides have finally seized the opportunity to withdraw from this agreement. we therefore call for russia and the united states to come back to the table, and if we europeans can help, we should do so. we expect the same from our executive. we should also always bear in mind that the loss of this treaty is also a bad omen for other categories of weapons, namely strategic weapons. the start treaty expires in 2021 and i fear that if we cannot maintain this inf treaty in substance, then we will also see a threat to the start treaty. this cannot be accepted politically.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am sure that almost all of us in this chamber want and support the continuation and preservation of the inf treaty. and that is why we must also think about what we can do in the european parliament to ensure that the inf treaty remains in force. i would also like to say this because we as the left group believe that the struggle and the quest for disarmament, peace and stability on the european continent must be and must remain the central concern of the eu's political and all its member states' foreign policy. yes, and nuclear disarmament in particular must be mentioned first these days again. the resolution, which in many respects emphasizes this point, is also aimed at this. but i mean, we're also circling around a concrete question. the united states is withdrawing from all international agreements and institutions. the existence of europe is now in danger. if the eu ambassador in washington is demoted, then that also has to do with how american foreign policy is to be shaped today. and this is also coupled with the actions of president putin, who is reacting to this central strategy of the united states, so to speak, one on one. the violation of the nuclear disarmament agreement started in 2002 with the abm treaty. and now we have the situation again: what is the future of the inf treaty? today's press conference by nato secretary general jens stoltenberg made it very clear what is also behind this facade: the allies don't want to respond one-on-one, but they say we're going to deploy an additional 30 warships, 30 land battalions, 30 air squadrons within the next 30 days or shortly thereafter. and as a result, an additional $41 billion in defense spending is being added. this means that the european continent is once again in danger of becoming the plaything of an arms race. we should not allow the nuclear arms games between the united states and the russian federation to be played out on the backs of the people of europe. we also do not need a new deployment of intermediate-range missiles wherever by the russian federation and the united states. we must therefore really work towards diplomatic negotiations to make the inf treaty and possible further multilateral agreements possible.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not global disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons is one of the most important goals of our time. for us europeans, the threat of the inf treaty being abrogated is a step into a dangerous world. the european union must now take the lead with the member states and mediate between russia and the united states. it is therefore of key importance to pursue multilateral nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation by all political means. this is my urgent request to the high representative and the vice-president. neither russia, the united states, china or any other country will make their countries safer by a nuclear arms race and more missiles. the more nuclear weapons - short-, medium- or long-range - are aimed at major cities, the greater the risk that millions of people will suffer agonizing deaths because of miscalculation or technical failure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that hasn't happened recently. the european union must not be left with the legacy of a future european hiroshima.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the withdrawal of the inf treaty by washington and moscow is a dangerous mistake on both sides - a dangerous one especially for us in europe. i am outraged by the apparent lack of effort to save and develop it. moscow could have long ago presented credible evidence against western accusations, and washington could have long ago pressed for negotiations. if the new start treaty is not renewed in 2021, we will be in a situation where, for the first time since the mid-1960s, there is no international treaty to limit or prevent nuclear weapons. we need a better inf treaty, with better checks on both sides. but one more thing: if you want to bring china on board, you have to find other ways than breaking the rules. i expect, above all, a visible effort from the eu foreign minister and the high representative. do not accept that we become a pawn in someone else's geostrategic plans! it's about our safety first and our children's safety second.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. in the early 1980s, russia built up its missile arsenal and the west used its own missiles to force it to eliminate all medium-range missiles. today russia is building missiles again, and we are not negotiating, but the americans are withdrawing from a treaty which the russians are happy to withdraw from, because then there are no legal obligations to which we can point the russians. that is why i think it is wrong for russia to break the treaty, but it is also wrong for the united states to withdraw prematurely, which only serves the interests of the russians. we know that we are in a different situation today because of china and others, that the dualism is not there as it was in 1980. but i think that to force a treaty to be maintained and to negotiate on the basis of a treaty which brings transparency and involves the other nuclear powers is better than to abandon a treaty where there is no chance and where we too must be prepared to express transparency by also offering that the missile systems in romania, for example, be taken into account in such a question, in order to find a new starting point and to have talks here. transparency is everything here, and that's what washington and moscow should be prepared to do.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the withdrawal of the us and russia from the inf treaty is a serious mistake. but the meager, uncommitted phrases with which mr ciamba demonstrated the eu's security policy eunuchism for four minutes here - in front of just 29 members - are also a serious mistake. mr ciamba did not speak as if it were a question of survival, but as if it were a bureaucratic side issue. and what this parliament is discussing obviously does not interest it either. mr. ciamba, could you try to listen? mr ciamba, would you listen! it goes well with the lack of commitment and the arrogance. we don't want an arms race. yeah, we don't want to have any rain either. but what are you doing? you have not said a word about what initiatives should be taken. brok made some suggestions. why don't you make some? we also have to include the fact that china is now playing a role in this debate. you don't mention that. we greens are against it. we have decided that the weapons that were banned by the inf, which russia is now putting into place, will also be stationed on our side. we fight against this kind of retrofitting. but all this is of no use to us unless we act together as europeans to prevent this escalation from happening. wake up, please!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i grew up as a child in the peace movement in east germany and i have very well understood what it means to experience this danger of war within europe here. the inf treaty has made europe safe for thirty years against the background of land-based medium-range nuclear weapons. that is why it is in the best interests of us europeans in particular to have a reset here, through the united states and russia, both of whom must sit down at the same table. russia must also disarm the cruise missiles it has developed in recent years and finally establish transparency. this is not the time to discuss the development and relocation of missiles. the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe. we'll have to work on that. we must make sure that we speak with one voice. this is very important so that we can address russia and america here together. europe must be transparent, including on military bases and the situation in poland and romania. we must help to bring about new negotiations so that the new start treaty does not expire in 2021 and that we continue to focus on disarmament.
blue-card question. – you will like my question, my question is: was it president trump who broke the inf or president putin?
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. when we talked about the need to learn from the united states in investment screening three years ago, we were often met with complete misunderstanding. we've learned a lot in three years. i would like to thank, like mr proust, all the institutions involved in this successful exercise, and in particular the commission. it was a very pleasant cooperation. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. you handled this wonderfully. investment screening was viewed with scepticism by many member states when it was first put forward. we can see today that there has been a change of opinion. a number of member states, which initially did not want to tackle this with tweezers, have now come to believe that they must do so actively. the important thing to remember is that we are not trying to be protectionist, but we are not being blind. it is not an instrument of industrial policy but an instrument for the defence of security and public order. we have indeed worked quickly, and i am grateful for this cooperation. we will certainly have to take further steps in this area. but it shows that this union is capable of taking action in the face of new challenges and of finding new ways forward.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the ecr would also like to thank mr proust for the constructive and pleasant atmosphere he has created. the protection against foreign acquisitions and investments is legitimate on grounds of security and public order. it is also useful to exchange information between eu countries. however, the use of this instrument must remain narrowly confined. it must not be allowed to deter the vast majority of legitimate interests. the investment and legal certainty must not be called into question. the ecr attaches great importance to ensuring that this instrument is not introduced or applied for protectionist reasons, as the eu benefits more than almost any other location from investments from outside the eu. this danger was mentioned in the original report. the politicization of screening by third parties would have brought to the fore aspects beyond security and public order. that would have given rise to protectionism. the ecr was therefore the only group to vote against the report. the agreement reached in the trilogue has changed some of the crucial aspects for us to a positive one. parliament's influence on the decision on individual cases has not been realised. the final decision in any investment case is taken by the member states, hence the principle of subsidiarity. member states that do not have a screening mechanism will not be forced to introduce it. the trialogue agreement creates legal certainty and, in the ecr's view, meets the necessary requirements, and that is why we will agree.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very grateful that we are expected to vote in favour of this proposal by a large majority tomorrow. i am particularly grateful because we have had a long debate on this subject in many member states, including here in parliament. perhaps one of the reasons why we finally got some movement was that frank proust and some colleagues from our group used the indirect right of initiative of the european parliament and thus also signalled that there is support here in parliament. what is important to me is that tomorrow we will take a good step, but please, just a first step. i think it is good that the member states are making the decisions at the moment. but i will say quite frankly that when i look at how dominant many foreign governments are already in our member states, how small some member states are in the global context and how small all our member states are in the global context, i wish that in the next step - perhaps in the next election period - we would find majorities to take the next step, to give the european commission more power. and i wish we would rethink the scope of this as well. i am thinking of the amount of money we are investing in the next european research framework programme, and i hope that, in the event of doubt, we will also have the means, as you have indicated, madam commissioner, to protect our research results from foreign acquisitions, if necessary.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. there is no question that we must protect ourselves within the european union against investments which are not purely economic but serve other interests, as we have seen in the recent past, particularly from china, but also from other countries. the commission proposal is therefore very welcome. i must say, however, that parliament has not had a particularly lucky hand in trying to improve this proposal. i would have been very happy if we had taken what came out of the commission without improving or worsening it here in parliament. because in trying to intervene we have taken on some protectionist elements. i think we're going overboard in some areas. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote, but i am saying that it should be the only institution in the world to have the right to vote. it is quite clear that if we take this from the national level and thus from the level where strategic interests are actually involved to the european level, we will only be shifting the problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and when you say that small countries may not be able to protect themselves against this alone, you are right. but it is also clear that small countries may not be able to protect themselves against the interests of large countries within the european union. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr pretzell, i can assure you that the concern you have just expressed is unnecessary, because the direction proposed by daniel caspari will not find a majority in parliament. it is not a protectionist instrument and will not become one.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. well, i'm not sure that's supposed to make me feel better coming from you. but i really hope you're right.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, it is a pleasure to be here ahead of the final vote on the proposal for mutual recognition of goods. as you know, this is a very important proposal for the commission. let me first recall why we felt it was necessary to act. mutual recognition is essential for the proper functioning of the single market for goods. it is about cutting red tape and making things simpler. where no specific eu legislation is in place, member states are free to set national rules that lay down requirements to be met by products. such national requirements can coexist in various member states. a product that can sell in one member state, you should also be allowed to sell in any other member state. that is a mutual recognition principle but evidence suggests that neither businesses nor national authorities make sufficient use of it. many businesses do not even know about mutual recognition and just take national technical rules for granted. many of those who know about it prefer not to rely on it as they find it rather unpredictable. those who try to invoke mutual recognition to sell their products on other markets are often faced with denials or restrictions. their only choice is to go to the national court procedures – very long and costly. as a consequence, businesses prefer to adapt their products to national applicable requirements or give up entering the market and authorities find it difficult to apply. national authorities are often cautious in accepting products marketed in another member state. the lack of trust in rules that differ from their own makes them apply their own national requirements and deny mutual recognition. this is still one of the biggest remaining barriers to the single market for goods. today, cardigans, shoes, notebooks, tableware, different goods, lawfully sold in one member state can still, unjustifiably, be rejected in another member state. businesses lose market opportunities and consumers don’t benefit from increased choice and lower prices. with this new regulation we are moving to meet business and consumer expectations, and we are hoping to prevent further missed opportunities. by removing the remaining barriers to the functioning of the single market for goods, intra-eu trade could increase by more than eur 100 billion per year. so i welcome the cooperation and support in the negotiations and i would like to particularly thank the rapporteur, mr štefanec, and shadow rapporteurs for the great work on this file. the negotiations were very constructive. this is why they were also speedy. we reached agreement in just under a year. this shows that we are all aware of why this is important. i welcome the compromise that we have reached. it will transfer mutual recognition in a reliable and efficient tool for businesses wanting to trade in a single market and it will benefit national authorities. the voluntary mutual recognition declaration will make it easier for economic operators to demonstrate that their products are lawfully marketed in another member state and will make it easier to solve problems, building on solid foundations. it will offer economic operators a business-friendly alternative to long and costly court proceedings. businesses will be more easily able to fight unjustified market access restrictions by using the problem-solving procedure and defend their right to mutual recognition. the commission will intervene in this procedure, providing the expertise to assist solid centres in solving the case. we will put in place stronger administrative cooperation to facilitate the application of the mutual recognition principle, especially in sectors where the application is problematic. i welcome the importance parliament attaches to strong administrative cooperation in this area. national authorities can discuss common problems and their chosen solutions. it is only by creating trust amongst them that we will have a true culture of mutual recognition. in addition, the commission will implement an action plan on mutual recognition to complement this proposal. we will focus on raising awareness for businesses and authorities alike and emphasise the role of mutual recognition. and we will give special attention to sectors where the use of mutual recognition is economically advantageous but has been problematic or insufficient to date.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr ivan štefanec, for his excellent work. the fact is that there are still a number of goods in the european internal market for which there are no harmonization rules. and in the area of these goods, the old principle of the past is that a product which has been legally produced in one member state should be legally marketed in all the other member states. unfortunately, this is often a principle that is not universally applied. for example, in the united kingdom there are special provisions for the fire safety of furniture which are not applicable in any other member state of the european union. and that, of course, can be a bit of protectionism. this is the case in many member states, but also in those which always claim that they do not apply such measures. it is therefore good that mr štefanec and the other members have stressed that these obstacles can and must be removed step by step. the member states do not always like this, but the truth is that if they want to avoid harmonisation, they must in fact apply the principle of mutual recognition in full. and there are procedural rules which the commissioner has mentioned. solvit is certainly a procedure that can help. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not enough for one member state to provide many people, another member state which is causing problems but has only one person, then it does not work. so there is still a lot to improve, but the step that is being taken with this regulation is really great. therefore, a heartfelt thank you to ivan štefanec.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. first of all, i'd like to thank robert zīle and the shadow reporters for their excellent cooperation, even though we had some strong differences. the commission has always regarded germany as a successful example. after the liberalisation in 2013, there were initially many long-distance bus companies on the market, today there is only one, a monopoly. that is why germany is not a model of success. in addition, the working conditions are completely ignored. drivers often have to stay overnight on their buses, or spend time preparing the bus before and after the trip, checking tickets and giving information. all this does not have to be counted as travel time i.e. paid . the unfair competition with the environmentally friendly railway is made even more unfair by the fact that no train driver is obliged to do so. the toll is also waived for long-distance buses, while every locomotive must pay a toll for every kilometre of the route throughout the eu. a means of transport made cheap by price dumping must not be additionally subsidised. unfortunately, all our amendments were rejected in committee. i also believe that there is no point in revising the regulation until mobility package 1 has been adopted. the social rules on driving and rest periods have a decisive impact on the long-distance bus market. the first step is to clarify this for the benefit of the workers. the greens/efa group therefore rejects the commission's proposal as a whole.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in germany, domestic long-distance bus services have been liberalised since 2013. what has been the result? more and more consumers have been able to travel long distances inexpensively and safely using the environmentally friendly bus. the increasing number of bus passengers, especially from rural areas, speaks for itself. this must be possible in crossborder traffic. i am glad that this text has succeeded in making the market at least a little fairer and more open throughout europe, while at the same time preserving the subsidiarity of the member states. as access to terminals must be guaranteed in a non-discriminatory manner, this means that requests for access should not only be refused if there is no capacity available, but also if, for example, the bus company continuously refuses to pay or breaches the rules of procedure. i am glad that these points have been included in the text. in the case of long-distance bus services, cabotage is not a problem, since the route is always approved by the host member state before it can be operated. this means that timetables with specific travel times and routes are defined and approved in advance. this makes long distance bus journeys really controllable, unlike truck journeys. the criteria and framework conditions for bus transport are therefore different from those for lorry transport. the liberalisation of long-distance bus services and the mobility package 1 have nothing to do with each other. thank you to robert, louis, and the other shadow reporters.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. what are we talking about now? the long-distance bus. a bus can hold a lot of people. we always talk about the need to see, in the context of decarbonizing transport, that we have more transport where collectively many people can ride. the bus is clearly one such means. we have already had some of the municipal buses that make up public transport; they should certainly continue to exist. we have railways, but we don't have them everywhere. that has been said before. i'm from germany, we have a good railway network. but that is not the case in all countries. that is why we need a way of collectively transporting several people, and buses are a good way of doing that, because there are more roads in europe than trains. that's the one thing. i think that this liberalization of long-distance buses is really good. even in germany - and the greens in the bundestag have also welcomed this - this was introduced because it can bring more people together in a single means of transport. i think it's a great job that robert zīle has done here. i thank the commission for its proposal. we should move in this direction in a harmonized europe, so that we can transport more people together everywhere - in this case by bus. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. gesine, you mentioned that the greens have agreed to the liberalization of the long-distance bus. that's true, but under fair conditions, and one of the conditions we made was that the bus drivers, the buses, would pay a toll just like the trains have to. you can't make the environmentally friendly railway expensive artificially , and everything on the bus has to be cheap. that is why we agreed to it, but then we did not, because the toll is not fair competition if it applies on one side and not on the other. what do you say? you're for the toll as much as you are for the buses?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i can say that i followed this closely, that the greens did not mention the toll as a condition. she didn't come. but you still agreed to the buses because you realized that even relative to the individual passenger, it can give a better carbon footprint than, say, even the train. i've been following this with great interest and i know that's why the toll wasn't the condition, but it was completely different criteria that led you to agree; and they were right. the fact that the development should be monitored is another matter.
member of the commission. – madam president, allow me, one more time, to thank mr zīle and all the members who have contributed to this proposal. i very much welcome the broad support expressed tonight and i took note of certain concerns that were raised, so allow me to respond to the main points. first, a general comment on public services. commercial services carrying passengers over distances of 100km or more will concern only a small proportion of public-service contracts throughout the eu because many routes operated as part of public-service contracts are under 100km long, and passenger journeys on them are implicitly shorter. in addition, public services – and not only those with exclusive rights – can remain protected. i hope that clarifies the first point that was raised. let me also stress again that this proposal does not affect the social conditions applicable to bus and coach drivers. as rightly mentioned by mr zīle, those social conditions are regulated in another piece of legislation, which is being revised under mobility package i. and, in its proposal on rest and driving time, the commission does not propose to change the rules which apply specifically to bus drivers. on the environmental requirements, i would like to clarify that the authorisation procedures proposed by the commission, which are mentioned in mr zīle’s report, provide a clear possibility for member states to impose environmental performance requirements and to control them – provided, of course, that those requirements are imposed on all operators on a non—discriminatory basis. on the fourth point, regarding charging rules applicable to bus transport, mr cramer, let me also underline that the commission has proposed, in mobility package i, new rules contributing to a level playing field for different modes of transport. so i’m inviting everyone, please, to support mobility package i because it resolves many issues that honourable members find challenging in the current situation. i hope, mr cramer, that your concerns too can be addressed through the mobility package. allow me also to make one last comment on the proposed motion of rejection that has been tabled. this would be a big missed opportunity for the sector and for citizens. if the proposal were rejected the sector would not be able to benefit from common rules across the eu. and you know what such rules mean: a bigger market, better salaries, more competition, better service. so, it would not be able to benefit from common rules across the eu, and instead would be faced with different national rules, as is the case today, and that is what is preventing the sector from expanding. and i’ll tell you who would lose most: low—income groups and those living in remote areas. we want every single village to be connected. honourable members will know that, in the next commission programme, we have also proposed ‘smart villages’, and mobility is an essential part of that new concept because we do not want any part of the eu to be excluded from development. we want all parts to be connected and fully engaged with modern european union opportunities. that is what is at stake, and i know that it is pre—election time but please bear in mind the benefits that we are bringing, and let’s deliver as much as we can during this parliament’s term because european citizens really need this.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the naiades ii action programme to promote inland navigation (2018/2882 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, an eu policy on inland navigation is crucial, since inland waterways are the most co2 efficient mode of transport, with an important and untapped potential. i would like to thank parliament for its effort to tackle this untapped potential by tabling this resolution on naiades ii, calling for a follow—up programme for post—2020 and the related financial support to implement the programme. this resolution will support the conclusion of the mid—term progress report of the current naiades ii programme and the digital inland waterway area (dina) report, mapping digital initiatives. these reports emphasise the need to continue working to put inland waterways transport in the place it deserves in terms of a reduction of the overall environmental impact of transport. for the inland waterways transport sector, it is crucial to be part of the fundamental transformation that the big game changers – which are of course digitalisation, decarbonisation, investments, innovation, and people – are bringing to transport and logistics. the eu’s position in relation to inland waterways transport is that of strong support. a key objective of eu transport policy is multimodality, and – as you may recall – i spent a lot of time and energy in 2018 in promoting multimodality. we even called 2018 the ‘year of multimodality’. the commission considers it important to increase the integration of inland waterways transport into the overall transport system. that is why we proposed the revision of the combined transport directive, which would allow further support for the combined transport operations, making use of inland waterways on the non-road leg. in my final year as transport commissioner, the smooth implementation of the directive on technical standards and on professional qualification for inland waterways is a priority. we will also continue to look at how best we can bring digitalisation to the sector and link it better into the whole logistic network, especially considering its fragmented character and primarily family-run businesses. apart from that, we will continue our efforts related to the completion of the trans-european transport networks (ten-t). a more committed effort aimed at improving european waterways and their connectivity is needed at a governance level. your call to reinforce financial support for inland waterways through the connecting europe facility (cef) and horizon europe was indeed proposed by the commission for the next financial period. it is now under discussion between member states and parliament, and i hope that the outcome of these discussions will be beneficial for the sector. this is why i am pleased that the follow-up programme you propose in your resolution will reinforce the commission’s activities in this field. the european group of naiades, set up by the commission and to which member states and the members of the european parliament are invited, will already start to reflect and analyse the content of parliament’s resolution and its proposed follow-up programme from next month. i do, however, have to stress that the adoption and implementation of this programme will, of course, be subject to the orientation of the next commission. thank you very much again for your resolution and your support for inland waterways.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i would like to thank our rapporteurs. it is indeed so. of course, everyone who is speaking today is convinced that inland navigation is an important thing. i can go along with wim van de camp: it is a particularly good means of transport. except he's from the netherlands, and i'm from germany. there are many rivers and canals. you can't get that anywhere in europe. but where there is this, inés, you spoke of the ebro for example, you can also use the river, and that is necessary. most people forget that. we're always talking about moving from the street to the railway. there is no mention of road or rail transport. and we can't build new railroads as fast as we can use rivers more. and that's what we need. naiades shows us how we can digitize river navigation, make it more modern, make it more environmentally friendly, even more environmentally friendly with liquefied gas for example, how we can have good qualification for this area - we have just recently created a harmonization for the qualification. that means this area has a huge future. we can also build a bridge with much less money, for example, so that twice as many containers can be transported than we can build railways at the same time. we need both, or all three, but we certainly need more inland waterways than railways. and focusing on that and putting money into that is what naiades is all about, and that's very important and very good.
i have to say, madam president, i also think that all those who are still here at this time must have a heart for inland navigation. i also welcome the action programme on inland navigation and waterways. i welcome the fact that we have invested 1.7 billion euros from the cef in waterway infrastructure. and the 4 million we are now spending on safe navigation is certainly money well spent. all of this is ecologically very sensible and socially very acceptable. but, ladies and gentlemen, this is only the tip of the iceberg. the truth is that most of the canals in europe are just not suitable for the european ship that we do not have a trace of a throughput here. the truth is that we do not need 1.7 billion euros for locks and bridge extensions, but 100 billion euros. these are the dimensions of how this is spread out. let us therefore at least fight for a strongly invested cef in the next financial period. i also believe that the earmarking of cohesion funds for the cef is simply part of that. unfortunately, parliament voted differently today. i am sure that the commission and the council will not be able to accept this shortsightedness. there's just more cargo to put on the waterway. let's fight for it together!
a motion for a resolution was tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 14 february 2019. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the security threats linked to china's growing technological presence in the eu and possible measures to reduce them at eu level (2019/2575 ((rsp)).
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. for those who thought that china only makes plastic toys, i think it's time to learn something new. china is a space nation. the country has produced world-class technology and mobility companies. you probably test the care of the machining and assembly yourself every day with your phone or computer. in the future technologies of artificial intelligence and electromobility, chinese manufacturers are now ahead of their european competitors. this gap also exists between silicon valley and, for me, the huawei group, when we talk about 5g technology. i think we just need to talk about this again. we do not need exclusion or futile attempts at containment. we need cooperation to deal with issues including digital security. the eu already employs more than 180 000 people for this largest chinese tech company - a private company, by the way, no matter how loudly the media reports it. but cooperation also creates prospects for employees, and this is also true for many other global companies from other countries. we also need cooperation to design the necessary regulation for the new technologies from china with china and multilaterally. this is the only way to prevent the misuse and theft of data by anyone, which is a real problem, which is made possible by technological developments. we are not going to be able to do that.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the most hot topic regarding china's technological presence in europe is surely the 5g issue. and huawei, which has just been mentioned by mr scholz, has a special role to play in this. you, commissioner, have already referred to the chinese national intelligence law. let me be very clear: we should learn from australia. the conclusion drawn was one which i think is also correct for us: we cannot trust a company which is obliged by the laws of its own country to provide the data of its customers to the authorities of that country on request and to keep the customers in the dark about this transfer of data. such a company cannot be part of the core of our 5g infrastructure. and we should find a common european solution, because this debate is taking place in many different european countries today. i think the whole subject is much broader. and many keywords have been mentioned, from investment screening to cyber security, technology export you might call it. i agree, mr scholz, that we want cooperation. but we cannot operate on the blind assumption that cooperation will be mutually beneficial. we must protect our interests and values.
the debate is closed. (the motions for resolutions to be tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure will be announced at a later date.) the vote will take place at the next partsession.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. a society is always measured by how it treats the weakest, the most vulnerable. it is not just the commission, but the member states, which are the most important players in the world economy. because they are not in the home stable, they are not with the farmer who normally takes care of them, they are often without rights and often without owners. we must make it clear that the eu is not taking advantage of this weakness of the animals. the eu has a responsibility and the eu must take care of it. we clearly need transport times limited to eight hours. we must finally understand that we are supposed to transport meat and not live animals. we need to have regional slaughterhouses again, we need to have regional circuits, we need to have restrictions on high temperatures, we need to have transport restrictions on unweaned calves and unconditional bans on vessels not designed to transport animals. the district of rosenheim is close to mühldorf, which has recently been singled out for its importance in halting such transport. a cow should go 3,000 miles a pregnant cow! the vet stopped it. and i say, that was a responsibility!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. eu regulation 1/2005 is intended to protect animals during transport. but this rule is not strictly adhered to in many member states - we all know that. the evidence has been on the table for years, but the commission has not yet responded with infringement proceedings. on the contrary, the commission itself downplays the violations of the law. the commissioner, why do you pretend to be blind and deaf when it comes to animals, when existing rules for the protection of animals are being broken? why is this a clear violation of article 13 of the lisbon treaty? i say this because you and the commission are following the lead of the farmers' associations, because the interests and protection of animals are always evaluated from behind. the interests of agriculture are always put ahead of the need to protect animals. and let us be honest: the commission also follows the wishes of the european council. animal welfare is not a priority there. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to see a vote on the animal-friendly proposals.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ten years after this eu animal transport regulation, we are talking about its non-compliance. what kind of joke is this if we are changing the rules ourselves and there are no checks and no sanctions? will things continue as they are? it's clear that anyone who has a pet or is a farmer knows that animals have feelings, that animals have pain, that animals can feel pain, that animals can feel joy. why not go the extra mile and require a licence from those transport companies that transport animals? this transport licence must be withdrawn if the conditions are not met. that would be consistent action by the eu. it's good to see the regulations getting better. but it is no use improving the rules and not following them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. one thing is clear, even if the british colleague who has just been talking a lot of nonsense here now goes out: this report is not about brexit. and it is not because of the european union that britain left, but because people like him, mr aker, said things that they cannot do today. if you read the newspapers in britain today, you will see that ford wants to leave the united kingdom precisely because it does not want to have this unregulated brexit on 29 march. and ford is just one of many companies that don't want to go on holiday in the uk, they want to work. that is why the colleague over there should be more concerned about the matter when he speaks here. but of course, mr president - and i'm a little bit further along in time - the european union collected a total of eur 3 700 billion in 2017 from customs duties with other countries of the world, covering 15% of its budget. that's a considerable amount of money. the commissioner can only be congratulated on the fact that she has succeeded time and again, not only in increasing customs revenue through interesting deals, but also in helping european companies to have a chance on the world market. our shadow reporter adam szejnfeld has pointed out that the only way to succeed in the future is for companies to be able to do things digitally. there's a lot of room for improvement. we have already done so in other reports and this is rightly mentioned here. the member states must provide that.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, 14 february 2019. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation in chechnya and the case of ojub titiyev (2019/2562 ((rsp)).
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the director of memorial in chechnya has been in prison for a year on trumped-up charges. in the show trial against ojub titiyev, he faces up to ten years in prison. our concern is particularly directed at him because his predecessor from memorial was murdered in grosny in 2009. this resolution is also a reminder of natalya estemirowa. ojub's family is under constant threat, and his colleagues at memorial are also facing increasing persecution, direct violence and criminalization. memorial is the recipient of the sakharov prize of the european parliament, and we are convinced by a large majority in this house that we must take more responsibility for our laureates. we therefore call on the european external action service - our message - to take care of this case! and we call on the russian authorities to drop the charges and release ojub titiyev!
a writer. the commission is not there is no doubt that russia, and in particular the leadership of the chechen republic, has an obligation to respect fundamental and human rights. they have committed themselves to this, not least through international agreements and un conventions, especially as a member of the council of europe and a signatory to the european convention on human rights. unfortunately, the fate of ojub titiyev, head of the office of the russian ngo memorial in chechnya, is a serious violation here and unfortunately is obviously only the tip of an iceberg of worrying human rights violations by the chechen authorities. our group and i share the approach of the joint resolution to finally put an end to the coordinated attacks on human rights organisations and activists, to give non-governmental organisations the appropriate means to investigate human rights violations and at the same time to guarantee and implement all legally established democratic rights, including the obligations of state and civil society bodies arising from international agreements, without hindrance on the basis of the applicable law of the russian federation. this includes the immediate release of oyub titiev.
member of the commission. – mr president, again we stand here discussing the situation in chechnya, the situation for lgbti persons and, of course, especially today, the situation of human rights defender mr oyub titiev. human rights organisations and media reported in december and january on a new wave of detention and torture by chechen law enforcement officials affecting at least 40 lgbti people. at least two detained people are reported to have died. these are very grave violations of human rights, adding to a long list of abuses in chechnya and we reacted again strongly to the situation of lgbti people there, as we did earlier. a report by the organization for security and cooperation in europe sets out clear evidence of successive purges against lgbti people in chechnya, as well as many other human rights violations. it is essential that russian authorities address the recommendations of the report and take steps to implement them, including investigations of the role of the chechen authorities. as part of an alarming trend of attacks on human rights defenders and journalists in chechnya, a court in chechnya confirmed, as you have said, last june the detention of oyub titiev, head of the regional office of the very respected ngo memorial human rights centre. he has now been detained for over a year on questionable drug possession charges. the arrest appears to be directly connected to his human rights work. memorial has been the subject of ongoing intimidation and harassment in the north caucasus. mr titiev should be immediately released. we recall the duty of the russian federation to protect all its citizens, ensure the safety of all persons at risk owing to sexual orientation and order the chechen leadership accordingly. we expect full and transparent investigation into the report and persecution, torture and killings of lgbti people in chechnya. anyone found responsible or complicit in such hate crimes should be brought to justice. it is also the duty of the russian federation to respect and protect the legal rights of human rights defenders, including oyub titiev, in line with russia’s international human rights commitments. we remain committed to combating all forms of discrimination and hate crime, strongly supporting the rights of all lgbti persons as well as human rights defenders in general, and of course mr oyub titiev in particular. the eu has consistently called upon russia, and will continue to do so, to ensure that human rights violations in chechnya are investigated and justice for victims ensured. thank you very much for putting this important issue on the agenda. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on zimbabwe (2019/2563 ((rsp)).
i would like to thank mr van orden. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why mrs sargentini is now following.
a writer. the commission has already done so. the current president was mugabe's deputy and is partly responsible for all the acts of mugabe's time. but after mugabe was overthrown, we thought we had a chance to make a change here. the government has been told - and, mrs sargentini, clearly - that if you follow sensible procedures and hold free elections now, we can bring about the opening up you need economically. when he realised that he could lose the elections, he went back to the old pre-election methods and put the opposition in a difficult situation, which did not make free elections really possible, as the european union election observers have noted. the next day, i was at the demonstrations myself, and then he went with the army against peaceful protesters and shot some people. and it went on and on. they took over the opposition's computers so they couldn't prove that there was any voter fraud. and this is now continuing in the old way. first of all, we should make it clear - the european union has said this - that things have to be put right and that we as the european union can only provide support if he is democratic ... (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for focusing attention again on zimbabwe and the very difficult situation there at this critical moment. unfortunately our assessment is, as you all say, that the recent development in zimbabwe is a serious setback. following the increase in fuel prices by over 150%, a decision which of course triggered violent protests in an already tense political environment, the repression by security forces against demonstrators, trade unions, ngos, opposition supporters, has been unacceptable. on 17 january the eu strongly condemned this crackdown, which has resulted in many casualties, widespread human rights violations – including reports of sexual violence – and hundreds of arbitrary arrests. we have a responsibility to zimbabweans to express ourselves in these circumstances. our head of delegation in harare met high-level representatives of the government, including the ministers of foreign affairs, home affairs and justice to express our deep concerns and to urge the authorities to behave in full compliance with its constitutional obligations. in brussels, the eeas convened a meeting with the ambassador of zimbabwe in the same context. in times of economic hardship, demonstrations are to be expected. human rights and the rule of law, as enshrined in the constitution of zimbabwe, should be upheld. vandalism and lootings by rioters is of course to be condemned but security forces must respond in a proportionate and professional manner and they have to be accountable to citizens for their actions. these tragic developments underline the urgent need to address the findings and recommendations of the commission of inquiry that was set up by the president himself in response to last august’s post-election violence. security sector reform is also a priority and the government should ensure that security-related laws are aligned swiftly with the constitution. the government will not be able to implement reforms that stand the test of time without an environment that ensures an inclusive national dialogue through which citizens can exercise their freedoms of assembly, association and expression. the events that led to the resignation of president mugabe and to the entry into office of a new leadership, raised, as you have said, high expectations. we decided to engage with the new zimbabwe knowing that change would not and cannot come overnight after decades of the mugabe regime. but this being said, the recent crackdown sadly cast serious doubt over the declared determination of the government to engage in political and economic reforms. we cannot, and should not, ignore the dire economic and social situation of the people of zimbabwe and i pay tribute to the attention given by the different political groups in this house in this regard. i would like to underline that the eur 234 million that has been given to zimbabwe under the last long-term budget has achieved positive results. it does not go to the government but is invested in the health system, in agricultural production and in food security. but any strengthening of our relations with zimbabwe can only occur on the basis of clear and concrete evidence that the government is truly committed to reforms that lead the country towards a democratic and prosperous future, and this message was also conveyed by commissioner mimica in his last meeting with president mnangagwa last week in addis.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on women's rights activists in saudi arabia (2019/2564 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, human rights represent an important aspect of the eu’s engagement with saudi arabia and we regularly address this as part of our comprehensive dialogue with the saudi government. the situation of human right defenders, a longstanding priority, including the situation of women rights activists, is central in this endeavour. since last may, the eu has been engaging with the saudi authorities raising our concerns and seeking clarification on the circumstances surrounding the arrests of human rights defenders in saudi arabia. we have also inquired about torture allegations of activists. in a constructive approach, we have encouraged saudi arabia to extend an invitation to the united nations special rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders to visit that country. unfortunately, apart from the notice of the opening of an investigation by the bureau of the saudi public prosecutor and by the saudi human rights commission on the allegation of mistreatment of the detained women, reported by international press, there has not been any enlightenment as to the specific criminal charges they are facing. this is a source of increasing disquiet at eu level. i would like to recall that in all our efforts to reach out towards the saudi authorities we have always reiterated the relevance of the work of human rights defenders and civil society groups in relation to the process of reform which saudi arabia is pursuing. we’ve also repeatedly stressed the importance of respecting due process for the individuals arrested. a successful implementation of saudi arabia’s vision 2030, the cornerstone of saudi reforms, holds an important role for women. their greater empowerment would bring enormous benefits socially and economically. we will continue in the european union to follow with grave concern several other cases of activists allegedly facing the risk of imminent execution on charges related to the exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms, including freedom of association, of speech and of religion. also, as some of you said, the european union has in the khashoggi case still a lot of questions, of course, and we have called for a full, credible and transparent investigation on that case. let me conclude that it is in the interests of all to foster a more transparent dialogue. there has been an intensification of this dialogue in the past weeks, and we trust that this will continue and allow for substantive progress on these very important files.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. (the sitting was suspended at 11.48 a.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
mr president, i have supported this report which deals with the conditions of transport of animals. this is a disastrous situation. measurements in ngos show that animals suffer in a huge way and that existing legislation is not being used. however, in my view, the report is not too ambitious and in the future a serious debate will have to be held on whether we should prohibit the transport of live animals to third countries which do not respect basic animal welfare standards. i'm all for a ban. and i also think that in the future, we will have to adopt a clear regulation that limits the time for which a live animal can be transported to a slaughterhouse. it says eight hours, which i think is a long time to take an animal to the slaughterhouse. i personally think that in the future we need to promote solutions to kill the animal as close as possible to where it grows, to limit its transport as much as possible, to set stricter rules, but above all to control it.
the next item is the debate on the request for an urgent written answer with debate by mr anders primdahl vistisen, mr pavel telička, mr péter niedermüller, mr heinz k. becker, mr frédérique ries, mr jozo radoš, ms nadja hirsch, mr wolf klinz, mr gérard deprez, mr robert rochefort, ms renate weber, mr marietje schaake, mr igor gräzin, mr norica nicolai, mr ilhan kyuchyuk, mr dominique riquet, mr jean arthuis, mr bernd kölmel, mr joachim starbatty, ms kristina winberg, mr peter lundgren, mr zahrad ruil, mr jan tomažać, mr bas belder, mr richard sulšiík, mr rafelefa fitto, mr kosmałotowski, mr lauren reuţi, mr karol kbega, mr anna elbi foty, mr hans foty, mr hans ryszard-olaf, mr antoni pryszek, mr antonius pryszek, mr lorenzo crem, mr renate weber, mr marietje schaake, mr igor gräzin, mr norica nicolai, mr norica nicolai, mr ilhan kyuchy, mr zy, mr zbigniew, mr antonio schr, mr zbigniew, mr zbigniew, mr antonio zucco, mr zuccio, mr zuccio, mr zuccio, mr zuccio, mr zuccio, mr zuccio, mr zuccio, mr zuccio, mr zuccio, mr zuccio, mr zuccio, mr monti, mr zuccio, mr zuccio, mr zuccio, mr zuccio the eu has also provided support to the iranian regime in the form of financial assistance to the iranian regime.
a writer. the commission is not i am able to represent my colleague mr anders vistisen, who unfortunately is unable to attend. the commission is not prepared to accept this. today we're talking about the current security threat from iran. this is due to current events. in october 2018, danish prime minister rasmussen stated that iranian intelligence had planned an assassination attempt against three iranian opposition figures living in denmark. similar accusations were made at the same time by the french government. in january 2019, german security forces arrested a german-afghan bundeswehr member on suspicion of having passed confidential military information to iranian intelligence. the eu council of ministers reacted to these and other incidents. i fully welcome the resolution of the council of ministers of 8 january 2019 accordingly. he had decided to add two iranian nationals and the directorate for internal security of the iranian ministry of intelligence to the eu terrorist list. this is a clear signal that terrorism has no place on german and european soil. in this context, i would also like to appeal to the government of iran: the iranian government must recall its part in the peaceful settlement of the many conflicts in the middle east. violence and terrorism will not achieve its goals in the long run. this is true for iran as well as for all other actors pursuing their own interests in the middle east. iran is a strong military power; it should not be arming but disarming. this is particularly the case with regard to its ballistic activities which are not in line with the un security council resolution. the eu, the eu member states must take their responsibility, must do their part to ensure peace in the middle east.
member of the commission. – mr president, this has been a useful exchange and i thank the honourable members for their interventions. from this debate, i conclude that we must continue to use a balanced and comprehensive approach with iran. we have to address all issues of concern and take measures when required. we can be critical when there are divergences and cooperative when there is mutual interest. in this regard, we need to use the diplomatic power and instruments of the european union and its member states to their full potential in support of preserving and implementing the jcpoa, which is vital for the eu and international security. i would like to close by signalling once again my appreciation of parliament’s role in facilitating an exchange of views on this issue.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on 'a europe that protects: clean air for all' by julie girling, seb dance, jadwiga wiśniewska, catherine bearder, keith taylor, anja hazekamp, eleonora evi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000138/2018 b8-0009/2019).
i know that everyone is very short of time to speak. it would be very good if you prepared speeches, that you don't read them too fast, otherwise the interpreters will get into trouble.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the debate is entitled 'clean air for all' - who wouldn't agree! but we must be careful about such matters, so as not to throw the child out with the bath. in 2008, this parliament voted for limit values, for example in the area of nitrogen dioxide. the directive set the limit at 40 micrograms per cubic metre of air for public transport. it was a value that was ultimately seized. you have to say it like that. and this value is taken and therefore in principle meaningless because we have other limits for many areas. how can you explain that you set the limit of 40 micrograms for public transport, but at work you allow 950 micrograms? something's not right! and when i read reports now that i had well over 100 micrograms of this substance in my breath in my house on christmas day because i had four christmas candles burning, that must make you think. i'm saying we're on a level here that can't be substantiated by facts. and i have to admit, i can't even begin to understand why the previous speakers said, "so many people are dying prematurely because of various toxins in the air". the fact is, thank god, people are getting older. that's great! but how can you deduce that we have a whole bunch of premature deaths that are not scientifically proven at all? we usually like to refer to california as having very high environmental standards. but even california has a limit for nitrogen dioxide that is 40% higher than the eu's. the italian scientist of the same name had already noted in the middle ages that it takes as much effort to achieve the first 80% of a problem solution as the last 20%.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you, colleagues, for putting the issue of clean air for all on the agenda. it is one of the most important environmental and health challenges of our time. our citizens expect us to solve this issue and ensure that the air we breathe every day is of good quality and does not leave us at risk of harm. and they expect us to solve this together. with regard to the implementation, this commission has been very active in promoting air quality and supporting a shift to cleaner air, as recently recalled in the ‘clean air for all’ communication of last may. as in every piece of legislation, implementation is more than important – it is key. the commission expects all member states to take all necessary measures to achieve compliance with eu air quality limits as soon as possible. the limit of 40 milligrams per cubic metre of no2 as an annual average is an eu-wide obligation and has been agreed by all member states. this obligation must be complied with by all member states for the benefit of all our citizens. and here i would like to refer to our current air quality standards. some say they are too strict and others say they are not strict enough. ultimately there can only be one test. do they meet the goal of protecting human health and the environment as a whole from the risk of adverse impacts? and to assess this, there can only be one yardstick. the best available and thoroughly peer-reviewed scientific advice. regarding agriculture, the contribution of agriculture to the issue of ammonia emissions has, i agree, to be addressed as well. through the nec (national emissions ceiling) directive we have started to do just that. on monitoring stations across the european union, around 4 000 monitoring stations provide us with reliable, credible and comparable information on air quality, often in almost real time. we see no systematic shortcomings in the way the criteria to establish monitoring that works as set out in the directives have been applied. but when we see that monitoring is not done in line with the requirements of the directives, the commission has to act and will continue to act. allow me to conclude with a final reference to our ongoing fitness check, which we will conclude this year. this will provide us with a basis to reflect on whether we have the appropriate legislative framework in place, including sufficiently stringent limit values and suitably clear criteria to guide our monitoring networks, to ensure protection from adverse impacts on, and the risks to, human health and the environment. and, finally, to really deliver a europe that protects.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next partsession.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
mr president, according to rule 22(4), you have the privilege to represent this parliament in an official capacity. from 29—31 march, the world congress of families is going to take place in verona. for those of you who don’t know, the world congress of families is an organisation that is known for spreading homophobia and for attacking sexual self—determination. it has also been classified by the southern poverty law center (splc) as an anti-lgbti hate group. now you, mr president, were presented as one of the speakers to this congress and then you disappeared from the website. the lgbti intergroup has repeatedly asked you to clarify what is going to happen. when you entered your position, you promised that you would uphold the positions of this parliament and this parliament has consistently voted in favour of sexual self—determination and lgbti rights. i ask you: are you going to fulfil the promise and uphold these values, or are you going to attend this congress? (applause)
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. thank you very much, mr president. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur of the committee responsible for his excellent work and the commission for its excellent cooperation in this case. this it system we are talking about today definitely needs to be updated. it needs to be expanded. because at the moment, this method is not sufficient, in the sense that you get enough and good hits when you do queries. the current procedure is also highly inefficient. it is estimated to cost up to 78 million euros in member states because it is so cumbersome. the new procedure will cost the eu some 13 million euros and the member states the same amount, but it is well spent because it will give us a better procedure, which will improve the security situation in the eu and also meet all the requirements of the rule of law. i believe that this is where the eu can show that it is on the right track and that it is there for the citizens of the eu.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have here the case of an eu-wide database, which we as green citizens have not completely rejected, as has the case of the collection of passenger data, which was declared illegal by the european court of justice. ecris is not about mass surveillance, it is about the traceability of data on convicted criminals. this index already exists for eu citizens. it is only logical that it should finally be introduced for thirdcountry nationals who have been convicted in the eu. and yet we will not be able to bear the result in the end. the ecris for thirdcountry nationals, as it is now to be adopted and as mr dalton has negotiated with the council against the mandate of most libe coordinators, does not lead to equal treatment of thirdcountry nationals, but to a double inequality: while eu citizens are only fingerprinted in ecris when they are already detected in the course of an investigation, third-country nationals should be fingerprinted at all times after a certain threshold. the system has and is another component of a comprehensive biometric database of all third country nationals, which we are not the only ones to categorically reject. dual nationals, i.e. people who hold both eu and third country nationality, are to be recorded in ecris and ecris-tcn. so you end up in two databases instead of one, just to be safe. this makes some eu citizens less equal than others and therefore violates the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of nationality. even if we had welcomed ecris-tcn in principle, unfortunately in this case the result is not good enough as it is now to be decided. we cannot accept structural discrimination against thirdcountry nationals and dual nationals.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. mr president, commissioner, young people who are here today. the european solidarity corps has already been providing young people with the opportunity to contribute to society across europe, through volunteering, internships or at their workplace, since 2016, to show solidarity. the esc is more than a voluntary service, it creates identity and values across borders. it is therefore right that we want to allocate eur 1.2 billion to young people over the next period to support this programme. we need more young europeans living in democracy and solidarity at this stage. so i very much welcome the fact that young people across europe are taking to the streets and demonstrating for more climate action at the fridays for future and also demonstrating for freedom on the internet. young people are not robots, and that's why this program is the right one. we are supporting the future of the european union with this programme and i am glad that we are going to get the money.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this new erasmus solidarity corps programme has the potential to become one of the great success stories of the european union. it answers the question of how we can achieve greater solidarity in the european union. and it's mainly about young people between 18 and 30 years old who are involved in various volunteer solidarity services in theatres, with migrants, with refugees, in environmental protection, in climate policy - everywhere where organizations propose it or where they have their own ideas of what they can do for the european union and for themselves. they learn languages, they learn about other countries. they are learning empathy, and they are learning to hold the european union together and at the same time to do something for themselves. they develop their personalities, so it's what we can best call a win-win situation. the commission has now proposed to increase the budget for this programme from 375 million to 1.2 billion. that is to say, there is a very clear political will to do more for solidarity in the eu, more for young people and to make clear to all those involved why it makes sense to stand up for other people in the eu's municipalities, but also for the idea of the european union as a whole, because it is a positive idea and because it is solidarity-based - so it is a really good programme.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by thanking you for the good cooperation with all the rapporteurs from the political groups and also for the good cooperation or the intensive cooperation in the trilogue with the commission. from the refrigerator to the coffee machine to the pacemaker, from the energy networks to the ict networks to the transport infrastructure, everything will be connected to everything. what does this mean for us, ladies and gentlemen? for us, this means that cybersecurity must be one of the top political priorities in europe. you may remember: two years ago, we had a major cyber attack called wannacry. over 200 000 it systems across europe have been affected, in the uk there was trouble, hospitals were affected, in germany the signalling boards of deutsche bahn were disabled and some telecommunications companies in spain were paralysed. so you can see what a pan-european international cyberattack can do to dramatic consequences. i think we europeans are well advised to prepare ourselves for such attacks. in view of what we have already achieved in recent years in terms of cybersecurity in europe, particularly with the help of the european parliament, i believe that we are quite well equipped. there is a european cybersecurity strategy, we adopted the critical infrastructure directive a few years ago, we will adopt the cyber security act tomorrow, and we will network centres of excellence in europe and also set up a european cyber competence centre. this is the right answer to these international challenges. what is the cyber security act about? the first is to strengthen our european cybersecurity agency, enisa. i am glad that the commission has made a bold proposal to increase the staff and financial resources of enisa, and we in parliament wanted to give the european agency even more powers. this was one of the critical points in the debate, in the discussion with the member states. we want to have strong national cybersecurity competence centres. but we in parliament were particularly in favour of strengthening enisa, our european cybersecurity agency, so that it is not only involved in more coordination between national security authorities, but also has its own competences, particularly in the area of certification. we want to create a european roll-out of certification frameworks in europe. it is also a huge advantage for our domestic industry, if you have not only certification in one country, but if the framework is then given throughout europe. it was important for us in parliament that security standards for smart devices, for smart products, services and systems be introduced, and it was also important for us that in future there should be product information for consumers for these smart devices, for these intelligent devices. we believe that the consumer needs to know if their device is safe. we believe that the consumer also needs to know how to safely tune their device. all this is now in the proposal. we are happy that this was also taken up in the trilogy. i would have liked to have gone a step further here. i would have thought that it would make sense for critical infrastructures to also require mandatory certification frameworks. i think we have now reached a good compromise. we will determine in a first step at enisa, with a long-running annual programme, in which area it makes sense to make such certification compulsory. i also think this is a sensible next step. the next steps will follow. cybersecurity is a mega-important issue, especially for us in the european union. i am glad that we were able to reach such a good compromise in swift consultations with the council and with the commission as a parliament. i hope that it will be adopted by a large majority tomorrow.
rapporteur. – madam president, today we are also debating the proposal establishing the european cybersecurity industrial, technology and research competence centre, and establishing the network of national coordination centres. by coordinating the implementation of the cybersecurity programmes from digital europe and horizon europe, the centre will complement the work of the european union agency for network and information security (enisa) and increase the competitiveness of the european cybersecurity industry and research. with the reda report we are acknowledging that cybersecurity is not a status that can be achieved by buying a certain product. information and communications technology (ict) evolves constantly and so do the threats. it requires constant efforts to make our infrastructure, communication and information systems more secure. cybersecurity is a process that continues throughout the life cycle of a product, but the most secure product is not enough if we fail to secure the underlying infrastructure. the report welcomes as an advantage that businesses and expertise are distributed across europe. we embrace the wealth of knowledge and potential of our unique ecosystem of small and medium—sized cybersecurity companies. in addition to this, we involve the broader cybersecurity community in europe. this community ranges from researchers in academia to individual entrepreneurs, but we also want to connect to actors in consumer associations and include the crucial contribution of civil society initiatives, including those of ethical hackers. the proposal for a cybersecurity competence centre gives the unique opportunity to shape the future of cybersecurity in europe. the fact that expertise is distributed across the union is a strength, but also a challenge to connect them in projects. for those reasons we are encouraging collaborative approaches and investment in free and open-source software and open hardware. businesses throughout europe are struggling to fulfil their demand for skilled workers. in the ict industry each unemployed worker is matched with approximately 1.5 open jobs. clearly businesses cannot afford to ignore half of society in their search for potential. the report therefore wants to achieve a more balanced and diverse workforce in ict and also in the governance structures of the cybersecurity competence centre because it is good for business, and even more so, because it is in the interest of equality. in the past months and years there has been one debate gaining more and more public attention. it is the debate about the consequences that decisions taken by the digital industry have for society at large. we cannot ignore this debate in our cybersecurity research. the cybersecurity competence centre needs to take into account what societal and ethical implications its projects may have and anticipate the concerns its actions may raise. we must not take a narrow view of cybersecurity research by only involving computer scientists. instead, social scientists and ethicists must have a seat at the table. thanks to the ambitious work of all colleagues involved, the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) has found a solid and balanced report. we all agree on the european union’s crucial task of promoting democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms worldwide. that is why we need to be very clear in respect of the treaties when it comes to the funding of technology that can be used for military applications. therefore, i would like to ask you to make it even clearer and to support my plenary amendments to underline that, when it comes to defence, the centre’s role should be to facilitate the resilience—building initiatives against cybersecurity threats such as the protection of critical infrastructure. the cybersecurity competence centre should have no role in developing and building cyber-weapons. there is no question that some of the technologies have applications beyond just the civilian sphere, for example, cryptography. fortunately, we can rely and build upon the existing frameworks for the control of dual-use technology that this house has already helped create. i would like to thank all the colleagues and shadows for their good collaboration on this file.
draft opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i also wish to congratulate mrs niebler on behalf of the libe committee on the successful conclusion of the negotiations on the new enisa mandate. the new certification procedures are good and important, but unfortunately they are voluntary. the article 48a which the libe committee wanted to insert would have been an important step in this direction. it would have introduced, for the first time, a mandatory minimum standard for it security for all networked devices offered on the european market. we are always talking about more security here in parliament, and here we have the chance to avoid security holes that many citizens are not even aware of, because insecure devices can be hacked very easily and then used to attack other devices or security-related infrastructure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. ladies and gentlemen, we members of parliament have recognised the problem. it is not for nothing that we are discussing this week the security aspects of our mobile networks. we just have to tackle it seriously at the latest with the next revision of the enisa regulation or even before that in the product liability directive or with the revision of the celabel. it security is now a central part of our social security. let's take this as seriously as we can.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i had the pleasure of being the shadow rapporteur for my group on the cybersecurity competence centre and i can say that we very much welcomed the commission's proposal in this context. i am also very pleased with the position taken by the committee on industry. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the other shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation. it was particularly important for my group, the s&ds, to ensure the coherence of existing structures such as the responsible agency enisa, and the decision of the industry committee now contains wording to ensure good cooperation. we have seen that the governance for this cybersecurity centre works in conjunction with the national entities, that the necessary expertise is also used in all places, and we have ensured that in the end only european entities can be privileged by the programme. finally, it was important to us that while we should support military-grade cybersecurity projects, we should also be able to raise money from the european defence fund. we want to make sure that civilian software can be used for civilian products only. and that is why we can fully support the text now before us. this has been incorporated into the position of the itre committee. i am a little reluctant to go straight to trilogue negotiations. i have the impression that when it comes to the questions of financing, voting and so on, there will be enormous differences in the position of the council of ministers. time will tell. he's supposed to decide on wednesday.
i have to say, madam president, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank our rapporteur, angelika niebler, for her excellent work on this dossier. i hope that the committee on the internal market and our colleague mr danti have made a useful contribution to this. having said a lot about the structure of decision-making, i would like to remind you that the financial damage caused by ransomware is expected to exceed $11.5 billion worldwide in 2019, and the human attack surface is expected to reach six billion people by 2022. it is the figures from enisa that make it clear that the problem we are talking about now goes far beyond the european market and that we therefore urgently need to set uniform and common objectives on the eu side, which we cannot leave to the member states alone, even though in individual cases this may also be an important part of national security. the european union wants to invest 1.8 billion euros in cybersecurity by 2020. this is a positive thing, but if we compare it with the united states of america, we have to say: there are about 22 billion of them. that means we're way behind the times here. and so this means that this directive that we are adopting today not only gives new responsibilities to the european union agency for cybersecurity and that we are strengthening europe, but it also has to mean that member states and the economy are investing more in cybersecurity if we are to really confront the threat that is ahead of us.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank all members for the valuable debate and for your views expressed today. the cybersecurity act will create a flexible and market-oriented cybersecurity certification framework and give a permanent mandate to enisa. this will make the digital single market stronger and more cyber-secure. as the digital single market grows and develops, europeans should be fully aware of both the benefits and the risks involved. we have a collective responsibility to ensure that risks are properly addressed and that digital products and services are cyber-secure throughout their lifetime. the cybersecurity act is one of the building blocks for the eu’s cyber-resilience, along with the network and information security directive. the cybersecurity competence centre and network will be key to make sure that we have european capacities to protect the digital single market. cybersecurity expertise centres located across eu countries should now have adequate resources facilitated by the european cybersecurity competence centre. we now need to transform that expertise and experience into innovative cybersecurity products and services, and support their uptake across the economy. we must strengthen the european cybersecurity ecosystem, provide europe with the means to autonomously secure its digital assets and to compete on the global technology markets. this requires coordinated work, both nationally and eu-wide, combining efforts from both the public and private sectors, so that we achieve significant progress. i am very grateful for the rapid pace of the legislative work on the competence centre and network. by voting this week, and indicating your intention to conclude negotiations within this mandate, parliament is giving a clear indication of the political importance of this file and the eu’s determination to meet the challenges that we face in cybersecurity today. the commission is ready to assist the co-legislators in the upcoming negotiations.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank you very much for the very inspiring debate today. i am glad that we agree on the importance that cybersecurity must have for us in the european union in the future. and i just want to thank you for the many positive comments on the report. i think we have done an excellent job as a parliament. we wanted to strengthen europe in this area. i think we have succeeded with this cyber security act, which is being passed tomorrow. so i am very, very happy today that this step can be completed so successfully. i think it is important to emphasize once again that we have a unique opportunity to set a standard internationally. so that's always been important to us. with the general data protection regulation we have already had the opportunity, or we have succeeded, in setting a standard internationally, and if we now succeed in setting international trends in the area of cybersecurity for products, services, systems and the entire ecosystem, then this is a great thing for our european union. i thank all those who helped. we discussed it quickly, but i think we did not discuss it superficially, but really worked hard for a good solution. i stress: some of my colleagues felt that we should have been a little more ambitious. i share that view. i would have gone further with the mandatory certification, especially for critical infrastructure. but there's always a next step after a successful first. in this context, i would like to thank all those who have contributed to this project and i hope that this cyber security act will soon be implemented in the member states and that we will be able to bring about greater security for our citizens in europe and for all products.
rapporteur. – mr president, as you can see from the debate, there is broad consensus in parliament about the substance of the cybersecurity centre, but you will also have heard that there are different opinions about entering into negotiations. i would like to outline my approach on this. first of all, in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) we have already managed to make it very clear that civil funding cannot be spent on defensive applications, but i think, in order to have a strong position, it’s also really important to make sure that we do not fund activities that could actually undermine civil cybersecurity, such as back doors or hack—backs and other rather offensive applications. i hope that this is a consensus that will be achieved in the vote on wednesday. if this is the case, i would not stand in the way of starting negotiations in order to see whether it’s possible to conclude with a political agreement within this mandate. however, there are, of course, political differences that remain. we will have to see exactly what the council position will be and we will not seek an agreement at any cost. because of the broad support that parliament has in the changes that it has made to the commission proposal, we would also require great flexibility from the council and commission to be able to conclude with a political agreement. so it will all depend on whether we can find this consensual approach but, if this is the case, i am confident that an agreement within this term is possible.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not it is really very good that the eu is now adopting a uniform regulation to limit the power of supermarket chains over food producers. i would also like to thank paolo de castro and all those involved for the really good cooperation. it is important to me that europe does not stop here, because not all the problems are solved yet. the farmers, but also the workers in the fields, the greenhouses, the slaughterhouses and the small food processors are under pressure from various quarters, not only from the supermarket chains but also from the upstream sector - if i think of the seed, fertiliser, feed or pesticide industries. and it is in all these industries that we see an increasing concentration of power. the bayer-monsanto merger is just the latest example. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not distorted by the excessive concentration of farmers' incomes. commissioner hogan, would you be prepared to look at competition law as well? would you ensure that future mergers take into account the impact on the environment, climate and health, but also on farmers' incomes? because that's exactly what the monsanto and bayer deal didn't do. i believe that europe needs an ambitious project here, and we could go forward together with ambition.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i'd like to apologize for being late. i was present at the vote in the economic committee until the end and was therefore able to come back to this a little later. i think we can all now say that the protection of small and mediumsized enterprises, particularly in small-scale agricultural production, has always been an important concern of many forces in this house, and the epp group has always been one of them. i would therefore like to thank all those who have contributed to the creation of this directive, and in particular the rapporteur, mr de castro. but i think it is important to point out that this directive, commissioner, has not been perfect in all areas. the protection of the enterprises now covered by this directive goes far beyond the definition of what small and mediumsized enterprises have been up to now. the question can of course be raised whether we need a broader definition of 'small and mediumsized enterprises'. but if you ask yourself this question, in europe you actually need an impact assessment. i therefore have some doubts whether we can now shake off the idea of extending the definition of smes from the agricultural sector, or whether we would not have needed a little more time to do so. the second problem i see is that this directive actually assumes that we have a single european market in the agricultural sector too. in this respect, it would have been logically imperative to bring this directive into full harmonisation and not to impose on the member states a further fragmentation explicitly set out in recitals 16 and 17. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in short, we shall agree to this, but there are still some doubts. we'll have to see how this thing plays out in the future.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. my group welcomes the agreement on sustainable forestry with vietnam. it can become an international model for how we can balance the creation of economic prospects for the population with the protection of nature and the climate. this is a key building block for achieving the un's 2030 sustainable development goals, especially in southeast asia. vietnam still has a long way to go to effectively stop the trade in illegally harvested timber and implement the agreement. it must also cover the existing routes for illegal timber from laos and cambodia through vietnam. we should give our flegt partners in asia and africa more expertise and financial support for their work, because the flegt programmes have reduced illegal trade by 20%. but the un still has to estimate the loss of tax revenue from illegal timber trade at 15 billion dollars a year. even more serious is the damage to biodiversity and the climate. the eu commission should therefore urge our trading partners to cooperate in breaking down logging as a business model and effectively promoting sustainable timber management in southeast asia.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the european citizens' initiative has now been running for almost seven years. since the regulation came into force, more than nine million people have signed a citizens' initiative. this shows that citizens want this instrument of participatory democracy across borders. the other side of the coin, however, is that unfortunately only four citizens' initiatives were able to collect the necessary one million signatures in at least seven member states. i believe that experience has shown that this was not primarily due to the issues raised, but rather that the administrative and technical barriers to citizen participation were clearly too high. it is good that we are now removing many of these obstacles with the reform package. for example, all eu citizens, regardless of their place of residence, will be able to support a citizens' initiative. secondly, contact points in the member states will be able to advise organisers on all practical matters. thirdly, if a citizens' initiative submitted should be legally admissible only in part, the commission can now accept it instead of having to declare it completely inadmissible. fourth, organisers will have more time to prepare their campaigns. you can now decide when to start collecting signatures. fifthly, in future, our parliament will hold a public hearing on every successful citizens' initiative in order to make the initiative known to a wider public, and we have already changed our rules of procedure to that end. these and other improvements will make the citizens' initiative more user-friendly. there is, however, one drop of wormwood. my group has fought to rejuvenate the citizens' initiative considerably by lowering the minimum age to 16. young people are very politically engaged, and they are currently taking to the streets in all weathers to make their voices heard, whether it is for a sustainable climate policy or a free internet. they want to be involved, and they should be able to be. unfortunately, the council has opposed any reduction in the minimum age. the fact that the member states have now been given the opportunity to decide on the minimum age of 16 is therefore at least a step in the right direction. i very much hope that there will be a committed public debate on this and that it will soon be the norm across the eu for young people to support citizens' initiatives, because our europe needs the participation of young people.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i too would prefer to have good relations with the citizens of russia. but i also know what is opposed to it: the occupation of crimea, the ongoing war against ukraine, which has now left 13 000 dead, the shooting down of a passenger plane, the misery of the people in donbass, the re-expulsion of the crimean tatars from crimea, the show trials in russia, in which ukrainian marines are currently being threatened with psychiatric treatment. the aggression of putin is not directed against ukraine alone, but our eastern partners moldova and georgia were already affected by this aggression before the war against ukraine. and we have now seen that the aggression is also directed against the european union. i must say that i think that the conventional and, above all, the nuclear armaments that russia is systematically building up are further underlining this aggression against the european union. the funding of anti-european parties on the far right and left, interference in eu referendums, cyber attacks, pickets in macedonia and recently also on french streets in connection with the yellow vests, poisoning attacks - these are not invitations that russia would use to promote our return to better relations. human rights violations in russia against civil rights activists, opposition journalists and minorities are commonplace. the european court of human rights, the council of europe and the european parliament have taken decisions and adopted resolutions which have so far been without effect. we do indeed want better relations with russian citizens. we want russia to remain in the council of europe, but the conditions must be right.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. the eu-russia bilateral relations are indeed at their lowest level since 1990 and continue to slide towards the abyss. we are faced with a decision of principle: how do we want to guarantee peace and partnership with russia in the interest of solving serious problems in our continent's immediate neighbourhood, mrs harms, the eu and russia, and also our responsibility for conflicts in other regions of the world in the future? the experience of the 20th century, but also of the last two decades, teaches us that stability and peace, solutions to all the different interests of the actors involved, are not to be implemented against, but only with russia. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i stand by that: it's wrong! we are manoeuvring deeper and deeper into the silence and the dead end. in the face of tensions, arms races and growing political and military confrontation, a factual, critical and results-oriented dialogue on differences must be initiated and developed without preconditions, including the abolition of the mutual sanctions regime, which often exists instead of parliamentary cooperation. the eu should complement its justified critical assessment of russia's domestic and foreign policies with a self-critical analysis of its own policies. i expect the same from all political leaders in the russian federation.
i declare the 2019-2020 session of the european parliament open.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the 'gender balance in nominations for economic and monetary positions at eu level' (2019/2614 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the german federal state of brandenburg has decided that the state parliament will be composed of equal members in future. i'm just using this as an example. the reason is that the parliament should be equally composed of men and women, because this reflects the situation in society. apart from the fact that 50% of the electorate are women and can of course choose between male and female mps, the challenge is that the proportion of women in politics is much lower than in society. i have attended many party events, and the proportion of women has usually not exceeded 15 or 20 per cent. how, then, can we really understand such a parity of outlook? is that really fair? and where do we stop? what marginal groups do we want to take into account in future regarding the proportion of women? do we want to consider all religions equally? do we want to include christians, buddhists, muslims, atheists? and are we also looking at all minorities? if we want to be gay, queer, transgender, people with diabetes, people with physical disabilities, old, fat, young, thin -- where do we draw the line? our democracy offers the voter the opportunity to choose the person who best represents him. and we can trust the citizens to do the same, and the economy is no different. we should always choose the person who is the best qualified and best suited for a profession and for the practice of a profession, regardless of gender, and i say this because i am a civil engineer by profession myself. when i started my studies 30 years ago, the proportion of women in this technical study was 15%, and 30 years later, it has not changed. we just have to acknowledge that men and women are different.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the renewed proposals by the european commission and council for the top management and even for the selection lists for senior positions in the european financial institutions are simply out of date. the time when only men are proposed is not the 21st century. and it's not that men and women are different, as we've just been saying, but that women have long held leadership positions in finance, in scientific institutions, and they deserve to be equally involved. we have been discussing this question in parliament for years. the question is, how long are we going to stand by and watch this happen? i would ask my colleagues to be consistent now. this means that we are not appointing these people under european law for the time being, but are waiting for the council and the commission to come up with a negotiated solution to how these medieval conditions for appointments are changing.
i am not sure that this is the case. the blue card is not for a statement, it's for a question. and if you haven't come up with the question after 25 seconds, i have no hope that the question will be asked. you have 30 seconds to get the blue card. i'm very liberal about that. but understand, the blue card is for a question, not a statement, even if you're still outraged. very short: finish the question, please!
so, we've had the question. i also think the reason for the questions is the same everywhere. that's why i'm only gonna let you have one blue card. you will have noticed that i have been less strict than usual about the time of speaking. i am not talking about a generous gesture, but when mrs de lange spoke, i was distracted and i let her off the hook. so i thought i'd even the playing field between the factions a little bit. we should still stick to the speaking times.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is no secret that we have a gender imbalance in the governing bodies of the european financial supervisory institutions and the central bank. this imbalance at european level is also due to the imbalance at national level in the boards of national supervisors and central banks, which means that there are few female executives available at european level. i therefore ask the council to ensure that the promotion of women takes place in a proper manner, also within the national structures. that is why we have to have this debate. but what really bothers me here is the hypocrisy with which we are conducting this debate. the groups which are so agitated here today would have had the great opportunity to appoint a woman to replace a woman, namely the central supervisory mechanism, and it is precisely these groups which are so agitated here today that have chosen the man, although both were equally qualified. we have made it clear as the epp that women have priority in the case of equal qualifications. and then there are letters, emails, where it says, "one is qualified, and the other is a woman". with all due respect, i've never seen such a discriminatory process. in the private sector, this would have had legal consequences. i therefore say to all my colleagues that if we have the opportunity to put a woman in office, we should do so together and not have this false debate in the house.
mr sośnierz, that was not a question.
i am not in the habit of saying this, but i will say something about it now. i have followed this debate very closely and i can subscribe to most of what has been said here. i would like to touch on a sacrifice that is very rarely seen in this debate, namely language. i am completely in vain if i am now addressed by my romanian colleague as 'presidente', 'president' or, as mr hannan always does, 'mr deputy speaker'. the english language had a nice term for that: "chairman" or "chairwoman". over time, it became a chairperson, and i could live with that. but now it's so tight that you're just called "chair". and i think instead of using "chairperson", "chairwoman", or "chairman", depending on who's sitting in front, you've depersonalized it to the point where you're just talking about "chair". so they made a thing out of man. and i just want to say that i feel extremely uncomfortable about this without wanting to specifically address any of my colleagues. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
member of the commission. – mr president, i don’t know if i would be making a mistake if i would dare to give you the title of ‘mr’ president! thank you for a very interesting debate. i will add a few comments. we have enough very well qualified women in the financial sector. when speaking about sectors and a deficit, we see a deficit in relation to qualified women in the technology and it sector, but for the financial sector, we do have enough highly qualified women. out of 62% of university graduates who are women, we have a lot of very well qualified economists and financial experts. indeed, we have surveys which say that it’s in companies and in the financial sector and in banks where there is diversity on boards, where there is balanced representation, where there is more balanced decision-making. these are surveys which took lessons from the financial crisis, which say clearly that men have more of a tendency to take irresponsible and dangerous excessively risky decisions. this is not my invention; this is what we see in the facts and from the data collected from many institutions and that’s why it’s good to have diversity on boards and to have this balanced decision-making. that’s why i think that it will be good if we work together for the future on the procedures which will guarantee better representation of women by means of fair competition. this is what i introduced already in the current version of the proposed women on boards directive, where we say the first stage in decision-making and in the selection process must look at the qualification, expertise and experience – the professional ability and capability to do the job – and then the person whose gender is under—represented should be given priority. i think that this is very fair and in fact, it is gender-neutral because it could be a man who gets priority one day. i think that we should look into these processes and make them more fair. i have been doing this job of gender equality commissioner for five years now and i have heard a lot of different myths and also lies. one of them, i heard today is that we are different. of course we are different. we have different ways of thinking and that’s why we should have this balanced representation. we are different as individuals. i come from a totalitarian country. when i hear about equality, i am nervous because i lived in the regime which imposed equality. we are individuals. our ability to do jobs differs and don’t tell me that we have a problem from a gender point of view. the second myth – speaking about the quota, which was introduced in this women on boards directive and which some of you called to be used in the process for the financial sector. i hear sometimes that under a quota system, a woman will end up replacing a fantastic, well-educated man. that’s not true. i want to be well understood. i plea for fair competition. this is necessary to follow under excessive risk-taking and the lessons learned after the financial crisis. i think it was neelie kroes who said that the financial crisis would not have come about if it had been the lehman sisters, but it was the lehman brothers, so that’s why we had the problem. the last two comments: we had a few minutes ago a lot of very beautiful young people around here. when stagiaires and students visit me, the young women do not speak about discrimination. they are just ready to go for it. we should also fulfil the task of encouraging and helping them to have higher self-confidence and to be ready to do demanding jobs because low self-confidence, according to many other surveys, is one of the barriers for women to going for these high jobs, and to break some kind of risk-avoidance feature, which we as women also sometimes have. last comment on what we heard from mr sośnierz: yes, horrible things. i don’t agree with what i heard from mr sośnierz but, ladies and gentlemen, i was here yesterday and we had a debate about agriculture and about the protection of fish and animals and yesterday i heard that fish do not deserve our protection because they don’t have voting rights and they are not taxpayers! today, speaking about women, i heard softer language, so thank you for that.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, to conclude, i would like to assure you once again that, as regards appointments to finance—related eu bodies, the council is fully committed to promoting gender balance while acting strictly as required by eu law. i also hope that i have been able to clarify the council’s role in these processes. thank you very much, once again, for your attention.
the motions for resolutions to be tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure will be announced at a later date. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 14 march 2019. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank the prime minister very much for joining this debate on the future of europe. the future of europe has lots of different, very important, aspects and the one i would like to focus on today is the issue of democracy. i think the way in which the european union treats democratic deficits in the future is really decisive of how we’re moving forward. there is of course also advancing the democratic procedures inside the european union – definitely – but the question right now is also how we deal with member states who are turning the clock backwards on the rule of law, democracy and civil liberties. hungary might be the worst example in the whole picture, but we also see a lot of problems in other member states. so we should really look around and not close our eyes to what’s happening in terms of media freedom, freedom of association and freedom of speech – all of those things which are very, very important. in slovakia you have the situation where a journalist was murdered because of his investigation into corruption and fraud, and that is something which we need to deal with. we need to make sure it never happens again anywhere in the european union. so it’s really time that we address this issue, especially at the european union level, because there are so many citizens out in the streets in budapest, warsaw and bucharest who are asking the european union to step up and to help them because their own governments won’t listen to them. so we need to get active on that. they are european citizens like all of us. but, instead of helping, at the european union level we see too much infighting between parties – ‘is it your bad guys or my bad guy?’ – but we need to get beyond that so that we ensure the civil liberties and the rights of all european citizens. for that, my group is suggesting that we set up an independent commission of experts to look into the situation of the rule of law and democracy in every single member state all the time and is then able to give recommendations before it’s too late. it’s also a problem right now that we are only starting when things are too late. this commission would also be able to enact sanctions if necessary. indeed, we also need to look at the european union funds because, unfortunately, some governments use them to implement their personal pet projects, to favour certain people or to ensure favourable reporting. but the eu funds also do a lot of good. you’ve mentioned the cohesion funds, which are very important for many citizens. we have many citizens’ initiative projects going on. eu funds are important all over europe. so we need to find a smart way to deal with that situation without cutting the support to our european citizens when we’re actually trying to hit the government and a specific action of the government. so for that we are suggesting that we ask the commission to take over the distributing element of that whole so that the money still arrives with the citizens and for the benefit of the citizens without being used at the discretion of national government. this is certainly not the easiest answer – maybe cutting funds might be easier – but it’s one where we ensure that there remains a link between the eu institutions and citizens without allowing the governments to do whatever they want with that. mr prime minister, you made a very interesting and comprehensive speech about all sorts of aspects, but you also underlined the issue of unity and understanding. i think that is very important indeed and we count on you to promote those ideas, also in the council, which is being difficult and blocking a lot of initiatives that also come from this house. we also count on you to implement all of those issues and promote democracy and the rule of law in slovakia. the issue of press freedom has been mentioned. this is very important. addressing fraud and corruption is not an easy task anywhere, but it needs to be done. there have been examples in slovakia of how urgent that matter is. all of those issues are also very important for a well—functioning state that could put forward all of these reforms that you’ve been advocating, and of course especially also to continue the investigation into the murder of ján kuciak and martina kušnírová will be extremely important until the masterminds have been found. i think the help of europol will be important in that.
mr president, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is encouraging that the slovak government wants to work towards the unity of the european union, and i thank you very much for your comments here. you said, mr prime minister, that we must overcome the division in the european union, and that is not only an east-west divide, but also an east-west divide. i say this as a member of parliament from germany, from central germany, from a region which was itself formerly - 30 years ago - the socialist gdr. we are witnessing in germany, 30 years after the peaceful revolution, how the great upheavals are still having an effect. we must - and i appeal to you - do even more within the eu and recognise this tremendous achievement of building democracy after the overthrow of socialism. these social processes cannot be overcome by cohesion policy alone. it is also about recognition, also by the other countries in the eu. as the president of the visegrád group, with your pro-european approach, you can build these bridges, and i appeal to you, i encourage you. you mentioned the weimar triangle, the franco-german approaches, but also working in the visegrád group to make it more pro-european. i appeal to you to stand up for the many citizens in the visegrád countries who are pro-european and against what has been said about the eu, especially on the right.
mr president, mr pellegrini, you described your vision of an attractive european union. i would like to tell you that if prime minister may today gets her deal through the british parliament, i don’t think we will have an attractive european union. britain was always an advocate for competition and now we are going towards harmonisation. britain was always an advocate for safe responsibility for countries’ debts and now we are going towards socialisation. britain was always in favour of subsidiarity and now we are going towards centralisation. my last hope for an attractive european union is that the british parliament today rejects the deal and opens the way towards a second referendum with the result that britain stays in the european union.
mr president, mr pellegrini, prime minister of the federal republic of germany, has just said that he is not in favour of the european union. i am focusing on the situation of slovak citizens with a romani background, i.e. roma and sinti. segregation in education, housing, access to the labour market and healthcare is commonplace, for example in the village of rankovce, where some 300 slovak roma live and have to get their water from two wells using hand pumps. according to the european fundamental rights agency (fra), 43% of school children with romani background in slovakia have been exposed to anti-gypsy insults in the last 12 months. more than half of the respondents feel discriminated against in their work because they belong to a minority group. unfortunately, we have similar figures in germany. it is sad that in slovakia, one in nine roma or romni is subject to physical violence due to anti-gypsy hatred. the proportion of minority youth without jobs or training has risen sharply, while the figures for the majority population are stable. in addition, the percentage of children with roma background attending school has increased in recent years, but remains below that of the majority population. i went to a roma high school in košice, where 90% of the pupils were roma and the rest were heavy-hitters from the majority population. what measures do you propose, mr prime minister, to combat long-standing anti-gypsyism effectively? how do you intend to respond to the evidence of unequal treatment and exploitation of slovak citizens of romani background?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my answer, mr prime minister, is also a response to emmanuel macron, who has been busy and agitating us with his appeal. he said, as you said, that we need basic social security and a minimum wage in line with the european standard in the european union. now, we all know that the level of wealth is critical to social performance. but because wealth levels vary across the eu, there can be no uniform minimum wage, no uniform basic security. otherwise there would be unemployment. so there's only the possibility of redistribution. that is what should be said here, even though mr juncker is happy that this is being done here. this is redistribution. and then i would like to quote a phrase from mr macron: without the euro, which makes the whole of the eu strong, we would not be able to withstand the crisis of financial capitalism. there is no sentence more wrong than this one. the euro has not made the euro union strong, it has weakened it, it has divided it. the euro is the slowest growing region in the world economy. that's the truth. anything else is fake news.
mr president, mr prime minister, thank you very much for speaking so strongly in favour of a social europe and for your commitment to the principle of national minimum wages, the importance of which was once again emphasized by commission president juncker here in the house. in germany, it was the spd that implemented the minimum wage, and east germany in particular benefited from it. the social democrats are fighting for this principle in europe alongside you. mr juncker, you are losing the conservatives on this issue. the new cdu leader kramp-karrenbauer spoke out clearly against the principle of a national minimum wage over the weekend. and i would also like to emphasise that i consider it very important to uphold the fundamental european values of the rule of law, freedom of the press and freedom of expression. you are currently in the important role of leading the visegrád group. i appeal to you as an east german, as a visegrad german, to make this clear, particularly to hungary and poland. we fought and defeated socialism together. let us now stand up for this democracy, in this europe where we are strong.
madam president, i would like to move the following oral amendment: expresses its conviction that russia’s membership in the council of europe is an important element of the present landscape of institutional relations in europe; hopes that ways can be found to convince russia of not abandoning its council of europe membership.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not by creating an eu-wide sanctions mechanism against those responsible for human rights violations, we are sending a very clear signal that human rights violations must always be punished. the priority must always be to prosecute the perpetrators, but punishment must also be given in cases where the perpetrators can evade prosecution. the eu has long been applying individual sanctions. one of the first eu travel bans on human rights violations was imposed in the context of the execution of nigerian environmental activist ken saro-wiwa in 1995. today, it is crucial that we implement the application of entry bans and account freezes against offenders in an efficient, transparent and due process manner. it is therefore right that sanctions decisions can be challenged in court. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. civil society organisations can make an important contribution to this and to making it more successful. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. to your question: we have also had very extensive discussions with all the political groups in the subcommittee on human rights. so there's only one case in the world, and that's the corresponding u.s. law, which has the magnitsky case in the title. all the other laws that are equally and very qualified and good, for example in canada, have a technical terminology. i think mr preda is wrong in assuming that he is saying that this law would be less important or would be less noticed if it did not have that title. and i very much regret that he did not mention in the committee meeting that we can of course refer to the magnitsky case in the resolution itself, which was very crucial in the whole development of this kind of sanctions regime.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you for the invitation to participate in this debate today to discuss the european parliament’s 2018 turkey report, and to look at the issues of mutual concern, as well as those of mutual interest. we take note of the clear messages and concerns referred to in your resolution. we are continuing to follow domestic developments in turkey very closely, in particular the implementation of the constitutional amendments. particularly worrying in this respect, as you have also rightly noted on many occasions, is the continuing backsliding in the areas of rule of law and respect for fundamental rights, also highlighted in the commissionʼs 2018 communication on enlargement policy. these concerns were clearly reflected in last june’s council conclusions, as well as in parliament’s report on the table today. in its conclusions of 18 july 2016, the council strongly condemned the 15 july coup attempt and expressed solidarity with the turkish people and full support for the democratic institutions of turkey. the eu recognises the serious security threats that turkey has faced. however, the disproportionate scale and scope of measures taken in the aftermath of the failed coup attempt also continue to raise serious concern. turkey has been moving further away from the eu, and we are not currently in a ‘business as usual’ situation. while noting your call for a formal suspension of accession negotiations with turkey, let me remind you that the council noted in its june 2018 conclusions that turkey’s accession negotiations have effectively come to a standstill, due to the issues just outlined. at the same time, we agree with you that it is important not to close the door to turkey, but to keep the channels of communication open; the council maintains that continued engagement and an open and frank dialogue with turkey, as a candidate country and a key partner of the eu in many areas, remains important and is in the best interests of both sides. i refer in particular to the common challenges that we face and the need to cooperate in essential areas of joint interest such as migration, counterterrorism, energy, transport, economy and trade. the eu-turkey joint action plan for refugees and migration management and the march 2016 eu-turkey statement are continuing to be implemented in the interest of both parties. this successful cooperation has led to a drastic decrease in deaths at sea, a substantial reduction in irregular migrant arrivals from turkey, and a better future for the syrian migrants in turkey, to which the eu-funded facility for refugees in turkey is continuing to contribute. the council fully subscribes to parliament’s acknowledgement of the important role played by turkey in responding to the migration crisis, as confirmed in its conclusions commending turkey for its renewed efforts and constructive cooperation. at the same time, turkey needs to commit to a normalisation of relations with cyprus and fully implement the provisions of the additional protocol to the association agreement. let me use this opportunity to assure you that we, as the presidency, will therefore continue to raise these important matters with our turkish interlocutors at every level and on every occasion, and do our utmost to persuade turkey to do its part and live up to its promises of reform.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by congratulating the rapporteur, kati piri, and all the shadow rapporteurs, not only for this year but also in previous years, for all their excellent work on turkey – a candidate country and, of course, a partner of strategic importance to the european union. in relation to the rule of law and human rights, the negative developments that the commission identified in its last – 2018 – report have continued. they have caused further serious concerns about the direction that the turkish leadership is taking. the recent indictment against osman kavala, and 15 other highly respected civil society actors, exemplifies the increasing pressure that civil society is facing. it also casts doubt as to whether the judicial process in turkey respects the principles of the presumption of innocence and the right to a fair trial. honourable members, turkey says it remains committed to its goal of eu accession. it should not then be surprised that we are following developments in turkey very closely and that we raise our strong concerns when the values and principles on which the european union is founded – and to which turkey too has officially committed as a member of the council of europe – are being ignored. on the contrary, one would expect turkey to carry out the necessary reforms. but turkey is also, and will remain, our neighbour and a partner of strategic importance for the european union, with whom we work closely on areas such as energy, counterterrorism, trade and migration. turkey is a key player in regions that are of strategic interest for the european union. it also hosts the largest refugee population in the world, and our cooperation under the facility for refugees is an example of successful cooperation. a series of high-level sectoral dialogues on political issues, transport and the economy has taken place recently and an association council will be convened later this week. these meetings provide useful platforms not only to further our cooperation but also to share our grave concerns. our engagement is not unconditional: open dialogue is not uncritical dialogue. most recently, at our high-level political dialogue on 22 november in ankara, the high representative and i made it clear to our turkish counterparts that there is an urgent need for turkey to reverse its policy stance if it seriously wants eu-turkey relations to improve. and during the recent high-level economic dialogue, vice-president katainen specifically raised our concerns about press freedom, in particular the accreditation of foreign journalists. we also continue to call on turkey to improve its relations with all our member states bilaterally, especially with cyprus. we have emphasised that the turkish government should refrain from provocative and illegal actions, notably in the eastern mediterranean and in the aegean. at the same time, we must not lose sight of the long term and, perhaps even more importantly, of the many people in turkey who are directly affected by the current downward trend on fundamental freedoms. we must keep our hands stretched out towards them, especially, and help them to defend our shared european values.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank rapporteur kati piri and also the shadow rapporteurs of the other groups for the very good cooperation over the years. finally, we were able to agree on a good text which needs to be improved only in certain areas. and one point, i think, needs improvement, namely that it calls for the accession negotiations to be suspended, and this is not a new demand. we had raised it in the event that a presidential system was established and democracy was abolished in turkey. but of course, we didn't impress the erdoğan regime in any way. the constitution has been changed, democracy and the rule of law have been abolished. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations. but with these funds we are in fact supporting the turkish government, which tramples human rights and civil liberties underfoot, persecutes critics and opponents abroad, arrests them and sentences them to long prison terms. the gulenists are facing a real witch hunt. can we do that? is this how we help the regime's critics? my group wants to end the accession negotiations once and for all, and i support that. we could then redirect the pre-accession funds to support turkish civil society. let's be honest, everyone knows that it is impossible to take in turkey, and that the european union itself is not in any way capable of enlargement for a long time. i therefore ask for your support for the amendment of the text in 'end of negotiations'.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. hundreds of thousands of people in turkey are experiencing fundamental human rights violations. it is time for the european union to send a clear signal and formally suspend the accession negotiations, which are already at a standstill. tens of thousands of people are in prison awaiting sentencing in often unfair trials. the european parliament's call for a formal suspension of the accession negotiations is logical and consistent, because we had already threatened in the last report that this would happen if the constitutional reform in turkey were implemented. it's happened now. and the formal suspension should also be done so that everyone knows that the european parliament is a credible partner in the dialogue. we say "suspend", not "end". the door will stay open. despite the european parliament's strict demands, the doors to cooperation with turkey as an important strategic neighbour should not be closed. it is important that we do not abandon civil society in our tough discussions with the turkish government. right now, she needs our support. the eu's support is more important than ever. and the european parliament will not stop calling for justice for selahattin demirtaş and the many others wrongfully imprisoned.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, mr erdoğan had described the failed coup as a gift from god. the eu-turkey report shows the consequences. the more divine gift, however, was given by the eu to the turkish rulers themselves. the refugee deal promoted the avoidance of the systematic persecution of the opposition, the silence on the invasion of afrin. the only female mep, feleknas uca, is now facing many years in prison. since november, politician leyla güven has been on hunger strike. such means are not used until one has been deprived of any power of action. by the way, women in particular are suffering acutely under the erdoğan regime. they are to be systematically silenced and made invisible. let us decide on the signal to freeze the negotiations and not to cancel them. let us show our capacity for dialogue and solidarity, because turkey is more than erdoğan, it is above all the opposition and civil society. they need our vote! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am not going to go into that. i remind you that we had a situation here in this house where we actually agreed across the political groups that we had made ourselves vulnerable to blackmail with the eu-turkey deal. i have already mentioned this situation. it is blackmailed that erdoğan has been able to show us around for months, even years, as it were, on the nose ring. and i think we should not hide our own situation. this is as much a part of it as anything else we have done in critical dialogue with the erdoğan regime.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. today we are once again discussing the preparations for turkey's accession to the eu. but we should not be talking about this in this house, because turkey is now an islamic country under its dictatorial caliph of the bosporus. it has nothing in common with the western community of values in this constitution. turkey is not part of the eu. my group has repeatedly asked for the accession negotiations not only to be suspended temporarily but to be finally closed once and for all. but now we have a new chance, because manfred weber said last week that he would end the accession negotiations if he became president of the commission. why wait, mr. weber? why not now, dear cdu and csu? we can decide that right here in plenary. i would like to ask you to support my amendment no 17 on the final conclusion of the accession negotiations. we call on you to give the electorate a glass of wine before the european elections and to show them where they really stand at the end of the accession negotiations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. a free and independent media is a core value of the european union and a cornerstone of genuine democracy. that is why i find paragraph 8 of the kati piri report particularly important in this context, where it is pointed out that there are disproportionate and arbitrary measures which unfortunately restrict freedom of expression and the media in turkey. a recent example, probably most familiar to you: on sunday, several german and other international correspondents had to leave turkey after their work permits were withdrawn without explanation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the turkish media are not blocked. domestic critics are considered terrorists, foreign critics are considered "enemies of turkey". this is unacceptable and a flagrant violation of freedom of the press. the european parliament cannot criticize this enough.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to congratulate mrs piri on the very good and important report on turkey. there is a dramatic decline in democracy in turkey, as we see in the arrests of tens of thousands, but also in the dismissal of over 152 civil servants. the freedom of the press is particularly at risk in turkey. rebecca harms and i were at the cumhuriyet show trial in istanbul, and the journalist can dündar is in germany now. he can't travel back. his wife's passport was revoked. we condemn this in the strongest terms. but german journalists have also been denied press accreditation. in addition to foreign correspondents, thomas seibert and jörg brase of tagesspiegel and zdf are no longer able to continue their work there. we condemn this in the strongest terms and we see how turkey continues to restrict the freedom of the press. it is therefore important that we now officially address the suspension of the accession negotiations, but not that we completely break off the negotiations here, because we stand with civil society and democratic forces in turkey who are committed to the rule of law, human rights and democracy.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not unlike the first fotyga report, the representatives of the political groups were much more united in the negotiation of the new report. i think this is because our experience with organized disinformation, propaganda and incitement in our countries has gone much deeper. the country with which we have to deal most on this issue is russia. not only has ukraine become a battlefield, but russia, the kremlin, is now making ever greater efforts with ever greater resources to incite citizens of european countries against their governments last seen during the yellow vest protests. citizens are being incited against migrants, but also against the eu, for example during the brexit vote. the 'strategic communication to detect and counter organised disinformation' unit needs to be substantially strengthened in my view. we need more experts in there, we need more money in there. it is very important that this department can also cooperate with the authorities of the member states in the future. this includes the intelligence services and nato. but we must not forget paragraph 1a of the report. independent free media, pluralism in democratic societies are the a and o to be able to resist incitement and propaganda.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was going to call on my colleague eugen freund to say that i agree with his entire speech 100% - he is sadly no longer here - but that i was surprised that he was unable to mention the name "russia" in two minutes. it may be an austrian peculiarity, but it won't help you. i want to name the child. russia's main concern is to destabilize the eu. the main thing is to weaken the mainstream. anything that adds to that is attractive. the time when russia, like the former ussr, had its own ideology is over. we need to make all eu countries aware of the fact that this is happening in order to weaken the resilience of our populations. where money is flowing to support people of the same sex, mr schaffhauser, we need legal regulations to prohibit this and we need the appropriate exchange of information between our competent authorities. the eu could play a coordinating role. i therefore hope that the eu's east stratcom working group will be strengthened and that it will continue to network with relevant experts in the member states.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it's a rather absurd situation today. we are being asked to approve an agreement which has been in force for over a year now and in which there has been no transparency in the negotiation process. in fact, if it were not for afghanistan, i would say: this is not the way to deal with the european parliament! i would therefore like to make it clear to the council and to the commission once again that an agreement cannot be applied provisionally without the consent of this democratically elected house. that is not at all democratic. we have a clear agreement in the field of trade that no agreement will be applied provisionally until the european parliament has said yes. and that is what i ask of the commission and the council as a general principle. we are the democratic institution of the european union, we have the right to be involved in a transparent way and to take a decision here in our democratic house before any entry into force.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not it is good that the objectives of an agreement with afghanistan - including poverty eradication, implementation of the un development goals, gender equality - involve action on an equal footing. but it is not as if we had no experience with the strategy of neoliberal so-called reforms which guides the new cooperation agreement we are discussing here today. the west, with the help of the imf, started a neoliberal, market-oriented restructuring of the economic system in afghanistan in 2003. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the community is not affected by the crisis. the situation in afghanistan today is a disaster, but i am afraid that the agreement on the promotion of foreign direct investment, the private sector and the exploitation of natural resources will not help that tormented country to get back on its feet, but will and should increase the profits of european companies. the agreement also includes the previously agreed - and here i put an exclamation point - informal deportation agreement, cynically named "common path forward", which sends african refugees back to their deaths together. this inhuman practice must be stopped immediately.
member of the commission. – mr president, around this time last year, ireland was the last eu member state to ratify the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. it means that the european union and all its member states are now committed to carrying out the following message: it is not about adapting people to the environment, but it is about adapting the environment to people. this is precisely what the european accessibility act will do. after three hard years of negotiating, after some tough give and take, you have reached an agreement with the council on this important piece of legislation. i want to warmly congratulate the rapporteur, mr løkkegaard, and his co—rapporteurs, mr kósa and mr taylor. what is on the table is a solid package which will make europe a more accessible place to live and work for persons with disabilities. the european accessibility act is a key initiative of this commission’s social agenda. back in december 2015, we tabled an ambitious proposal. it offered a coordinated eu—wide approach to implement the un convention’s obligations on accessibility. it relied on the full strength of our internal market. with the european accessibility act, we established the world’s largest market for accessible products and services. the level playing field we have created is good for european business. it will increase the availability and affordability of accessible products and services. this will allow more than 80 million people with disabilities, including many older people, to participate in society and the labour market on an equal basis with others. the european accessibility act will cover a wide array of products and services, such as phones; computers; payment terminals or self—service terminals; banking services; electronic communications, including the 112 emergency number; access to audio—visual media services; e—books; e—commerce, and some elements of transport services. these are key products and services for everyday life and they are increasingly affected by digitalisation. that is why the european accessibility act will also contribute to implementing the european pillar of social rights and its principle on the inclusion of persons with disabilities. we are adapting our rules to make them future proof, to make sure that the digital revolution can be a catalyst for social inclusion and that nobody is left behind. the european accessibility act needs to be seen in synergy with other important eu instruments, for example, the public procurement directives or the electronic communications code, where accessibility is an obligation. the european accessibility act will facilitate its implementation. to conclude, let me stress that the impact of the european accessibility act goes beyond its scope. its accessibility requirements should be inspirational for other sectors and indeed for other parts of the world. europe is about breaking down borders between countries and peoples. let’s continue to take the lead in breaking down barriers to the full and equal participation of persons with disabilities in society. i count on you all to support the european accessibility act, which will make a difference in the lives of millions of european citizens.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am also pleased that we have succeeded in taking account of the requirements of accessibility across borders here in europe, because more than 80 million people in europe have a disability of a more or less serious nature, and they too must have access to the infrastructures of the european union and the member states across borders. this not only increases their chances of exploring europe, but it also leads to us creating uniform system requirements for all infrastructure operators, and i think that with the framework that we have created here, we have taken a big step towards meeting the concerns of these people, and at the same time - and this is the positive side - we have managed to create, alongside this important social success, an economic incentive for further investment. i think it is still justified that we have excluded micro-enterprises from the scope, because here, in principle, individual investments might actually have gone a little beyond what is representative. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that will be a point on which we will have to make a fresh start in the new parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. when i started my work in the european parliament 25 years ago, people with special needs, or in other words people with disabilities, were not considered to be important. they were completely invisible, partly because there was no attempt to build a social pillar. this deficiency has now been finally overcome. due to the ageing of the population, it is estimated that by 2020 some 120 million people in the eu will be living with multiple and/or mild disabilities. today's report concerns us all, not just the more than 80 million europeans with disabilities. european regulations on accessibility and access to assistance for persons with reduced mobility already exist for road, rail, sea and bus transport. the new rules do not replace the existing ones, but rather supplement them, and i very much welcome that. these additions are clearly needed, as for example the interactive self-service terminals at airports, railway stations and bus stations are still not barrier-free. this is also true for the provision of real-time travel information, as it is already available today. i am particularly pleased with our strategy of allowing a disabled person, like anyone else, to use the life-saving emergency number 112. this report is an important step in the right direction to ensure that people with disabilities are able to live their lives independently - a task we must all continue to work on together. and i say this not only as a co-founder of the disability intergroup, but also out of a deep conviction.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank president tajani for his letter and for inviting the presidency to contribute to this debate. let me start by very clearly stating that the council is strongly committed to the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. there can be no doubt about that. the presidency and the council as a whole fully share the sense of urgency and the commitment of the parliament and the commission in addressing this issue. together we – the parliament, council and commission – have worked closely over recent years in our common endeavour to establish an effective regime to counter money laundering and the financing of terrorism. we have in particular strengthened eu rules with the adoption in 2019 of the latest amendments to the anti-money laundering directive, which stands as a very good example of this good cooperation. of course, further progress is needed in our joint fight. so, coming straight to the issue at hand, the council has objected to the commission’s delegated act identifying high-risk third countries with strategic deficiencies. this decision to object does not mean that the listing is not an important element of the ongoing work. on the contrary. but to achieve the full impact of this instrument and to ensure its quality, we need to introduce the list in an orderly process. this is effectively what we wrote in our council statement. we believe that in order to establish a strong and effective instrument, the commission proposal needs to be established in a transparent manner and one that incentivises affected countries to take decisive action. this is why the council calls for an eu listing in line, of course, with the 5th anti-money laundering directive, which will effectively strengthen anti-money laundering and combat terrorist financing. we are united and fully committed to maintaining and promoting the existing cooperation between the institutions. we are in fact advancing on other fronts as well in this fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. hopefully, we will be finalising negotiations in the coming days on an important piece of legislation on anti-money laundering, which is contained in the european system of financial supervision package. member states, but also the european parliament, attribute a huge importance to this file. the council also agreed last december on a dedicated anti-money laundering action plan with a view to further improving the current system, and we are monitoring developments on that front. i look forward to hearing your views and the views of the commissioner and to continue working closely with you on the new listing.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for organising today’s debate on this important matter and i want to thank the council for expressing the same sense of urgency on this issue. after each terrorist attack, we hear passionate speeches about how we have to efficiently fight against terrorists. after each banking scandal, we hear a lot of other speeches about how we have to make our financial sector more healthy. this is what we try to do, including by means of high—risk third countries, and this is what we did. we did it according to the methodology on which consultations were held and which was adopted in a transparent manner. that’s why i have to start by expressing my deep regret that the council rejected this list – because being equipped with such a list, we would be able to start with this efficient fight immediately. as you know, the juncker commission and i personally have made the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing a top priority during this mandate, and i always felt very strong support from this house, from the members of parliament who are also sitting here today. in recent years, we have witnessed a series of terrorist attacks in europe and we have seen major money laundering scandals that unveil how organised criminals misuse our financial system. together with you, we have worked relentlessly to make our rules and systems stronger against financial crime that causes harm to our society and our citizens. we have twice updated the anti-money laundering directive. you have adopted a new directive on criminalisation of money laundering and we have provisionally agreed on a new directive on the use of financial information by law enforcement authorities. this week, we are in the final stage of negotiating a reform of the european banking authority that would give it a stronger role in anti—money laundering supervision of the financial sector, thereby helping to ensure that our strong rules are properly enforced across europe. the delegated regulation the commission adopted on 13 february to identify third countries with strategic deficiencies in their anti—money laundering and counter—terrorist—financing frameworks is part of all these efforts to better protect the eu financial system from the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing. unfortunately, this measure will not enter into force for the reason i mentioned at the beginning: using its scrutiny rights, the council objected on 7 march to this delegated act. as i said, i am disappointed by the decision of the council and i regret that this issue has not been discussed at political level in the council. neither by the justice and interior ministers last week, nor by the finance ministers meeting at the economic and financial affairs council (ecofin) in brussels today. in the fifth anti—money laundering directive, this parliament and the council decided together to strengthen the rules with regard to third countries, complementing the legal criteria of the financial action task force. the commission attaches great importance to multilateralism and the work the financial action task force is doing. we are an active founding member of this task force and we must take its important work into full account. at the same time, it is necessary that we take further steps to protect the integrity of the eu financial system on the basis of the criteria set out in our anti—money laundering rules so that due diligence measures are applied. in light of experience, including the lessons from the panama papers scandal, we, the european parliament and the council decided together to add transparency rules on beneficial ownership structures. this goes beyond the financial action task force rules. we, therefore, can no longer simply replicate this action task force list. we have a legal obligation under the current anti—money laundering rules to carry out our own autonomous assessment. in order to prepare our first autonomous list, the commission carried out a careful assessment, based on a solid methodology, together with member states’ experts. member states were also consulted on the methodology itself, which follows the criteria set out in the directive. the commission also engaged with the third countries concerned immediately after the college of commissioners endorsed the preliminary findings on 23 january 2019 in full of respect of the third countries’ right to be heard. the commission stands by its assessment. therefore, we will continue to engage with the third countries concerned and encourage them to address their deficiencies in the areas of preventing money laundering and terrorist financing. we do not list third countries for the sake of listing them, but in order to address the risks to the eu financial system. in terms of the next steps, i stand ready to engage with you and with the council at political level to discuss the way forward. our aim remains to fulfil our legal obligation under the anti—money laundering directive. it is a joint responsibility of the eu institutions to protect citizens and the eu financial system against threats of money laundering and terrorist financing. as for the timing, i asked the college to give me a chance to finalise the next list still in this mandate. i want to finish my mandate with a clean table and to do that, i also have to stress once again that i count on your support.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam commissioner, dear representative of the presidency of the council! i think we can all agree that in the fight against money laundering we need a blacklist that has a bite, that moves third countries to intervene and that is credible. because we had doubts that this was the case with previous drafts of the blacklist, we as the european parliament have already rejected delegated acts. i almost feel sorry for the commission now, because we have always said that it is not enough to copy the list of the financial action task force, we have to make our own analyses. that's exactly what we've been asking for. the list is certainly not perfect. one might also ask why a country like russia is not yet on this list. and of course the council has also mentioned a few procedural points - how to get on, how to get off - which we can discuss with each other. but i still feel that the reason for the council's rejection of the list was not a formal one, but that a number of extraneous considerations also played a role here. the argument has been repeatedly made in recent weeks that one should not put this or that third country on the list because they are important allies. if we indulge in this argument, the list will lose all credibility. it is clear that a third country will only have to lobby the member states intensively, and then it will be removed from the list. and once word gets out, that list is a toothless tiger. we cannot want that, because in the end it is also about ensuring that the european financial sector is not misused for money laundering, terrorist financing or for the purposes of organised crime. it is not appropriate to give european banking supervision new powers to combat money laundering on the one hand, but to leave a door open to action on the other, because we cannot agree on a list. i can only encourage the commission to come back with a proposal as soon as possible. i can only appeal to the council to approve this list.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not what's happened here in the last few days is a piece of the madhouse. the council must be told quite clearly that we have agreed on a methodology. the commission has pointed this out. there have been no methodological objections for months. then, as the list slowly becomes known, there are massive interventions from panama, from the corresponding american jurisdictions and also from saudi arabia. and suddenly there is a methodological criticism. this methodological criticism is not at all credible. the commission's assessment of the situation of the countries concerned has not been criticized in substance by the member states. instead, you are ignoring this important anti-money laundering tool. and so the question now is, what do we do next? i can only say that we must not give up now, but - as the commission has pointed out - the examination is not yet complete for important countries: russia, azerbaijan, the united arab emirates, countries where we have seen that there are major problems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and we need not a shorter list, stripped of problem countries, but a more sophisticated list. and the commission should finally publish all the country assessments so that we can have the transparent debate that the citizens deserve on this issue.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to enrich the debate with a practical example: every year, it is proven - several studies have now proven this - that billions of criminal money from criminal transactions flow into the german real estate market alone, and that is where the dirty money is laundered. this, of course, drives up prices in the housing market, and that drives up rents. the tenants, who then have to pay more and more rent and who in some cases can no longer afford their housing, are the ones who will have to pay the price for the council's political inaction at this point. and it is against this background alone that the council's rejection of the revised money laundering list is a scandal. the list presented by the commission is certainly flawed, but it is a step in the right direction. in any case, halfheartedness is not the way to win the fight against dirty money. it is won with determination and political will. and this is something that some european governments are clearly lacking.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his good work. the committee on budgets fully supports the rapporteur's statement. ensuring that it systems are compatible is an absolute necessity today. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament. we also need to be able to identify the identities more easily. this is a contribution to the prevention of crime, especially in the fight against terrorism. this requires investment. the total investment is estimated at eur 461 million over nine years. this is a large sum, but i am convinced that it will give us, the citizens of the eu, better security, and that is why it is money well spent. however, we must be clear that the necessary budgetary resources are available only for 2019 and 2020. the new multiannual financial framework must provide for this, and i therefore urge this house to be clear that if we start this project, we must also provide the necessary funds in the next budget, otherwise we will create a torso, and of course nobody will benefit from that.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, my thanks to the rapporteur. i would like in particular to thank her for supporting our initiative to include funds for local authorities and communities, because that’s where we see the action happening, where european citizens gather together to help people in need. this is really great. this is the europe we really need to see and it’s correct to put the money there. on the other hand, though, it’s an illusion to think that other countries are going to solve our problems: that we create closed centres somewhere in egypt or i don’t know where and that we put the problem away. this would violate human rights and it would also go totally against european union values. i believe we should not put money into violating what we ourselves stand for; what this union was founded on. instead, the european union needs human rights and it needs solidarity, so let’s make sure that the fund can indeed be used for integration, for supporting people in need and those people who are already active on the ground all over europe.
member of the commission. – madam president, i have already underlined, in our first debate, certain issues concerning all three funds, such as the need for flexibility, and synergies with all the other funds, and i am looking forward to the council soon adopting its negotiating mandate. eu funding is paramount for creating and sustaining strong external borders. already, four years into the current multiannual financial framework, eu funding has helped train almost 9 000 border guards. funding from the eu budget has, furthermore, supported frontline member states managing major migratory pressure at the eu external borders. such efforts need to be sustained and strengthened with a view to increased migratory challenges and unforeseen events at the union’s borders. synergies with union action in other fields also need to be reinforced in order to maximise impact on the ground. the commission’s response to the future challenges has been clear. we have proposed establishing a new, separate fund for integrated border management and further strengthening the european border and coastguard agency with a standing corps. the new border fund will, on the one hand, help member states to carry out customs controls by financing necessary equipment. on the other hand, through the border management and visa instrument, more than eur 8 billion will be devoted to strengthening the eu external borders, supporting the common visa policy and helping member states to develop new large-scale it systems and upgrade existing ones in line with the new requirements. this represents a nearly three-fold increase, compared with the current borders instrument. furthermore, the commission has proposed to improve its response capacity by allowing funds to be deployed swiftly where there are major synergies. the increased flexibility of the instrument will help adapt the allocation of funding to developments on the ground, such as disproportionate pressure at the european union’s external borders. a robust and coherent approach to border management can be achieved by improving cooperation with customs authorities, and this funding instrument will help realise that. cooperation with third countries is another important pillar of strong border management. allowing our border guards to work together with their counterparts in third countries, in a close and interoperable manner, will help reduce irregular migration and the loss of lives at sea. to achieve that, the border management and visa instrument has a strengthened external dimension while ensuring complementarity with action supported through external funding instruments. as i said before, capping funding for external action and allowing cooperation with third countries only in exceptional cases will hamper the union’s ability to act when it is most needed. i’m looking forward to hearing your views at this late point in the evening.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. i am glad that the commission has put forward a very good and consistent proposal for the future of frontex. i still call it that because that is the shortest and easiest way of putting it. i believe that it took a long time for the european external border guard to be ready to adopt a more robust approach, and in order to be able to implement this more robust and improved approach in order to guarantee the protection of the european external borders and all security issues, the committee on budgets will of course also do everything possible to ensure that the financial resources for the future, and in particular for next year and the year after, are included and are also appropriately allocated in the framework of the multiannual financial framework. i look forward to the legal basis being established so that we can guarantee what we have in common, namely that we must also work together to ensure security and border protection.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for this interesting, though rather late, debate on the future of financial support for border management. facilitating legitimate travel while ensuring the integrity and security of the schengen area is at the core of our citizens’ concerns, and that makes this one of the european union’s main priorities. we now have to demonstrate our determination to act on that priority by securing sufficient funding for this policy area and by creating a funding instrument that can deliver on it. i look forward, of course, to continuing to work with you on that.
i'm the reporter. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as we come to the last item on the agenda, which is the internal security and the new fund, so close to midnight, i would like to thank my shadow rapporteurs, who have all remained with me in this chamber, including the commissioner, and who have shown a great deal of perseverance in dealing with the isf here. i believe that the isf is becoming increasingly important as we and the member states, both because of the threat of international terrorism and because of the issues of combating international serious crime and organised crime, are coming increasingly to the understanding that we need to work together more, to work together more effectively, to exchange information as much as possible, to coordinate with each other and to be prepared for all requirements with the appropriate technical modernisation. in order to meet all the challenges here, the commission has presented the new regulation accordingly, and i consider it a very good basis for dialogue with the member states. we have tried to work together as a parliament, with a large majority, to focus on the priorities, in particular the intensification of the exchange of information between and within the law enforcement authorities and with third countries and international organizations. we also focused in particular on cross-border actions between eu law enforcement authorities in relation to serious and organised crime with a cross-border dimension, on strengthening the capacity to combat and prevent crime, including terrorism and cybercrime, in particular also in cooperation between authorities, civil society partners and private partners in the member states, and have also set certain thresholds for this. we are disappointed to find that it always takes a long time for the member states to start calling in the funds and to look at the programmes. i believe that the citizens of europe expect us, given the scale of the challenge, to work intensively and collectively on the security desires and the need for security that people feel and not to let national borders fail over and over again, that certain information does not flow, that certain data is not entered or that we are not always up to date with the latest information. that is why we have also ventured a little into something that may seem unusual, namely that we also want information to be exchanged with the intelligence services, because we see that, particularly in the field of serious international crime and terrorism, it is necessary to obtain adequate information from the intelligence services and to be able to network and analyse information with our competent european agencies, in particular europol. and if we want to extend europol, for example, then it is also necessary that the member states are prepared to actually want to exchange information. but we also want to make it clear that we only want to accept the involvement of the private sector in this respect - and the restriction has been accepted by a very large majority here - that the private sector is not abused for the performance of public tasks, but only where it is absolutely necessary, for example in the field of cybersecurity, or where it is necessary to seek cooperation with the private sector, for example because one is dealing with banks or, in some cases, with private individuals at large events. but public functions should not be replaced or exercised by private bodies, but should continue to be exercised by public security authorities. it is also necessary to cooperate with third countries and with the relevant international organisations, because international crime can only be fought if we cooperate with third countries.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work on this dossier. we greens are in favour of more cooperation in the field of internal security, and the text now before us contains some good compromises, including a kind of erasmus programme for police forces and also anti-racism training programmes for law enforcement agencies. we shall nevertheless vote against the report for the following reasons: firstly, the fund is intended to promote intelligence cooperation, and neither parliament nor the court of auditors has any control over this. five per cent of the funds requested by member states must be allocated to such intelligence cooperation. secondly, the fund in its planned form could also support military operations within the eu. we also consider this highly problematic. last but not least, i would like to mention that the report uses the term 'itinerant crime'. this formulation is a stigmatizing term often used to criminalize ethnic minorities.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it is no secret, i think, that the internal security fund is not one of our favorites, although there are some improvements that we really appreciate. what we do not like is the drastic increase of one and a half times in the funds. the second is the blending operations, where private financing - the rapporteur said a few things about this earlier - should be used, but we are not clear enough about this and we are really concerned about it. but the third point is the most important: the fund should also support intelligence services, to develop what is called a common intelligence culture, the exchange of best practice, knowledge, experts, best practice in the true sense of the word. i'll be quite honest: i know at least in the german area, that is, with us, actually no best practice of any intelligence service, only cover-up or bankruptcy, bad luck and breakdowns, as they say with us. i think intelligence is more part of the problem than the solution, and we're not gonna have the money for that.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for this interesting, if short, debate on the future of our financial support for eu security policy. i took note of all your comments, including the last points from mr marias, and i am looking forward to the council mandate too, so that we can start our trilogue. thank you very much, and sleep tight – though not here.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. today, women have the last word again. that means i get to be the closing speaker at midnight, so to speak. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. because there were really a lot of good and creative ideas, and i think we had a very good atmosphere in the discussions with each other, where we tried to approach each other and to deliver a good concept together. firstly, as regards the intelligence services, it would be a clear mistake to think that we are promoting intelligence services per se - that is not even allowed by the treaty. we want cooperation with the european agency europol. in the field of terrorism, we see very clearly that intelligence information must first be analysed and evaluated precisely and then verified to what extent it is useful and usable for the relevant investigations within the police's remit. and we have seen that they are, for example, in germany in the so-called rizin case, which would not have been uncovered without intelligence activities. this is just one example among many. we do not want to monitor and control the secret services - whatever that is, it is the competence of the member states, it is not up to us - but we want to promote an orderly and transparent form of cooperation, and i think that is sensible and useful. secondly, military operations in the eu are limited to the specific tasks. this means that if, for example, in france or belgium, military units have also helped to ensure internal security, for example after the bataclan in france, then this is eligible. other military operations are not part of the isf's mission. the tasks are very narrowly defined and cannot be extended beyond the scope of the competence at will. we have excluded these questions from the list of exceptions. and finally, if someone here in this house - madam president, forgive me, i have to say this - asks us to reconsider the issue of the death penalty, then i must say that i am sick to my stomach. we have the charter of fundamental rights and we will not respond with the same methods that the terrorists and the serious criminals are trying to fight us with, but we want to respond in accordance with the rule of law and give an answer with the means of the rule of law and with our laws and accordingly leave it to the courts to impose the penalties and then also deal with these people in accordance with the rule of law.
member of the commission. – mr president, it is a pleasure to address you this morning in this priority debate on climate change. your action and commitment has brought to wider public attention the necessity and urgency to act on climate change. as the world’s leading climate scientists told us in the intergovernmental panel on climate change report on 1.5 degrees, we must act urgently and collectively now. and political will is vital in driving this action. in this year of european parliament elections, we should look ahead at what else can be done. in europe we can be proud of what we have achieved so far. the campaign for the european parliament elections offers a great opportunity to tell our citizens what has already been achieved and have each european political party present their individual positions for the future. as you know, but probably the majority of our citizens are not yet aware, we have adopted an ambitious legislative framework for 2030. this would not have been achieved without the excellent work, commitment and determination of the members of this house. the energy union, with a forward-looking climate action, is now in place. this was one of the priorities of the juncker commission that you endorsed almost five years ago. the correct implementation of the european union’s climate and clean energy legislation should allow the european union to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 beyond our current 40% target to around 45% compared with 1990. but targets are not ceilings. with the right incentives we can reach even more. this will be achieved thanks to the clean energy transition framework recently adopted, based on a greater deployment of renewable energy sources and by putting energy efficiency first on the agenda: our target of 32.5% of energy savings by 2030 could even be revised upwards in 2023. this shows our citizens that climate and energy issues are on top of the european union agenda, that this priority is making real progress in europe; then to our international partners that the european union is leading by example and that we turn our pledges into concrete action. but now is also the moment to look ahead to 2050. we will have to upscale further our policies beyond 2030. the crucial thing is that we can only do it within a deep transformation of our model of economic development, one that delivers both climate neutrality and prosperity and fairness for european citizens. a model that is just for our citizens and fair for our industries. that is why the commission adopted in november last year its communication ‘a clean planet for all: a european strategic long-term vision for a prosperous, modern, competitive and climate neutral economy’. by proposing this vision, we have responded to the call by the european parliament and the european council. the commission’s vision intends to set a clear direction of travel for the european union’s climate policy and contribute to achieving the goals of the paris agreement. to see what the european union should do we studied eight scenarios in detail. five scenarios achieve at least 80% reductions by 2050 with varying different technologies or introduce circularity and energy efficiency. let’s be clear, these are not enough to meet the 1.5°c objective, and they are not what the commission proposes to do. to get to the 1.5°c objective we will need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to net zero by 2050. that is why we have developed two scenarios that effectively reach this aim of climate neutrality. one is focused on technology deployment. the other contains more elements of behavioural change, circularity and increased natural sinks. the analysis clearly shows that a climate neutral economy by 2050 is possible, following different pathways, but that it will require an ambitious combination of technologies and action. this is not only to protect our environment, but also to modernise the european union economy for a sustainable future, increase investment in competitive technologies and defend our citizens’ better quality of life. it means investing in a much more efficient economy, an economy that relies less on imported energy, an economy that provides for more local, higher-quality jobs. i am happy to see that the resolutions adopted in the parliamentary committees confirm this long-term ambition. i hope this is also the case in the plenary vote tomorrow. it is a big responsibility for all of us to lead and demonstrate that a socially fair transition to climate neutrality is not only possible, but also opens enormous economic opportunities. a transformation on this scale requires an open and inclusive debate. we all need to engage widely with citizens and civil society across europe to reach a common understanding on the way forward. together with my team i have already started our outreach to all european countries to launch the public debates, and i invite all of you to contribute to our 2050 vision for europe. here is where the impulsion that our young europeans are giving us comes in and is a fundamental part of this debate. it is really the moment to speak out. we are all beginning to suffer the consequences of climate change. many of us will not be here to see what a profoundly changed planet will look like in 2050. but the young europeans that are taking to the streets, and are doing so in growing numbers and in more and more cities across europe, will be in the prime of their adult life in 2050. i welcome their engagement – they have the biggest stake in the fight against climate change. we must embark in a process of transformation with a much greater sense of urgency than i see today. we have a little time left to stabilise climate change and fulfil the goals of the paris agreement. we have not yet run out of time, but we cannot afford to hesitate anymore. the actions and the words of these young europeans are a precious spur to action now, and we have a duty to act. we have sketched out how this can be done and presented a solid analysis of why and how europe can achieve climate neutrality; why this model can be replicated by other countries in the world; how climate neutrality, economic prosperity and social fairness can and must go together. we must listen to what the very great majority of europeans – and especially our future generations – are telling us. we must agree on the objective of a climate neutral, prosperous and fair europe in 2050, and on that basis, take the measures and actions that we know can make it happen.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the former german chancellor helmut schmidt, a social democrat, once said: 'if you have visions, go to the doctor.' i think that in politics we need visions, and in european politics in particular we need visions. the european commission has presented a vision: we want to be climate neutral by 2050. and the good thing about this vision is that it's backed by facts and scenarios. the commission's position is clear. we can even create additional jobs and generate additional growth in europe if we pursue this objective. students across europe are taking to the streets to fight climate change, and i believe that they will have already achieved a first success when we adopt this resolution tomorrow and support the objective of climate neutrality with great unity. but i'm afraid the students will have to continue to demonstrate - i hope, even outside of class time - because we are not the only ones who are decisive. the council must accept this scenario, and that will certainly be much more difficult than here in parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we as the epp are critical that we decide on a 55% target for 2030 now, because we have just passed the climate legislation. planning security is also an important asset. it is not helpful to throw overboard a decision that has just been made. i am also afraid that if we go too far with this resolution, the member states in the council who do not want climate neutrality in principle will be given arguments that we should not give them. i think that is why we have reached a good compromise in the negotiations between the groups and we should stick to it tomorrow. the epp is very much in favour of a just transition to climate neutrality. we must help the people in the coal regions to find alternative jobs. we must enable energy-intensive industry to produce carbon-free, for example the steel industry to produce carbon-free steel. it's technically possible, but we're gonna need a lot of support. our rapporteur, christian ehler, is currently discussing this subject in a trilogue, namely that we in the european union are actually supporting these technologies. we should be backing him up. i have invited the students who are demonstrating in my constituency to a discussion, and of course the students have the first say. of course, this discussion takes place in the afternoon and not during class time. it is important to me that we also enter into a dialogue with the companies. i still meet a lot of entrepreneurs who say, "we can't do this, we can't afford this". that's why we have to work together. because we are not a model for the world if we end up being carbon neutral, but industry produces in other parts of the world. this is why the slogan cannot be 'climate action instead of jobs' or 'jobs instead of climate action'. we as the epp want climate protection and jobs, and that is why we are fighting for the resolution that is on the table now to be adopted tomorrow without any substantial changes. i think we're giving the right signal.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we have guests in this house today, 60 young people from 20 countries up there on the tribune. we welcome them because they are great and they are the representatives of the youth for climate movement. (applause) it’s good that all parliamentarians have the chance to see young people in their constituencies but today we have the chance to see them here, which is even better. the movement was started last august by schoolgirl greta thunberg, who decided to strike in front of the swedish parliament, holding up a hand-painted sign, but today it’s a social movement. hundreds of thousands, in more than 70 countries, in more than 700 cities, are going to manifestations on the movement’s fridays for future. this is a social revolution that has now started everywhere and we the politicians, we the parliamentarians, have to be part of that. this is my firm conviction. one element more: i think they should be here in our place today and talk to us. they should come forward with their demands, they should question us and we should be giving answers. indeed this was also the idea of some groups, to invite them to speak today, but unfortunately it was not possible to have a majority for that in the conference of presidents. i regret very much that conservatives, liberals and the far right denied us this chance for an open debate today. (applause) unfortunately, they blocked an open discussion with the young people who are going on the streets each week. perhaps we can do better sometime. so the conclusion was that the groups who supported that – we the socialists and democrats, the greens and the gue/ngl group – invited them to our group meetings this week and we listened to them. we wanted to know what indeed they are longing for and the answer was completely clear. it was a call to action. it’s highly urgent that we do something. ‘ please do not postpone. please don’t be cheap in your political answers. please, no more delays because you are dealing with the biggest threat in human history’. and yes, the young people are right because they want to have a life without fear, a perspective for themselves and their future families, and a life without devastation. deswegen will ich den jungen leuten sagen: es reicht nicht, dass wir hier lächeln, es reicht nicht, dass wir so tun, als würden wir zuhören und keine konsequenzen ziehen. nein, konsequenzen müssen radikal gezogen werden, wenn wir diesen planeten retten wollen und wenn wir dafür sorgen wollen, dass alle auf diesem planeten eine zukunft haben. wir nehmen das sehr ernst. in meiner fraktion haben wir dafür gesorgt, dass wir unsere politischen programme überprüfen, und heute sind wir felsenfest entschieden, unsere politik jetzt, heute und morgen an den nachhaltigkeitszielen der vereinten nationen auszurichten. das bedeutet, es darf nie mehr eine debatte über wirtschaft geben ohne umwelt. aber es darf auch keine debatte über umwelt geben, ohne die soziale sicherheit in unseren gesellschaften mitzudenken und dafür zu sorgen, dass alle menschen etwas davon haben, von dem zukünftigen bild unserer guten gesellschaft, die wir zusammen bauen wollen. das heißt, ökologie ist nicht nur für die happy few. in der tat, dort wo arbeitsplätze wegfallen, müssen wir uns kümmern. wir müssen investieren, mit einer engagierten regionalpolitik, mit einer engagierten sozialpolitik, und wir müssen dafür sorgen – fragen sie herrn macron, der gerade dabei ist, seine lehrstunde zu bewältigen –, dass gerechtigkeit einkehrt in unserer gesellschaft. es kann nicht sein, dass die arbeitenden menschen alleine die transformation bezahlen müssen. ganz im gegenteil, wir werden die ökologische wende nur schaffen, wenn wir die soziale wende mitdenken und mitpraktizieren, und es wird nur eine gute soziale zukunft geben, wenn wir eine vernünftige transformation unserer industriegesellschaft schaffen und wenn wir dafür sorgen, dass diese welt in frieden mit ihren natürlichen ressourcen leben kann. das muss unser programm sein. ich habe gehört, was die kommission gesagt hat, ich habe den kollegen liese gehört, der sich in der tat engagiert für diese themen, aber, freundinnen und freunde, das ist doch ganz einfach! wenn ihr alle entschieden seid, dann machen wir das im neuen mandat. dann machen wir ganz einfach aus dem stabilitäts- und wachstumspakt einen nachhaltigkeitspakt. dann machen wir aus dem semester nicht mehr nur eine wirtschaftsüberlegung, sondern wir machen eine nachhaltigkeitspolitik. und den jungen leuten: keep on fighting! we are with you!
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, the european council will hold important discussions on a number of strategic challenges and opportunities facing the union. let me start with the economy. leaders will discuss the current economic situation and will set priorities for the 2019 european semester. the european council will also endorse the euro area recommendation. europe, like the rest of the world, faces the systemic changes brought about by such issues as digital transformation, the rise of the data economy and the transition to a greener economy. harnessing these opportunities will be key to our future prosperity. to strengthen our economic base, we need to make sure that our different policies, whether digital, industrial, single market or trade policies, are mobilised in unison to meet these challenges and advance the strategic interests of the union. the european council will hold a cross—cutting and forward—looking discussion on the issues. another critical issue is climate change, which we have just discussed in this session. as was noted in this debate, we, as a union, need to help raise global ambition and continue to lead the way on climate action. this means implementing the current 2030 framework, but also engaging in the long—term transition to a climate-friendly future. we know that we need to provide the right incentive for this transformation and we will have to make sure that we leave no one behind, taking into account regional specificities and different socio-economic circumstances. the european council will discuss the issue and provide guidance for further work in the council. china is a key global player in all these issues. leaders will have an in-depth exchange of views on our relations with china in preparation for the upcoming eu-china summit. finally, a cornerstone of our democracies is that citizens should be able to vote in a well-informed and safe manner. ahead of the european elections, the presidency will report on the latest developments to protect the democratic process from manipulation and interference from inside and outside the eu. leaders will also be informed of ongoing efforts to tackle disinformation more broadly, following the joint action plan presented last december by the commission and the high representative. next week, the european council will also meet in its article 50 format to discuss the latest developments regarding brexit. to be, or not to be, a member of the european union, to exist or not to exist – this is the question that the british parliament should address as we speak. unfortunately, we are not dealing with theatre, but with the real lives and jobs of eu and uk citizens. at this very late stage, we are still determined to facilitate the conclusions of the withdrawal agreement provisionally agreed last year. however, this should not be to the detriment of solidarity among member states, especially as regards ireland. to be frank, given the additional assurances we provided in december and january, and on monday, it is difficult to see what more we can do. within the limits of our principles and positions, notably as regards citizens’ rights and the irish backstop, we nevertheless remain open to talks and clarifications, if this can help the ratification process in the uk. these clarifications should not, however, contradict the very intention of the backstop, but only confirm that it is indeed intended to be of a temporary nature. on the eu side, we are as advanced as possible regarding the conclusion of the withdrawal agreement, on which i understand the consent of the european parliament could be given in a matter of days, should all the clarity needed on the uk side be provided. it is, however, very likely that even if the british parliament were to vote in favour of the withdrawal agreement in the coming days, this would have to be accompanied by a request for a technical, time-limited extension. this would mean amending the agreement and possibly delaying the consent process, as this extension would have to be agreed by the upcoming european council. when considering such a request, we would expect a credible justification for a possible extension and its duration. however, i am confident that our institutions will be able to complete this process in good time and consequently ensure the timely entry into force of the agreement. as i said before, we remain open for talks, as long as there is an end in sight and a purpose to these talks, which means that the uk government and the british parliament have to come out with a clear sense of direction as to where there is a majority and of timing as to when it will materialise. in the meantime, the only certainty we have is increased uncertainty for citizens and for businesses, with a clear economic impact in terms of levels of activity, investment and, more importantly, jobs. it is therefore all the more necessary to continue our preparations for all outcomes, including a no-deal scenario. in this context, the council and the member states at national level are intensifying their work on preparedness and contingency, building on the solid work already underway. i am very much encouraged by the large number of contingency and preparedness—related measures that our institutions have been able to agree, in spite of the heavy workload at this late stage of the mandate. the president is confident that, with your cooperation, it will be possible to complete the adoption of the remaining contingency measures in due course, but is hoping, at the same time, that they won’t be needed.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, so here we are. after another vote in the house of commons, the withdrawal agreement has been voted down. regardless of the extra clarifications given, regardless of the tremendous effort by michel barnier and jean-claude juncker to help theresa may clarify the issues, still the withdrawal agreement was voted down. so again, today, we will be waiting for the next vote in the house of commons, because the only ones who can give us any direction on where we need to go from here are the members of parliament in the united kingdom. i believe that this house and the commission remain on the same line – seeking to do as little harm as possible to europeans, whether they live in the united kingdom or on the continent. this is our duty: to think about our citizens, to think about our enterprises, to think about our interests, broadly, on both sides of the channel. i say this because what we have tried to do – what, mainly, michel barnier has tried to do – is to make sure that the red lines put on the table by the british government, and the need for us to avoid a hard border on the island of ireland and to maintain the integrity of the internal market, are brought together. and i do not see any better solution than the withdrawal agreement with all the clarifications given. so now, this is where we are. of course, we will remain in this position of wanting to do as little harm as possible in a very harmful process – because brexit is very harmful, to the united kingdom and to the european union. but it is our duty, on the basis of a vote by the british people, to work towards a brexit that does as little harm as possible. this position will not change. today, however, we are in the hands of the british political system. they should tell us where they want to go from here. the solution will have to come from london, and we’ll take it from there. and, of course, there are many other issues europe has to deal with in the next couple of years, and that is why the european council is also focusing on other issues. industrial policy: our industry is strong and it is the engine of our economy. it employs 32 million people and accounts directly for more than two-thirds of our exports. it is one of the main reasons we have partners lining up at our door to secure free and fair trade agreements. but we must do more. we want to see strong european companies, bolstered by fair competition at home, leading in the world and addressing major challenges such as climate change. in particular, we urge member states to make the most of major common european projects that matter to all of us, for instance in strategic areas such as next-generation batteries to store clean energy, or the work on artificial intelligence. most importantly, we want to make sure that, as industry and technologies develop, we continue to defend our values because ultimately we are doing all of this in the interest, and for the wellbeing, of all europeans. that is why we are proposing action on work-life balance, equal pay for equal work in the same place and the european labour authority, to give but a few examples. it is all part and parcel of our consistent effort to make our single market of 500 million informed consumers and thriving businesses deeper and fairer. it’s high time to deliver on all its dimensions, particularly in services, the digital economy and energy and also, importantly, the capital markets union. ce conseil européen sera aussi l’occasion de parler de notre relation avec la chine, à quelques jours du sommet union européenne-chine. la chine est à la fois, dans différents domaines politiques, un partenaire de coopération, un partenaire de négociation, un concurrent économique, un rival systémique promouvant des modèles alternatifs de gouvernance. les autorités chinoises ont exprimé, à maintes reprises, leur volonté de contribuer à un avenir qui soit celui d’une mondialisation économique plus ouverte et plus inclusive. l’union européenne, pour sa part, est l’une des économies les plus ouvertes au monde, mais elle n’est pas offerte. elle est un ardent défenseur du multilatéralisme, sur la base de valeurs qui profitent à tous et de règles qui doivent être équitables pour tous, sans pour autant être un adepte naïf du libre-échange. et c’est la raison pour laquelle nous avons notamment proposé de mettre en place un instrument international sur les marchés publics, afin de promouvoir un accès ouvert aux marchés publics dans le monde entier. c’est dans notre intérêt mutuel de faire en sorte qu’il y ait entre la chine et l’union européenne encore plus de confiance et plus de coopération, plus de réciprocité aussi, afin que nos investisseurs et nos entreprises bénéficient en chine des mêmes conditions d’ouverture que celles offertes aux investisseurs et aux entreprises de chine en europe. malheureusement aujourd’hui ce n’est pas le cas. il va sans dire que nous avons l’obligation de défendre nos valeurs, nos intérêts stratégiques et de protéger nos industries, nos travailleurs et nos citoyens contre toute concurrence déloyale. c’est pourquoi nous avons proposé d’établir un nouveau cadre pour le filtrage des investissements étrangers, afin de préserver nos actifs stratégiques européens. je tiens ici à saluer le travail remarquable du parlement pour l’adoption de cette initiative en un temps record. il est tout aussi clair que nous avons intérêt, non seulement à préserver, mais aussi à améliorer le système multilatéral existant, notamment sur les questions des aides et des subventions d’état. la chine doit aussi assumer sa part de responsabilité. echte souveränität kann die europäische union auch als weltweite vorreiterin im klimaschutz zeigen. bis zum jahr 2050 können wir der erste große klimaneutrale wirtschaftsraum der welt werden und damit leuchtturm für andere sein. verantwortung für die klimaziele zu übernehmen, das heißt für die kommission, ein viertel des zukünftigen mehrjährigen finanzrahmens den klimazielen zu widmen, unsere energieeinfuhren bis 2050 mehr als zu halbieren und dafür in erneuerbare energien zu investieren, niemandem die existenzgrundlage zu entziehen, denn es ist möglich, emissionen zu senken und gleichzeitig innovative, hochwertige arbeitsplätze zu schaffen. ich danke diesem hause für seine unterstützung unserer vorschläge für nachhaltige investitionen, auf die wir stolz sein können. europa übernimmt damit weltweit eine führungsrolle, wenn es darum geht, private investitionen umzuorientieren, damit sie zu der verwirklichung der ziele des pariser abkommens beitragen und damit einen klimaneutralen weltwirtschaftsraum schaffen. es bewegt mich, dass viele junge menschen wieder auf die straße gehen, um für noch ambitioniertere ziele zu kämpfen. das ist wirklich ein europa, das mir mut für die zukunft macht, und ich danke wirklich greta und allen anderen jungen leuten für diese inspiration. (beifall) mut brauchen wir auch, um eine der größten herausforderungen für unsere demokratien zu bewältigen: die bewussten versuche, unsere debatten und unsere wahlen zu manipulieren. unsere botschaft ist: europa bleibt offen. die meinungsfreiheit ist weiterhin unser höchstes gut. aber wir sind nicht naiv. wir sind uns bewusst, dass es kräfte gibt, die unsere demokratie untergraben wollen, und das wird im wahlkampf eine große herausforderung sein; wir müssen darauf achten. ich begrüße daher, dass das europäische parlament und die mitgliedstaaten die maßnahmen der europäischen kommission unterstützten, um gegen desinformation und eingriffe in unsere wahlen vorzugehen. aber wir stehen erst am anfang, es gibt noch viel zu tun. denn souverän bleiben wir als europäische union nur, wenn wir kompromisslos für unsere werte aufstehen – innerhalb der europäischen union und auch draußen. (beifall)
chief negotiator. mr president, i greet each and every one of you on this special and important morning in this long negotiating process. my first words, madam minister, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, will be to reiterate to you, on behalf of the team which i have the honour of leading with the confidence of president juncker, my sincere and lasting gratitude for the confidence which parliament has shown us, and me. i said earlier, before the conference of presidents, that this trust does not fall from the sky, it is not artificial, nor is it given as a blank cheque: it is a trust that has been based on dialogue, transparency, since the first day, and will remain based on this transparency and this dialogue. the vote last night - which vice-president timmermans and you, madam minister, have mentioned - prolongs and aggravates a major uncertainty which was created almost three years ago by the sovereign decision, which we respect, even if we regret it, of the united kingdom to leave the european union. this uncertainty is of course of particular concern to the united kingdom and northern ireland, but it is also of concern to each of our countries and to ourselves. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you that the responsibility for the brexit decision lies with the united kingdom alone. today, the united kingdom has the primary responsibility for breaking the impasse in which these negotiations are now. this was clearly and strongly stated by the president of the european council, donald tusk, yesterday evening, immediately after the vote. we have sought together solutions to every problem created by brexit - and there are countless: human and social problems, legal and technical problems, economic and financial problems - in order to manage all the consequences and to accompany the uk in an orderly exit. this has been our line from the beginning and it will remain our line. since the first day of the negotiations, the european union's objective has been to reduce this uncertainty by ensuring an orderly withdrawal. secondly, thanks to this orderly withdrawal and the basis of confidence we are creating, we must take the necessary time - but a time which will necessarily be framed, between 21 months and 4 years - for another negotiation. i have always said that this other negotiation would be the most important, beyond brexit and separation: the negotiation of the future relationship we want to build with the united kingdom, which will of course remain, under all circumstances, a friendly country, an ally and a partner country. that is what we have done by negotiating for months with the uk government, and never against it, a withdrawal agreement which is clearly in the interests of citizens, businesses and all stakeholders on both sides of the channel and on both sides of the irish sea. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind everyone of a fact. if the united kingdom still wants to leave the european union, and leave it in an orderly way, if that is still its will, the treaty that we have negotiated for a year and a half with the government of theresa may is and will remain the only treaty available. i want this to be clear. in recent days we have again worked hard, at the request of the british government, to provide explanations, clarifications and guarantees in the form of two documents on which we agreed on monday evening, here, mr president, in the european parliament's premises in strasbourg, where we were hosted. mrs may told us that she would also like to make a unilateral statement. what was the subject of the latest discussion between the european union and the british government on monday? the aim was to provide the british parliament, the house of commons, with new clarifications, new assurances on a particular point, namely the temporary nature of the safety net. we have done all we could to help the british government to win the support of the house of commons, in the continuing concern, which i have also expressed on your behalf, to preserve peace and stability on the island of ireland at all costs. the aim is to respect, in all its dimensions, the good friday agreement. it is also our responsibility to preserve the integrity of our internal market, which is that of each of our 28 countries today, soon to be our 27 countries, that is to say, to preserve the quality and safety to which consumers are entitled for the products they consume, including food, food safety, protection against all animal health risks, the preservation of national and european budgets (which requires fiscal controls for customs duties and vat duties), and the security or protection we owe to all companies in each of your countries in respect of compliance with the standards imposed on imported products. i would remind you that this is not a theoretical or dogmatic question for northern ireland: it is not a question of whether or not we are flexible, it is a highly practical question which concerns peace in ireland, a peace which must be permanent, and which concerns the protection of the internal market. after brexit, any goods, any live animals that enter northern ireland from britain will also enter poland, slovenia, belgium, germany, each of our countries, because it is the single market and there will be no border. we must therefore find a way - and we will take the time to do so - to make these controls operational in the three aspects i have mentioned - consumers, budget, businesses - without, of course, recreating a 'hard' frontier. on yesterday's vote, i noticed that some members who wanted a second referendum, others who preferred a no deal scenario, trivialised the new legal safeguards we had found in our discussion with theresa may. i think, however, that these guarantees, these explanations, which we agreed on monday evening with the support of the british government, are significant. president juncker said it right away: there will be no further assurances or interpretations. we can't go any further. in conclusion, a word about what's going to happen from now on. where are we this morning? the prime minister's announced vote on no deal tonight, on a possible extension request, will take place in the house of commons. after these votes, it will be up to the british government to tell us, i hope in a positive way, how it intends to proceed to finally reach a constructive majority on a proposal. the united kingdom, it is its responsibility, must tell us what it wants for our future relationship, what its choice is, what is, as you said, madam minister, the clear line that must be its own. that is the question that is now being asked and that we are waiting for an answer to. and this question comes before any decision on a possible extension. to prolong this negotiation, what to do, since the article 50 negotiation is over? we have the treaty, it's here. if that question is asked, we will wait for the answer. i would like to reiterate that the time is very serious, since the risk of no deal has never been higher: the risk of the united kingdom leaving the european union without an agreement, in a disorderly manner, even by accident. i recommend that we do not underestimate this risk, nor its consequences. we are also solemnly calling on all the parties concerned to prepare for it. for our part, the european commission, our general secretariat, president juncker have given very clear instructions in this regard, all the member states, thanks to the work of all the presidencies and yours, madam minister, in particular, are also preparing for it. we do not want that scenario. we have never worked for this option of no deal or no deal, no deal, ever. we have always worked towards an agreement and an orderly withdrawal, but we are ready, the european union is ready to deal with this situation. i would like to remind you that in the absence of another solution, which is agreed by default, simply by the operation of the treaties, we are faced with the risk of a no deal. i am asked sometimes, as i was asked this morning, are you disappointed after this vote? other my answer, our answer, shall always remain the same. we remain respectful of the uk and its people. we remain determined, calm and united and we will remain respectful, calm, determined and united until the end of this extraordinary negotiation. we shall defend the interests of the union and those of all its citizens. that will remain the line of your negotiator. (applause) i would like to thank you.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, what a disaster after yesterday’s vote! i want to speak about an impression i got when i was in porto recently and i spoke with young people who had been working for a few years in london. after the political problems and the economic problems in portugal, they had left the country and had worked there, and then they came back to portugal because they had so much uncertainty in great britain. they are enjoying life again in their home country. they spoke about their friends in great britain, and they told me how frustrated the young generation is in great britain, how helpless they feel and how angry they are about the failure of the whole political class in great britain. a whole generation will suffer because of what is happening today in london. a whole generation has fewer chances for the future. a whole generation will not enjoy the same benefits as the previous generation had, and a whole generation is victim of the political failure of a political class in london. that’s why my message, first of all, is that we, as europeans, are on the side of the young generation in great britain: we won’t leave you alone in this difficult situation. the first message is this. the second concerns what to do now. preparation is needed for the worst-case scenario. we cannot rescue great britain – it’s up to them to decide what they want to do – but we have to prepare for the worst-case scenario. the second thing is that, if the political class fails and there is no majority possible in the uk parliament, the logical next step is to ask the people again. that is, from a democratic point of view, the logical next step. the third option on the table is a debate about prolongation – but for what purpose? we need reasonable arguments for any kind of prolongation. that is why – let me be clear, from my point of view, and from the european people’s party (epp) point of view – there is no need for, and no option of, a single day of prolongation if we get no clarification from the british side as to what they want to achieve in that period of time. those are the three options on the table, but i want to add a further important element. firstly, the young generation; second, what to do; and the third element is a kind of a fireball. we, as europeans, are, for the moment, very stable thanks to the work of our representatives: jean claude juncker, michel barnier, and, here in the house, president tajani and guy verhofstadt. we are stable, we are strong, we are united. we have a clear opinion of we want to achieve and what we want to do. but there is a risk, in the next few weeks, that the political uncertainty in london could also infect the european decision-making process. there is a risk of this, and we need to bear two aspects in mind. one is that, again and again, discussion in the european council is mainly about brexit, and not about china, not about trade or trump, and not about the real issues which are important to the citizens of this european union. that’s why we cannot continue like this, with political space occupied only by the political uncertainty in london. the second thing is that the european elections are ahead of us. we are all preparing the campaign, indeed a few of us are already in it, and what we have to clarify is that the european elections are a place and a moment where europeans will decide about their future. that moment cannot be occupied by legal and political uncertainty with the brexit situation, and that’s why i think we are running out of time. that’s why the brits must clarify – hopefully by the next council meeting – what they want to achieve, what they want to have in the future. for those in the european union who believe in the project of the european union, this development is certainly an important wake-up call. we see the economic and political uncertainty in london, and those who don’t want to follow that path now need to fight against the populists and the extremists on this continent. brexit was made by populism, by easy answers, and they cannot give us any kind of answer now as to how they want to deal with this brexit outcome. that is why, for the european elections, we now need to form a strong coalition: a confirmation of partnership in europe, a confirmation about the common basis for the future of this continent, a confirmation that we believe in the european project.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the spring summit is the traditional place where we agree on the economic situation in the european union. we have already spoken this morning about climate change, and i have an appeal to the commission and to the council representatives: we do not have time. let's make this spring summit a sustainability summit! i think that franz timmermans is right. we cannot wait to fight climate change, we must review our instruments, we must make the stability and growth pact a sustainability pact, and the instruments we have to measure and recommend - the semester and how things are technically called - must become sustainability instruments. that must be the answer to the situation this spring. and i ask all of you who have influence to use your hearts to make sure that this paradigm shift that we so desperately need finally happens. we must pick up where antónio guterres left off 20 years ago - today he has the central responsibility for the united nations - when he proposed, under the portuguese presidency, to think together about the economy, the environment, social cohesion and competitiveness. we've lost two decades. it is time to make up for this time with a new leap for politics, for the european union. and if it is true, manfred weber, that young people from london are suddenly back in portugal, then it has something to do with the development of this country. antínio costa, the current prime minister, has led portugal to a new prosperity with a policy of social cohesion, economic modernisation and environmental policy. because they're not opposites. and he did so at a time when the european people's party and other hardliners were seeking to impose sanctions on portugal. that's the change we need. let's be honest with each other. our societies need fresh energy, our economies need air to breathe, and our minds need fresh thinking. get ready to do it! then we won't have to talk about brexit and the ensuing charm-fests elsewhere. that's the answer to brexit, no matter what happens in the concrete now, in all these technical details. this must be the european response to brexit: have fresh courage and come up with a new concept with the people and not against the people! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. brexit has become an extremely critical situation. we know this, and all we can do is appeal to the house of commons to make a sensible decision against a hard brexit. anything else would be a decision against the people of britain. we can only hope that parliament can agree, beyond the various political groups, on a policy of keeping britain closely within the european union. but if that does not work, if this parliament is blocked, then it owes something to the people of britain. take back control, theresa may, means that people must be allowed to decide. if parliamentarians can no longer do their job because they cannot communicate, the people must have a chance to make a new decision. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. this must be put on the agenda, this must be discussed. the summit should address two important issues: ensuring that our european elections are free and fair. i urge more to be done here. what has been done so far is not enough. the internet companies' own commitments will not be enough. and one last thing: the asylum package should be back on the agenda. it is a real, real insolence that we do not react here and that we let people continue to die in the mediterranean without taking action. and the comments which take the decisions of the european parliament seriously: please make sure that this is put back on the agenda.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to say to mr timmermans that he did say that there is no better solution. monsieur barnier, vous avez dit qu’il n’y avait aucun autre traité possible que le vôtre. i don’t think this is true. i think there is a better solution and that better solution is to keep britain in the european union. (applause) let me tell you, please, how you can help do this. first of all, let’s stop bashing london. there are experts in this house who continually bash london. here’s one, mr farage; and there’s one, mr verhofstadt. there’s no difference in their approach and their criticism of london. secondly, i think it is time that the commission finally admits that they have some responsibility for brexit. britain was always in favour of subsidiarity, decentralisation and competitiveness, and brussels has continuously violated these principles. it is like a country joining a football club that then decided to play golf or hockey. so, finally, who has really left whom? thirdly, from a business perspective, we have to recognise that brexit is not only a disaster for britain, it is also a disaster for the european union. let’s face it, britain is today the largest single customer of the european union and britain leaving is the equivalent of 19 small or medium—sized countries leaving at the same time. let’s also recognise that, in this house, britain has always been the advocate for freedom, self—reliance and competitiveness. without britain in the european union, i tell you that this european union will remain uncompetitive compared to other regions like north america, asia, china, japan, south east asia, and so on. so i think the commission now has a historic chance to do something. help the remainers in britain to go for a second referendum, and help the brexiteers to change their mind so they can save their face. i ask you not only to support, but to offer an extension to, britain without any conditions. that is number one. number two: offer them some more autonomy over controlling their own immigration. that would be the trick to get britain successfully to organise a second referendum and to stay in the european union. the european union will never be complete without britain. (scattered applause)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you are all familiar with the film 'every day the groundhog comes'. i am reminded of this when i think of the forthcoming council summit, which will again be overshadowed by the discussion of the consequences of brexit and the way in which the negotiations between the eu and the uk are moving forward or are being blocked. the following are important issues: the eu itself was one of the initiators and a key player in the creation of the paris climate agreement. the eu has been responsible for ensuring that there will be a un agreement on sustainable development. these should be the issues we are dealing with, because then we as the eu would be able, both within the eu and also in terms of what is happening around us, to really make progress, to influence things and ultimately to influence vital foundations for citizens, for people globally. that would be our responsibility as the european union. instead, we are faced with the fact that for the second time the withdrawal agreement has failed in the british house of commons. the strategy of the british government of theresa may has gone completely against the wall. we do not have a political majority for an orderly exit from the eu. that's the bottom line. we don't have a majority for an orderly exit from the eu. the consequences are primarily for the people in the uk, in the eu, the uk citizens in the eu, the eu citizens in the uk and the irish citizens in both the republic of ireland and northern ireland, because most of them do not have the chance to move their companies from london to belfast in the short term - obviously because they expect belfast to remain in the eu somehow. most of them also don't have the opportunity to simply move their assets or investment opportunities elsewhere. and most of them do not have the chance to quickly arrange for family members to become eu citizens in their own family - that is not possible for most of them. most of them suffer because of their access to health care, because of the impact on education, because of the social impact, because of the impact that this will have on people, especially in terms of economic and structural development of their regions. the european union should be most indebted to you, the citizens. we must not make offers to the government in london, not to the house of commons in london, but to the citizens. that is our obligation, and that is why we should also be involved in this, and i think there are two consequences that we need to talk about: if we are preparing for the 29th of march, for the disorderly withdrawal, that is to say, for the mad friday which we are obviously going to have, then we must rely on the preservation of civil rights. that means we have to do something to ensure that the rights of citizens in the uk and those in the eu are not compromised. we're here in the line of duty. we have taken responsibility and made commitments here, and now we must honour them. it is high time we said that loud and clear. and we must continue to signal our firm support for the republic of ireland and make it clear that we are against a hard border and against any change to the good friday agreement in all its components and that the rights and security of people in this part of europe must not be jeopardised. but there is a very simple solution to the backstop problem: no borders on the island of ireland, no controls, no barriers. the irish unity would be the simplest solution. then the eu would have no problem, the irish would have no problem, and the brexiteers would have no problem at all. that would be a solution. the british government has already begun to declare today that there are no checks between the republic of ireland and northern ireland. perhaps she herself is now counting on this solution. perhaps a smaller britain is more important to them than the interests of some of the parties, and i think we should just take them at their word.
mr president, mr timmermans, mr udo bullmann, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. there is a coalition in the house of commons which is unable to reach a joint positive majority. there are the remainer who don't want a contract because they hope for a referendum and they play hardball. there are those, the farages of the world, who do not want any deal with the european union. and there are those who look at this for partisan reasons. there were three labour people who voted yes. on this basis, there is currently no majority for a constructive solution in the house of commons. that's why the two major parties need to talk to each other. they have to show us where there is a majority, a constructive majority, that is worth talking about. i do not think we can extend the deadline without that clarification. no extension without clarification. there must be a clear rule here. just to extend it and see what happens doesn't seem appropriate to me. and i think the house of commons needs to come to a decision in the next 14 days to move forward on that basis. we need this security after having to negotiate for two, two and a half years in the way we have negotiated because the conditions were never there in britain. michel, thank you very much for the work you have done, the work the commission has done, the work your team has done. but i think we could have put our hands together and yet nothing would have been passed in the house of commons because there is this negative majority for the reasons i have just mentioned. more was not possible and more cannot be delivered unless the interests of the european union are damaged. and it must be clear what comes with open borders. the united kingdom cannot sneak into the single market without meeting the conditions of the single market, without entering into the obligations of the single market. these statements made this morning are populist and malicious and cannot be accepted in this way. that would be a sneaking into the single market, which would not be acceptable.
in writing. i still hope even though time is running out that there will be an orderly withdrawal of the united kingdom from the eu. we cannot rule out a postponement of the withdrawal date in general. without a regulation, the uk is reduced to the status of a third country. this would make customs controls at the eu's external border mandatory for all trade. and it would lead to a border between northern ireland and ireland. but we also have to look out for our own interests: the elections are due in may, and by then the process of withdrawal must be completed. the uk must then accept the negotiated outcome or withdraw its withdrawal request.
rapporteur. – mr president, over a year ago we adopted a position on the dual-use regulation that would restrict the export of spyware to dictatorships and ease the export of encryption software: 92% of us did this because democracy, freedom and human rights are being violently attacked all over the world. new dictatorships in africa and the middle east are developing, and old ones like china are getting more and more oppressive. horrific cases involving journalists – like jamal khashoggi being dismembered and burned in a furnace by saudi arabia for defending freedom and democracy – are in the news. these and other crimes have been made possible with european spyware in the wrong hands. we have decided, for moral and security reasons, that we, the european union, cannot be part of this process. we strive to protect people all over the planet who wish to improve their society, who speak truth to power and who want to live in freedom and safety. we strive to protect our values. the european council disagrees with us and has refused to adopt a common position in order to start discussions on this. it was, especially, a last-minute change of heart by mr macron himself that stopped us: france, sweden, finland and other member states believe that european companies should be accomplices to these crimes and make a little profit as well. (muted heckling)i call on the council to listen to all the ngos, the commission and the european parliament, and to put values before profit. and now let us vote on this and other safeguards against a hard brexit. (applause)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the recommendations for the opening of negotiations between the eu and the us (2019/2537 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, the joint agreement between president juncker and president trump of last july outlined a focused and positive trade agenda with the usa, our first and most important trade and investment partner, and it has helped to de-escalate tensions in this very critical relationship. since last july, i have met my counterpart, us trade representative robert lighthizer, five times to review the implementation of the work programme identified in the joint statement. at our meeting last week, we evaluated progress in the work streams of the executive working group and i debriefed him on the process for adoption of the eu’s negotiating authorisations. i conveyed to him that there is momentum in the council to conclude, in the weeks ahead, the discussions on authorisation for both negotiations – one on elimination of tariffs on industrial products and the other one on conformity assessment. i expressed our commitment fully to respect the implementation of the joint statement as it stands, and reiterated that future negotiations would not touch upon agriculture. i am sure that this house is fully aware of the importance of the transatlantic trade relationship, which has been and will remain a central artery of the world economy. the carefully defined, narrow and meaningful agenda of the working group can be to our mutual advantage. given the size of the eu-us trade relationship, elimination of tariffs, even though they are today already moderately low, will lead to important cost reductions for economic operators. many industrial sectors on both sides of the atlantic operate with small profit margins due to the size and efficiency of our respective markets. a limited yet very meaningful agreement on industrial goods and tariffs would give transatlantic companies of all sizes a comparative advantage and would support their global capacity to compete. we estimate an increase in bilateral eu-us export of 8%, and respectively 9%, and that is around eur 26 billion, so quite a lot of money. in a different strand, our work on conformity assessment, standards and regulatory issues could leverage the resulting economic benefits for a free-trade agreement for industrial products. we launched consultations with stakeholders last week, inviting them to come forward with proposals, and we’re looking forward to receiving their support for our discussions with the usa in this field. i am fully aware that some of you here fear we will be negotiating under threat. in that regard, i would like to assure you that i have conveyed a very clear message to our counterparts – as late as last week and also before that – that unilateral trade actions from the usa on eu imports would risk damaging our efforts to strengthen transatlantic relations at a critical time. i’ve also made it clear that, while it would not be of our choosing, if the usa did take unilateral trade measures against us we would immediately respond. indeed, the negotiations would stop – that is clearly provided for in the draft negotiating directive – and we would also promptly adopt rebalancing measures. i hope, of course, that wisdom will prevail, and that this will not happen, so we can continue to work towards a mutually beneficial outcome to build this relationship. the timely adoption of these mandates would be an important signal of the eu’s good faith in relation to honouring the joint presidential statements last july: no more, no less. delay in the adoption risks initiating an unconstructive cycle of exchanges and allegations on the eu’s commitment to the joint statement. so i sincerely hope that you will support our negotiations with the usa. your support is, of course, very important. it would show unity among the eu institutions, and unity is our strength. in contrast, and this is important, a vote by this house against these limited negotiations would be a vote against the well-balanced and proportionate approach of the july statement, which we deployed to reduce trade tensions. it would therefore be a vote in favour of maintaining current trade tensions with the usa at a time when ideas to bring down these tensions are on the table. especially regarding cars, as we have included that in our proposal, it is much better for the transatlantic relationship to bring car tariffs down to zero percent. it’s better for the producers, for the workers and consumers: much better than slapping additional tariffs on cars and car parts. let me assure you that i will listen very carefully to this debate, to your ideas and recommendations, and i would reiterate that, once we have started negotiations, we will actively be informing this house on a regular basis on all aspects of our discussions, as we always do.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam commissioner, first of all i would like to pay my respects to you. their efforts to restore normalcy to transatlantic relations are important and can only lead to lasting results through constructive negotiations. i therefore recommend that this house act responsibly in tomorrow's vote and vote in favour of such a mandate. it is in the interest of all of us to explore possible points of common ground with the united states and to use these to defuse trade tensions. but if we suddenly demand that the commission should show a firm edge, which is the only language that trump could understand, we are not concerned about all those who are suffering the daily damage caused by possible sanctions, whether on cars or other products. instead, we should return to the negotiating table, particularly because of the differences between the eu and the usa. what have we got to lose? if these negotiations were to fail, they would at least be a constructive attempt to put relations back on track. if they are successful, we will not only have defused a trade conflict, but we will also have been able to remove tariffs and barriers to trade. and finally, i would like to add one final sentence: the world is moving, it is moving forward whether we negotiate or not, and i believe that it is the duty of the great democracies to work together.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we wont negotiate with a gun to our head this has been the principle of the european union in many press statements recently: we do not negotiate under pressure of blackmail. now i wonder, what has changed? the us tariffs on steel and aluminium are in force, there are additional tariffs on spanish olives. we have the threat under mr trump of additional tariffs on cars and motor vehicle parts, he has just completed an investigation. there has been no change in the us pressure. on our side, we have made many concessions. imports of liquefied natural gas from the usa increased by 180%, and imports of soybeans increased by 112%. the commission has confirmed the sustainability of american soya beans in an emergency procedure, for only two months, and they can now also be blended into biodiesel, which means an additional increase in imports of american soya beans. so we have already made a number of concessions as the european union. i ask you: where are the concessions of the united states? where is the pressure from the united states being reduced? i can't see anything. and while that is the case, we must be very confident in our position. and secondly, in july last year we decided not to conclude an agreement which does not refer to and implement the paris agreement on climate change. today, a few hours before this debate, we discussed climate action. all this is not reflected in the mandate proposals, not even an impact assessment on the climate impact of this agreement. no, let us state our demands with confidence! i am still of the opinion that we should uphold the rule of law and reject the rule of the stronger.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. madam president, commissioner malmström, president trump recently threatened us as the european union: i will tariff the hell out of you if we do not agree to a trade agreement on its terms. that sounds like a line from a bad western. you said in the mirror a year ago, "we will not negotiate until trump takes the gun from our chest again", and now you want to surrender? i am disappointed that you have proposed to the council that you be given a negotiating mandate for an agreement despite the increased threat of car tariffs. they even throw their own principles overboard: although the substantive agreement is supposed to cover more than 90% of all goods traded between the eu and the us, you refuse to allow a study to be carried out to assess the economic, social and environmental consequences. there is not even a standard chapter on the rules for the protection of workers and the environment in the production of these goods. there is no consultation with the population. you also close your eyes to trump's decision to leave the paris climate agreement - my colleagues have already spoken about this. according to our principles, the trump administration has disqualified itself as a negotiating partner. you know what trump's up to. he wants to force the opening of our market to american agricultural products. but that would be the end of thousands of our farmers, and of our sustainable agriculture. have you forgotten the ttip protests of millions of europeans? in return, he will give nothing, but will only refrain from imposing punitive duties on cars at this point. commissioner, i am calling for a majority for our motions in the vote tomorrow to recommend that the council not give a mandate for these negotiations.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. president juncker's visit to the white house in july was a stroke of genius. if the commission had quickly presented a mandate based on the results of this visit, we would be in a better position today. but they have squandered political capital and time on the wrong tactics, out of a great fear of public debate and an unrealistic appreciation of the persistence of the us administration. you are saying, commissioner, that unilateral trade actions would risk damaging our efforts to strengthen transatlantic trade relations. that's the way frightened souls talk. mr lighthizer, on the other hand, speaks to us in command. and all i can say is, if you're behaving like a trained dog, you're gonna get a lot of footsteps. i'm all for negotiating, but not on the basis of such a weak mandate. that's why we have to reject it and come back and force you to come up with a better mandate.
i have a great request for the following procedure of spontaneous voting: i have ten applications and i would like to take them all. the basic condition for this is that you please respect your speaking time. otherwise i will not let all ten speak. spontaneous speech
thank you, commissioner. mr etheridge, i have to tell you that i could not give you the floor again because you already had a blue card and time constraints also meant that i could not accept your speech again. a motion for a resolution was tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 14 march 2019.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by tom vandenkendelaere, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies: annual growth survey 2019 (a8-0159/2019) and the report by marian harkin, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies: employment and social aspects in the annual growth survey 2019 (a8-0162/2019).
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the central message was that growth would weaken significantly in the coming months. the economic situation is weakening, and the extent of the expected weakening and its impact on the european economy will depend on our actions: on the one hand, on our policy actions in the past few years, during which we have benefited from a very positive economic development, but also on our policy actions in the coming months. looking at the country reports in more detail, i get the impression that many member states are not sufficiently prepared for a weakening economy. the fat years were not used. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this very worrying finding raises the question for me once again why the commission is not more vigorous in enforcing the implementation of the country-specific recommendations and compliance with the fiscal rules. we see the same pattern over and over again: the country reports are disastrous, the recommendations are not implemented, and the fiscal rules are ignored. if we are starting in a more difficult economic period, and, as has been indicated since yesterday, with an unregulated brexit which is costing us economic performance once again, then we do indeed have a problem. if the commission is not prepared to implement this, consideration should also be given to entrusting other institutions with the task.
the time is running out, and i shall be able to give the floor to only one person per group. spontaneous speech
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, wednesday 13 march 2019. (the sitting was suspended for a few minutes.)
rapporteur. – madam president, i rise in accordance with rule 59 and would like to ask the chamber to refer the matter back to committee in order to start interinstitutional negotiations.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i just wanted to give you a quick rundown of what this is all about. we are voting now that the disposal of ship's waste in european ports will be improved immediately. the fact is that we are still allowed to throw some waste into the sea. it's forbidden from now on. there's a 100 percent garbage collection fee that you pay with the port fees, so there's actually no incentive to throw anything overboard. this is a huge improvement for our oceans, and at the same time, it's also a way for the fishing boats that, not because they want to, but because it floats around in the ocean, to, for example, catch plastic that they can deliver to ports without having to pay for it, and maybe even get compensated for it. i am thinking of the ports, and i would like to thank all those who have worked on this, and i look forward to a broad consensus.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate you for taking this file from the onset, in july last year, with a strong will and dedication, which helped us reach political agreement on the text you will vote on tomorrow. we have been working intensively over the past years to reduce risks and to strengthen the resilience of the european banking sector. with a prudential backstop regulation, we are addressing one of the major risks to which european banks are still exposed: non-performing loans. non-performing loans had piled up in the banks’ balance sheets in the aftermath of the financial crisis and ensuing economic downturn. as we saw, elevated levels of npls, if not dealt with sufficiently quickly, weighed on banks’ liability and capacity to lend to the real economy. we have certainly made substantial progress in reducing the high levels of npls. however, the ratio remains elevated when compared historically and to other regions, and accelerated gdp growth – a key driver behind the reduction in npls – cannot be taken for granted. preventing the future accumulation of npls is hence essential for preserving financial stability and supporting lending to create jobs and growth. to this end, the prudential backstop will put eu-wide brakes on any excessive future build-up of npls on banks’ balance sheets, without sufficient loss coverage. it will do so by setting a common minimum coverage level for future loans if they become non-performing across member states and banks. it will serve as a necessary complement to existing supervisory tools that can only be applied on a case-by-case basis, depending on the individual circumstances of the bank. the prudential backstop is therefore an important part of the union’s effort to further reduce risks in the banking system, with a view to completing the banking union. however, our work to address npls is not complete yet. as you know, the backstop is part of the package of measures which also aim to improve the conditions for banks to deal with npls through more efficient enforcement mechanisms, as well as efficient competitive and transparent secondary markets. i therefore encourage you to swiftly agree on the outstanding proposal on the npl directive, in particular to further develop secondary markets for non-performing loans.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i have been asked to speak in this debate on the so-called austerity policy and its effects on relations between member states. i am certainly not alone in feeling that the financial crisis and its consequences have inflicted considerable wounds on the unity of europe, and that these wounds are not yet fully healed. in this context, the financial system has suffered considerably, with major consequences for the lives of citizens. this is how the central role of financial institutions in the smooth running of the economy of society as a whole was confirmed. financial intermediation plays a key role. after all, that is the purpose of the proper functioning of our financial system: to enable all europeans to benefit fully from the economic potential of our companies. it should therefore be stressed that the patients are not only the banks, of course, but also individuals. therefore, it is only by considering the reduction of non-performing exposures as a crucial part of treatment that one can realistically speak of a true cure for all stakeholders. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteurs on having provided a balanced response to the many challenges that have arisen. however, we must not forget that to ensure the success of this part of the treatment, we must also swallow the bitter pill of sound public financial management. however, such a policy does not cause stagnation, as is wrongly claimed, but rather sustainable economic growth. in the end, the so-called austerity policy is not the result of a harsh regime imposed on the states concerned, but the result of an irresponsible spending policy pursued by weak and unwilling governments for many years.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we have a big problem in the eurozone with the huge stock of nonperforming loans. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have a big problem, and now we are debating in this house a solution that does not solve the problem. a measure, a hard fought legislative measure, that does not address the whole problem that we have in the eurozone at all, because all the bad loans that have built up in the financial crisis, that have built up in the euro crisis, that have built up in the sovereign debt crisis, are not covered by this law at all. the law does not apply to non-performing loans at all until the date on which it comes into force. and even the loans that are now going into default in 2019 after the law comes into force will not be affected immediately, but will still be given a three-year period before the first depreciation measures apply. it's not until 2022 that we start to treat nonperforming loans, which don't exist at the moment. and the huge mountain of non-performing loans that threaten us, the banking stability, the financial stability in the eurozone, we are not going to address with this legislation at all. this is a clear example of how often politicians pat themselves on the back and congratulate themselves on solving a problem without explaining why the measure solves the problem in the first place. this is a complete failure of this parliament.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in the financial and sovereign debt crisis, i think we have seen one thing very clearly: the european stability mechanism and its predecessor, the efsf, have proved their worth. he has decided on a non-political basis, on the basis of facts and clear rules. this is much more than can be said of the european commission. the esm and efsf have been instrumental in the success of the programmes in ireland, portugal, cyprus, spain and greece. i think that this is a logical conclusion: we should not question what has been proven to work. we can think of ways of improving the exchange between the european parliament and the esm or a european monetary fund, for example by means of an interinstitutional agreement. but we shouldn't overstep the mark. the funds are ultimately made available by the member states. this means that national budgets are also liable and national parliaments are responsible for control. this is also required by the principle of liability. and this also means that we should reject some of the proposals put forward by our colleagues, such as the majority vote on macroeconomic adjustment programmes or the right of a european finance minister to decide on the allocation of funds at his own discretion. the principle of liability as a guiding principle is central.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european stabilisation mechanism was created by a breach of contract. the european treaties were broken when the non-assistance clause was broken, and the european stabilisation mechanism (esm) was born. today we are talking about replacing the esm with a european monetary fund, and that would be another breach of the treaty, because the european union has no competence whatsoever to set up a european monetary fund. nowhere in the european treaties does it have the power to set up a monetary fund. this is yet another example of the eu trying to take on one competence after another, and the experience we have had with this is unfortunately always a bad one. when the eu was given the responsibility for monetary policy, it led to a major euro crisis. when the eu was given responsibility for asylum and refugee policy, it created a refugee crisis. what justification do we have for now to give the eu responsibility for macroeconomic stabilisation and financial stability? it is illegal, it is against the treaties, and there is no reason at all why we should do it. the member states are also responsible under the european treaties.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the commission's proposal to incorporate the european stability mechanism into eu law is a good one, because only in this way can democratic control by the european parliament be guaranteed. the council should not put this important matter off any longer. it is clear that the current governance structure of the euro area needs to be further developed and that a euro area budget with a stabilisation function is needed to cushion asymmetric shocks. a euro area budget must be part of the general budget of the european union, there must be no duplication or subsidiary structures. it is therefore clear that a sound euro-area budget can only be achieved if the multiannual financial framework provides for adequate resources. the ideological fixation of some heads of government on 1% of european gross national income in the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework is therefore wrong. if you want the eu to deliver, you must also give it the means to do so. it must not be taboo to finance the eu budget with genuine own resources. it would be economically sensible and politically intelligent to use the proceeds of, for example, a european coordinated financial transaction tax or a digital tax to finance the euro area budget.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i have been listening carefully to your exchange of views and it’s another example of the vitality of the discussions on the economic and monetary union (emu) deepening. we can only support such reflections about the future completion of the architecture of the emu. the work is far from finished. we believe that our european monetary fund proposal is a step in the right direction, and let me reiterate why this is the case. first, an integration of the european stability mechanism (esm) in the union’s legal framework would bring the benefit of a better articulation of financial stability support to member states in crisis, with a framework of economic policy coordination and supervision of the financial sector. the commission, council and ecb play a key role in that regard. it would also allow for the esm’s accountability to be enhanced at the european level, next to the national level, and increase its democratic legitimacy. clearly, the esm actions not only concern individual member states in receipt of assistance but the euro area as a whole. moreover, it would allow for an increase in transparency and a judicial review of its actions, as is the case for union institutions. let me also emphasise that the integration of the esm in the union framework would also be an acknowledgment of the importance the esm has gained since its creation. let me conclude by saying that, regardless of how the esm will work in the short to medium term, it is clear that the member states and the esm must respect existing tasks and roles set out in the eu treaties, without this affecting the balance of competences between the union and its member states.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we are a europe of freedom and values, we are a europe of fair competition, and we are a european union that is strong when it stands together. american tariffs on european cars, chinese cheap imports of steel and aluminum. if the union stands together, trump and co will not be moving against our industry. of course, this will only work if the foundations are right, namely trade agreements between the european union and all parts of the world. we now have such a basis with the new regulation 868 to ensure competition in air transport, a sector for which the wto rules do not yet apply. what's the matter? in other parts of the world, airlines are subsidized by governments, sometimes to a degree that distorts competition. global market shares have already shifted to the detriment of eu airlines, despite efficiency gains and structural changes in airlines. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the airlines are not discriminated against, and that the airlines are not discriminated against in the same way. the 868 regulation allows for investigations to be initiated even if there is a threat of damage or discrimination has only been announced but not yet occurred. the fact that the commission can act even in the face of a threat of damage is a deterrent. the fact that the directorate-general for transit is now taking action when damage is imminent, not only when damage is to be proved, is a credit to the european parliament. we have been able to achieve this in the trilogue negotiations. and that's when the 868 regulation gets its teeth. it is now a real deterrent, which, if it works well, we will never have to use. the 868 regulation is therefore also a diplomatic instrument for europe and its member states, which cannot defend themselves against discrimination. but if we do it together with the eu-28, then we have the global influence in air transport as well. the answer to "america first", "gulf airlines first" or "china first" is "europe together". i thank the commission for the good report. thank you to the council for the difficult but fair negotiations. and thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your help. we now have a strong building block for a strong and defendable europe, another strong building block for a defendable european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the foundations of our prosperity in the eu are fair competition and social equality. this is also true of international aviation. so we as legislators must protect our companies and workers from unfair practices with clear rules to ensure long-term, skilled jobs throughout europe. unfortunately, we are living in an era of trade conflicts and only with adequate deterrent instruments can we ensure fair rules for europe in global competition. a revision of regulation no 868/2004 was therefore urgently needed. the council's approach, however, is somewhat bizarre. it was simply inconceivable to me that a group of states would actively oppose such a trade defence instrument and would want to hand out unfair subsidies to eu airlines just to cling to the ideological paradigm of the so-called free market. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the safety of aircraft. we now have an effective instrument to protect ourselves against harmful subsidies from third countries. this is not protectionism to the detriment of passengers or connectivity, because our airlines need not fear fair competition. we have reached a broad and fair compromise on the regulation across the political groups, and we owe this largely to our rapporteur, mr markus pieper, and his team. i would also like to thank all the other contributors for their constructive cooperation.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i can see from your speeches that you broadly agree with what has been drawn up in the draft regulation by you, your rapporteurs, mr pieper in the lead, the council and the commission. some of the reports mentioned problems that were true. this regulation cannot solve all the problems, but it is a great step forward towards fair competition, in the interests of airlines based in the eu, in the interests of those who wish to participate in this competition from outside but who should respect the same rules, and ultimately in the interests of passengers, namely citizens, consumers, who can choose and book favourable prices for good service from amongst different competitors on this basis. a clear vote by parliament will bring the process to a conclusion. there is still a lot of work to be done by my colleague mrs bulc, by the commission and by you in the area of completing the aviation market of tomorrow. but i repeat that with today's draft regulation we are taking a big step in the right direction. thank you for your support.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. dear günther oettinger, whether energy or household, today transport is always convincing. i thank the colleagues for the really encouraging contributions and also for the practical support. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs of the other groups, all the members of the negotiating team and, of course, our assistants. i am pleased that all eu countries are clearly on the same page and that we have also succeeded in allaying the fears of some smaller countries. this was about ensuring accessibility, accessibility in conflict situations. but we have found a solution in the regulation. i am also glad that it was parliament which gave the regulation a stronger impact. the fact that the union can now intervene in the event of imminent damage is precisely the difference with the old regulation (ec) no 868/2004, which has no effect here. ladies and gentlemen, all in all, tomorrow will be a good day for european airlines and a good day for a defence-ready europe. if we stand together in europe, in the union, we can stand up to the selfishness of corporations and nations.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking my shadow rapporteurs, who have worked with me to produce good guidelines and, in particular, to set priorities for 2020. it is not an easy year, because on the one hand it is the year of the transition to the multiannual financial framework and we must try to make a sensible transition. secondly, it is not an easy year because we are going from one disaster to the next in the brexit votes and we do not know what will happen to us in the end, and thirdly because we are facing major challenges - on the one hand, the promotion of competitiveness, jobs and social prosperity within the european union, then challenges in the field of development aid and in the field of migration flows and people who are suffering greatly in other countries, and thirdly, of course, questions of security, in other words internal and external security, and questions relating to the fact that we want to protect our citizens as best as possible. i simply ask you, mr commissioner, to give effect to our wishes, particularly in the field of erasmus and youth, because we are firmly convinced that only if young people have secure and good jobs, if we have an industry and an economy capable of offering competitive jobs, and if we want to invest in these future technologies, so to speak, and if we want to train young people well, but also enable them to get to know other countries as part of their training, to get to know european neighbours, to have contact with them, then we must also promote these programmes in particular. we also have programmes where the success rate in the area of horizon europe is quite low, and i repeat it - i think i repeat myself every year, and i'm getting a little tired of repeating it - because i actually wish that programmes like cosme, programmes like future and emerging technologies, where we have rejection rates of up to 97% in some cases - not because the programmes are bad, not because the projects are bad, but because we don't get enough money from the member states - and i also wish that young people in the european union have jobs with a future, jobs where they find social security, jobs with a future, and that companies are able to encourage and support investment in this area. i think that is our core mission, to fulfil these two tasks, to promote young people so that they are well qualified on the one hand, and that is in a way that is sustainable, and on the other hand to support jobs and to support innovation in such a way that sustainable jobs can be created in our european union, competitive with other countries on the planet. i hope that this year - and i say this quite openly - we will meet member states who have not spoken to us again for the last three days. the council is not here today, but i will say this on the record, because it would be useful if we did not discuss the main issues at 3 o'clock in the morning, but could perhaps agree on the main issues before then, even if it is not until the next parliamentary term. i would nevertheless like the council to deal with this budget as soon as possible and i would be very pleased if the commission would take our priorities into account.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission is currently preparing our draft budget for next year, which we intend to present to you in a few weeks' time. the position of parliament, including that of the council, is there to do that, and we will then build our proposal on that. in this respect, i take seriously parliament's expectation that we will include the consequences of brexit in the commission's draft budget. we'll know more in the next few days, maybe tomorrow. and rest assured, the 2020 draft will be based on whether the friends from the kingdom are willing to participate in the 2020 budget with all rights and obligations, or whether a no-deal brexit will entail the conclusion that next year there will be no payments from london, but also no participation in programmes. our legal system is independent of that. we believe that the budgetary framework is binding on all 28 member states until the end of 2020, that it was adopted unanimously in 2013, and that all legal options should therefore be used to achieve obligations and rights by the end of 2020. however, in accordance with the precautionary principle, we may then present a draft budget in late spring, which will be drawn up without the british and without their contributions and withdrawals. that means that we would be 12 billion euros short, and we as the commission must close that gap with our proposal. i shall not go into the development of the 2019 budget execution at this time. but it may be that in a few days we will have to submit to this house an amendment, a kind of supplementary budget for the current financial year, to cover, for example, a deficit of six billion euros, or twelve billion next year, or six billion this year. and you know as well as i do that the only level in europe that has no right to take on debt is the european level. the member states have the right and the possibility to borrow, the regions as well as the municipalities. we have an absolute obligation at european level to finance our tasks and expenditure every day with revenue, and the way to the bank is and remains blocked. i would like to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets, but that it is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i shall come back to it as soon as we have some clarity from london to this house and the council. the commission has always proposed that if there is a brexit gap in the budgetary framework for the next decade, the formula is to make up 50% of the brexit gap by cuts and 50% by slightly higher payments. if the formula seems to be comprehensible, fair and convincing, then it can also be the formula for 2019 and 2020. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mrs ní riada criticized me for having been on the phone for a short time. in fact, i could hardly believe the result in the house of commons, so i asked around. i mean, i listened to at least two-thirds of her speech, she listens to zero percent of mine. the commission has not earned respect. but it is clear that democracy is only credible when you criticize and accept the answers in the presence of others, and vice versa. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has also proposed a clear formula for our citizens: every european citizen who earns 100 euros by his own labour, by his own labour or by investing his own money, will receive 50 euros of that 100 euros in taxes, fees and contributions. this is the european state share, on average 50 per cent. and of those 50 euros, one euro goes to the european budget, 49 remain in london, paris, berlin, rome, glasgow, stuttgart or with social security systems. one in 50 is europe, 49 are the member states, the regions, the municipalities, the social security systems. that is why i believe that europe should be worth at least one euro out of 50 to us, especially if europe can finance and realise added value with it. and the added value is evident in erasmus+, for the benefit of a young generation who is experiencing and learning about europe at the right time, in large research projects where no member state and no university, not even the best, not even cambridge and oxford, can compete against google and silicon valley in general and against the chinese alone. i hope that our friends in the united kingdom will continue to cooperate with europe in the field of research. this is what researchers in oxford, cambridge and london want, so that great britain does not become little england in the field of research, despite its excellence. the key task of european programmes, of every euro we invest in europe, is to add value, and i am convinced that this is what parliament's expectations and the commission's proposal, which we will be presenting in the spring, will be about. i think it is very important that mr olbrycht's idea that 2020 is the last budget of the current budgetary framework, but also a bridge budget to the next budgetary framework. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i thank you for your speeches and i thank you for the coordination of mrs hohlmeier. we will consider very carefully what you decide, and we will also largely base it on our own, and then we will come back with our proposal in late spring, which will then hopefully include all the not too dramatic, if not too dramatic, consequences of brexit, as it might then happen. i hope that as many of the budget experts in this parliament as possible will be in the next one. and i can thank those who will not return for many good conversations. i'll take congressman tarand, for example, if he doesn't come back. i think his collaborative and fair manner across all party lines was decisive. thank you very much.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank you very much for this very intensive and good discussion. on brexit, i must honestly admit that i was appalled by the result of 312 votes to 308. because it was about whether or not you wanted to produce a completely disorderly chaos. and i feel that among friends who have worked together for many years and fought for common goals, but it's almost spectacular to me and almost a disrespect of friends. nevertheless, the four votes were a majority. i hope that some common sense will be shown, because britain is not only interested in horizon europe. the united kingdom is interested in cooperation, particularly in security matters, and more recently, the united kingdom is interested in many kinds of cooperation. suddenly, when things are lost, you realize how important they are. i hope that the forces of reason will be right and that we will still have a chance to develop an orderly cooperation. i would like to say a few words about what has come from the shadow rapporteurs. i believe that our main task is to stand together in a real way in the council and to support the commission if we are to secure the necessary funds for our important areas of priority. i understand that the greens have an attitude of 'anti-defence policy' which is almost a pavlovian reflex, but to claim that all the expenditure in europe is doubled and tripled compared to that of the member states is exactly the wrong intention being expressed outwardly here. we intend to exploit synergies and not to double, triple or quadruple everything, but to implement jointly projects for which otherwise all of us would have to carry out research individually, with individual calls for tenders each country would have to spend more money on itself than if we also jointly implemented corresponding research and projects together. i also hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we will have the courage to stand together in the key areas, in a time that is sometimes difficult for europe, and not allow ourselves to be divided, because if we stand together as a parliament with the commission in front of the member states and defend our position, then we have a chance to be able to achieve a great deal and perhaps also to awaken some people to the fact that we should not only count on each other in static figures, but also to actually see and use the added value of the expenditure we can generate together.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. the situation of children of binational couples whose relationship has failed is complicated by the fact that different traditions, cultures and very different legal systems are brought into play. it is therefore good that we have brought about an improvement in the law in this area. i am pleased that a number of the proposals i made in my final report as the european parliament's mediator on child abduction have actually been incorporated into this legislation because they were also drawn from the experience of dealing with the actual problems. it is therefore good that crossborder parental care and child abduction procedures are shortened, that clearer time limits have been set, that fewer legal remedies are needed, that more legal certainty is introduced into these procedures. that is a very good thing, and i very much welcome that. that is one of the reasons why we social democrats said: yes, we are in favour of a faster procedure, that we have accepted a fast procedure, because we want these facilities to be made available to the citizens as quickly as possible. and i was also pleased that in this case the council has also gone much further than in previous times, when it was still very, very reluctant in the way in which we could introduce improvements. however, there are a few points which still need to be worked out and which are not yet satisfactory. why is this only for married couples, why not for registered couples? why is there this discrimination against, for example, lgbtis, who are not taken into account? so that means that we are still being given this very old-fashioned social life, but it no longer corresponds to the reality of life. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the use of the european parliament's right to vote and to stand as a candidate for the european parliament.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr fjellner, this is not about cowardly trade, it is about fair and ethical trade. and i think your report on the aps is painting a rather positive picture. five years ago, the last major reform of the gsp system removed from the preference list all countries which had reached middle income levels according to the world bank, despite strong criticism from my group and civil society. today, only eight countries benefit from gsp+. the flagship of our preferential system is therefore hardly used. this is not how we make the world a better place. we must replace the criterion of 'poverty' with the criterion of 'respect for human rights' for the granting of trade preferences. the commission must show that it will withdraw the tariff concessions even if human rights are being violated. so, commissioner, act now, including in the cases of cambodia and myanmar. start the process on the philippines. the year 2022 is the expiry date of the current aps regulation. this means that reform is at the top of the list of the most important tasks in the field of trade for the new parliament and the new commission after the european elections.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it is one of the central lessons of the collapse of real socialist societies 30 years ago that social and political human rights are inextricably linked. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union. this is true everywhere, because democracy and the possibility for people to participate and participate in the processes of social development must be possible everywhere. it is therefore regrettable that the situation of human rights and civil liberties in kazakhstan has deteriorated in recent years, especially since the use of anti-extremism legislation to persecute political opponents. the recent expressions of public discontent - we have many reports of this - show the willingness and the need of citizens to participate in a more democratic way in their society. that is why the politically motivated cases of persecution must be brought to an end quickly.
a writer. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. after the collapse of the soviet union, kazakhstan became an independent state. with this development, the citizens of the country have attached the hope that this country would finally develop into a democratic country after many years of authoritarian rule - a country where freedoms and fundamental rights are valid, where there is free speech, where the rule of law and the rules of the market economy apply, and where all citizens can live in safety and freedom and can build wealth. unfortunately, that hope has not been realized. the eu is kazakhstan's largest trading partner and in the partnership and cooperation agreement of december 2015, the eu once again clearly underlined the importance of respect for and observance of human rights, fundamental democratic rights and the rule of law for eu-kazakhstan cooperation. unfortunately, more than three years after that agreement, we are still seeing no improvement, on the contrary, the situation has in some cases got worse. innocent people are imprisoned, tortured, free speech is denied, and political opponents are persecuted. that is why i am glad that members of this house have come together across party lines on this resolution to urge the government to do something.
a writer. the commission is not i met nasrin sotudeh in tehran in 2013 after her release, along with jafar panahi both sakharov prize winners in 2012. that's when she was released. now she's back in jail since june 2018, like so many others. 38 years in prison, 148 lashes this is not only an archaic sentence, but a huge scandal and basically an attack on our personal interests and on people like nasrin sotudeh who are among us, who are fighting for the rights of freedom. that's why the first thing we demand is the release of nasrin sotudeh, but not only her, but also environmental activists, people who have taken to the streets for social issues, people who are behind bars for ethnic or religious reasons, or journalists and bloggers. they have to get out of prison! we must ask ourselves this question again and again and we must not let up. and now i 'll tell you something else . in this situation, where human rights violations are escalating again, to practically suspend an eu interparliamentary delegation with iran - because the iran delegation has not met since the end of 2018 - i think it is quite scandalous and also shameful for our house.
i have two announcements to make first. we are pleased to welcome a delegation from the parliament of canada, chaired by mr scott simms. the delegation is in strasbourg to take part in the 40th meeting of the european union-canada parliamentary cooperation committee. relations between the european union and canada have been substantially strengthened in recent years, thanks to the conclusion of the strategic partnership agreement and the comprehensive economic and trade agreement, and prime minister trudeau's 2017 plenary address. these landmark agreements not only reflect the shared values of canada and the european union, but have also led to cooperation in a wide range of fields and to numerous joint initiatives to promote multilateral cooperation, peace, democracy and the rule of law. your presence in this house also symbolises the deepening of interparliamentary relations between our parliaments, which was already expressed in a joint declaration of 2017. it is therefore a great honour to welcome you to our parliament. i hope you had a successful meeting and i wish you all the best for your future stay. (applause from the centre) before we go to the vote, i would also like to welcome on behalf of all of us the delegation of ukrainian members who have come to take part in the ninth meeting of the eu-ukraine parliamentary association committee. this is also the last meeting of this parliamentary term. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter. (applause from the centre) we have done this both to support the reform process in line with the aspirations of the people in maidan square and to defend your territorial integrity and sovereignty. our support was recently expressed by the award of the 2018 sakharov prize to oleg sentzov. we are very pleased to have you here with us today and hope you had a very successful session! welcome back to the club. (applause from the centre) i am not going to go into detail. i have already said that i will only take oral questions which are really about the rules of procedure, before the vote. i shall therefore ask everyone to state the rules of procedure. you can rest assured that i have great sympathy for all your concerns - or at least most of them - but that it has nothing to do with this. i will maintain that principle. (applause from the centre and the right) i would like to make an exception, however, because there was no conference of presidents today. i therefore want to give mr lambert the opportunity to put forward something that he wanted to put forward today in the conference of presidents. i shall not allow any other speeches which do not concern the rules of procedure.
you will understand that we are not discussing this. mrs zimmer has also spoken on my statement that there was no meeting of the conference of presidents today.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. unfortunately, it was decided yesterday that the conference of presidents will be cancelled today. i was informed yesterday afternoon of this radio interview, which my colleague mr lamberts has already mentioned, and i would certainly have mentioned it this morning at a conference of presidents. i have therefore made a statement and a press release on behalf of my group this morning, saying that we as a group are calling for the resignation of the president of the european parliament, because it is not possible (applause) that at the head of this democratically elected parliament, which has a very specific mission, namely to prevent hatred, fascism and anti-semitism from ever again dominating the atmosphere in relations between our countries, there is a man who trivializes the time of mussolini, who pretends to be a mussolini who only became a fascist at a certain point in time. i would remind you that there are people in this parliament whose parents - fathers, mothers - were imprisoned during the first year of mussolini's rule. the fact that we in this parliament repeatedly refer to spinelli and others who, with the ventotene manifesto, laid the foundations for the creation of the european union and for the treaty of rome ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mrs. zimmer, you no longer have the floor. (mumbling in the hall. ) mrs. zimmer, i'm going to have to ask you to come to order. the group chairmen are elected because they have special skills. this also means that you can stick to a certain speaking time. they spoke for almost two minutes. i now turn to the question of the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens.
the epp group will now be represented by mr gonzález pons.
mrs. forenza, i'm asking you to leave this place.
mr gonzález pons, you do not have the floor any more. it has been almost three minutes, and i asked ms zimmer to end. we cannot have a long discussion on that point.
i have allowed this short debate because the conference of presidents has not been held today. for the rest of you, i'm asking you, mrs. forenza, i'm not taking away your rights, don't worry. but please state the rule of the rules to which you refer. otherwise, i'll take your floor.
mrs forenza, you no longer have the floor. i'll take it from you. your microphone is off, and the volume won't make it any better. i've made the rules i've altered clear. it is the president's discretion, and i have taken advantage of the fact that the conference of presidents has been cancelled today and that i am therefore giving way. otherwise i shall be speaking only on the rules of procedure and not to continue this short debate we are having. mrs miranda has also spoken on the rules of procedure. but you're the same way.
no, ms miranda, this is exactly what we will not do. it is not a question of respect. you do not have the floor any more. please sit down.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's not a question of respect. i have great respect for all causes. but this is only a matter of procedure. who else would like to speak on the rules of procedure? mr carver, please!
i'm not going to let you down. that was clearly a point of order. i shall, however, allow further comments on the rules of procedure. i'm not going to let you go.
i would like to thank you for your kind words. the question is not one of interpretation of policy but of the rules of procedure. i shall give the floor to mr verhofstadt, who has just come to this debate on the conference of presidents, after i have completed the other parts of the rules of procedure. who else would like to speak on the rules of procedure? i have to say that i am very pleased with the results.
i have to say that i am very pleased with the results. this is not about individual content. i'll take it from you. you have not reported to the rules of procedure. mr viotti, i have to say that i am very pleased.
i am not going to go into that. i won't let that happen either. it is not enough to use article 21 as a sesame-open-mouthed-dick. this is not a point of order. (thunder in the hall) who else would like to speak on the rules of procedure? i am not going to go into that.
- i'm not sure. i will not allow this verbal message either. you don't have the floor, you don't have the microphone. please sit down, or i'll have to call you to order. (thunder in the hall) mrs agea, please take a seat. you don't have the floor. i am not going to go into the details of the procedure, but i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief explanation of his position.
mr verhofstadt, you are right. i have noted your request. the president will of course be informed of everything that happens here. but as with everything that happens here, that knowledge is not made public.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, on behalf of the greens/efa group and with reference to rule 191 of the rules of procedure, i would like to request the postponement of the votes on the following two reports. the fact is that – for many years and again in the latest resolution a few seconds ago – we have been asking for more gender equality in top eu financial posts. but the situation is: on the executive board of the european central bank (ecb) we have one woman and five men; on the general council of the ecb we have one woman and 22 men; on the single resolution board we have one woman and five men. and the same pattern is repeated in the other institutions. therefore, the question is: how long shall women wait for a european parliament which ensures their equal opportunities, rather than waving through one appointment after another? (applause) our conference of presidents has written two letters to the commission and the council, and they have received extremely evasive answers. therefore, it is now time … (the president cut off the speaker)
i have to say that i am very pleased with the results. that was not a point of order. and if that happens again, i'll call you to order.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on rules concerning the welfare of animals in aquaculture by john flack, fabio massimo castaldo, arne gericke, fredrick federley, ivo vajgl, karin kadenbach, pirkko ruohonen-lerner, julie ward, marco zullo, eleonora evi, michèle rivasi, stelios kouloglou, sven giegold, bart staes, keith taylor, michela giuffrida, paul brannen, pavel poc, david martin, stefan eck, sirpa pietikäinen, jacqueline tilly, foster metz, davor škrlec, georgi pirinski, ton picula, jiří pospíšil, tunne kelam, zisław krasnodębski, zma kosławski, isabella monte, anja monte, klaus anzekus, pascal kempner (october 15, 2018 - december 16, 2019), which was also attended by mr.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not although up to 1.7 billion fish are slaughtered in aquaculture farms in the eu each year, there is no sensible legislation to protect these animals. fish are still being slaughtered cruelly without adequate or any anaesthesia. in the minds of most of the callous politicians in this house, in the commission and in the council, they have been and are being seen as a callous and inferior form of life. it seems that all the knowledge of biology has passed by the minds of these ladies and gentlemen without a trace. in my experience, i have little hope that there is any political will to legislate at all. the commission is blind and deaf when it comes to animals. but animal cruelty is a criminal offence in all member states, at least on paper. the commission, which is obviously following the fishing industry's lead, is therefore criminally responsible for the way it has treated this species up to now. i would like to ask you to finally use your brains and your hearts, if you have any, to take the initiative to ensure that fish are at least given minimum standards for their protection.
member of the commission. – mr president, i have listened with great interest to this discussion and i am grateful for your valuable insights. it is clear that the welfare of farm fish presents many challenges and i am thankful we had the opportunity to discuss this issue. so where do we go from here? firstly, we need to develop scientific knowledge to better understand the needs of the different species at various stages of production. secondly, we need to take into account the variety of the production systems in the european union, which range from big industrial farms to small or medium sized companies. thirdly, we need to engage with the industry, ngos and the scientific community, in a constructive dialogue. the goal here is to find sustainable and coherent solutions to the issues facing eu aquaculture today, including those relating to the environment, animal health, the use of antibiotics and animal welfare. i agree wholeheartedly that animal welfare is one issue that has to be integrated into the long-term strategy of the eu aquaculture sector. next year we should have the results of the evaluation of the eu animal welfare strategy. this will outline the starting point of future initiatives on animal welfare, including for farmed fish. let me finish by assuring you that the commission will maintain a high interest in the welfare of fish and will persist in encouraging stakeholders to work together for further improvements.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral reply to the commission on the fundamental rights of persons of african descent by mr claude moraes, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-000022/2019 - b8-0016/2019) - (2018/2899(rsp)).
mr sośnierz, that was not a blue card. we're not going to play this again, mrs. vergiat. but i'll take your complaint under advisement. we'll look into it. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their contributions which the commission will take into account in its discussions. let me reiterate that the commission is committed to strengthen and make better use of all existing tools and measures to tackle discrimination, racism and intolerance, targeting people of african descent and black people in the eu.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next partsession.
i would like to thank all the colleagues who have endured so long, especially the services and, among the services, especially the interpreters. i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
rapporteur. – mr president, i have to say that this is absolutely not the right way to do things, because we have been working now for almost two years on these dossiers, on this mobility package one. we have found proper compromises through and around this parliament, and in order to avoid the miserable situations on the motorways in europe and to have some legal certainty, we have to vote within this term and here in strasbourg this week. we have found a proper solution. i would like to reiterate that once again. there is no need not to vote. it is just a political game by those colleagues who do not want to have the content of these legal issues. therefore, i really urge the house to vote this week for the mobility package one. (applause)
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to have this opportunity, which will probably be my last in this parliament, to take stock of our common fight for fairer taxation. i would first of all like to thank you and pay tribute to the enormous and painstaking work you have done, and to greet the rapporteurs. the tax3 committee met 34 times, carried out five fact-finding missions, heard hundreds of experts and commissioned six studies on specific topics, which were then meticulously analysed. the report we are debating today continues the work of the previous pana committee of inquiry and concludes a twelve-month mandate. i congratulate this committee and this parliament on the very great work they have done. over the last four years, i think we can say that our two institutions have become natural allies in the fight for tax justice. this report sets out a road map for the continuation of this fight with another parliament, perhaps with another commissioner, or at any rate with another commission. i hope it will inspire us all. to open the debate, i would like to comment on the most emblematic recommendations of the report in the field of the fight against tax fraud and evasion and money laundering. i have said it a thousand times here: the international tax system is no longer adapted to the realities of the 21st century. its rules do not allow the mobile and intangible nature of the new economic models to be grasped, and therefore it must be reformed as a matter of urgency. having said that, i regret that no agreement could be reached on the proposed tax on digital services at the ecofin council meeting on 12 march. i think, however, that this work has made good progress and that the support base, which was initially extremely narrow, has in the end become extremely broad. i would add that they have had a merit, already effective, which was to have accelerated the international discussions. it is at this level that the work will now continue and, naturally, the european union and the commission will be involved. these discussions will, as we know, be centred on two main pillars, which will go beyond the digital economy: the revision of the rules for the allocation of profits and taxed duties and the introduction of new minimum taxation rules. in order to have a say in this debate, and this is the union's wish, we must bear in mind that we are not just a group of 27 or, who knows, 28 member states. we represent an integrated market of 500 million consumers with a very high average purchasing power, and this is our strength on the world stage. so the message i want to get across here is that we need to coordinate urgently ahead of the g20 summit. it would be absurd if there were two, three, four or even five proposals coming from the european union, it would weaken us. speaking with one voice will enable the european union to defend its interests better, to make its commitments more effective: simple, investment-friendly taxation, but also, and above all, fair taxation. after having deplored the failure of the digital tax, i am pleased that member states have reached agreement on a european list of 15 jurisdictions considered to be non-cooperative. i would like to see an end to this perpetual self-deprecation which undermines the work of the european union. success, because it is a success, lies in the list, of course, because as such, it is credible. this is the most important list at international level. but the success lies above all in the process, in the method of dialogue used, in the very many reforms it has made possible. dozens of jurisdictions around the world have cooperated with us and have implemented real tax reforms, either to get off the list or to avoid getting on the list. now the situation of countries that do not have a corporate tax or that propose a zero rate is taken into account, both by the european union, but here again we have influenced the international debate, and also by the oecd. i am of course aware of the criticisms about the countries selected and the absence of certain member states in your tax3 report. it is a matter of disagreement between us, on which i sometimes find it difficult to explain myself, or at least to make myself understood. i maintain that there are no tax havens in the european union, in the sense of international standards of good governance. to say otherwise is to undermine the effort we have made together to get, for example, information exchange adopted throughout the european union. there has been progress in transparency. it's not enough to make everything perfect, i'll talk about tax black holes myself. let's say there are still a number of countries and there we are with practices that are too favorable to tax optimization or aggressive tax planning. to combat these aggressive intra-european tax practices, which i reject, which i reject, which i condemn, we have other instruments than a list: european legislation, which we have considerably strengthened, the code of conduct, state aid procedures, the european semester. there is a nuance between us, but in truth there is a very broad agreement. i think it is imperative that we strengthen these instruments and continue to improve our legislation to move towards more justice and tax transparency in the european union. when taxes are not collected, we know very well that it is the most fragile, the most vulnerable, the poorest who are deprived of the public goods they need. and it is the tax compliance that is at stake. if the richest don't pay taxes, then why do you want the poorest to pay them willingly? we can go even further to eliminate harmful tax practices. i am thinking first of all of the 'rulings', the multinationals who abuse it to transfer their profits. to avoid this, we need to ensure that our transparency rules are integrated into the day-to-day work of tax inspectors. administrative cooperation must be strengthened, ensuring that member states devote the necessary resources to it, because, as we see with the recent scandal, the failure of cooperation has been able to create opportunities that have been properly exploited. i am also thinking of tax advisers who play a key role in the development of aggressive tax planning schemes. we have introduced, together, rules that aim to improve transparency on these arrangements with respect to tax administrations from 1 july 2020, which will be accessible to tax administrations in the union, this is a very significant progress. here again, we must be very vigilant about implementation. i am thinking then of the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism. under the leadership of my colleague, véra jourová, important progress has been made, both on the anti-money laundering directive and on the right of access to information for member states. i am thinking, finally, of the fight against vat fraud. we have strengthened the power of national administrations to detect fraud in investigations at an early stage, we have promoted the sharing and exploitation of tax and customs information, but also cooperation between eurofisc, europol and olaf agencies. i do not want to be exhaustive here, your report is enough on its own, but in conclusion i would like to focus on an emblematic recommendation of the report, which is also for me a form of political message for the european elections, for the next parliament, for the next commission, for the council in the future, it is about the gradual transition to qualified majority voting. i not only fully support this approach, but i also support it by proposing the use of the bridge clauses to achieve this. i see three reasons why it is not only necessary but vital to move from unanimity to qualified majority voting in tax matters. firstly, it would enable the european union to react more quickly and more effectively in a field where, as we know, the challenges are now global, where the expectations of europeans are immense and where unanimity is undoubtedly a brake. secondly, qualified majority voting would strengthen the democratic legitimacy of tax decisions taken in the european union. the european parliament - i know you are committed to it - would be a co-legislator of the interests of all europeans because you are their voice, and they would be better represented. finally, the scope of tax policy in europe would be widened. i spoke about public goods: yes, we absolutely must have a tax on energy, on the fight against climate change, on corporate tax. i continue to campaign for the common consolidated corporate tax base, and for that we need a qualified majority vote. we can also pursue broader social objectives. i have spoken about environmental protection, and i am also thinking of financial market regulation. i therefore call on the european parliament, but also on the european political parties that make up it, to take up this proposal, to make the debate live, because this reform is also a way for your institution, not only to strengthen its powers, but to make a voice heard that the member states sometimes find difficult to hear, that of the general european interest. and if tomorrow, in the next european parliament, there is a majority as broad for this proposal as the one that is fighting today for the fight against fraud and tax evasion, then this will be a considerable advance for democracy, for efficiency, and it will change profoundly, and the rules of the game and the game itself.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would like to begin by praising the report. it contains 410 notes and individual items. it is the result of many years of work by many colleagues, in particular the two rapporteurs. first of all, thank you, and it is a continuation of the work in taxe, tax2 and the committee of inquiry. secondly, the issue of tax justice, fair tax competition, money laundering and tax evasion must remain on the agenda of parliament. it's not enough that we've been talking about this for a whole term, and it's all gone to shit. that is why it is right. and, mr moscovici, you have presented a great deal in the last five years, and i commend you for that. but your last suggestion that parliament has this in hand, perhaps on the question of how we overcome unanimity: as long as the member states can block and all possible states, including my social democratic finance minister has been against the corporate tax base and against the digital tax , we will not make any progress. that is why appeals are not sufficient. we also need to identify tax havens - and i would like to disagree with you on this - within the eu. i 'll just name two: this is luxembourg, where the income from the fund is not taxed, this is the netherlands, where the licences are not taxed. if we are not honest about this, we cannot be the benchmark for the world.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have been working here in four different special committees and committees of inquiry over the last five years on tax crimes and also money laundering. as a result, more progress has been made in the fight against money laundering and financial crime in the european union in the last five years than in the previous twenty. but important proposals from the european commission are now blocked in the council of member states. i am deeply disturbed that the grand coalition in germany is also helping to block a european digital tax and a mandatory tax transparency on the tax payments of large companies in the council of the member states. it is time that this blockade against tax justice finally ends, and that must be a theme in this election campaign. we cannot talk about tax justice here in the european parliament and then block these proposals in the same party families of christian democrats, social democrats and liberals in the council of member states. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i was also a member of the three taxe committees and the panama papers committee, and i am pleased with the work done by the whistleblowers and especially the journalists, who have worked with tremendous care. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this is not so much a question of party romantics as it is a question of why they did not say: we are going to make sure that we finally change the possibility that all this is decided in the member states, and this must take place at european level.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to say first of all that i am very sorry that you will soon no longer be a member of parliament. i have always considered you to be a reliable bank for european cooperation. i want to say this in person first. secondly, why are the member states not doing this? there are small states which have an economic interest in having profits made elsewhere taxed in their own country, and taxed at a low rate. this is detrimental to the internal market as a whole and is unacceptable. secondly, there is a certain amount of ideology involved. when we started working here, many people sang the song of the tax competition ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the tax scandals of recent years have shown how unbridled imagination and, in some cases, criminal energy are used by corporations, banks and wealthy people to evade taxes, avoid them and even openly cheat on them. this means that european countries are losing hundreds of billions of euros a year - as has already been mentioned - which are not spent on education, health or public services. the european people want tax justice, and to achieve this we urgently need a parliament with the appropriate democratic tools and instruments to fight for this very tax justice. and that is why we need a permanent subcommittee in this house to deal with tax evasion and financial crime. but above all, it needs the political will for minimum corporate taxes, strong whistleblower protection and comprehensive public country-specific reporting to effectively prevent tax evasion. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. my dear colleague! of course, tax justice is a concept that you and i have different definitions of. but i am concerned first of all that companies cannot continue to reduce taxes at the expense of the general public in europe. i am concerned that effective minimum tax rates should finally be introduced in europe to prevent the further erosion of public services. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner moscovici, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. for five years now i have been the leader of the socialist group in the special committees of inquiry on taxe, tax2 and tax3 and in the committee of inquiry into the panama papers in this house. it was a good time. we have made further progress in many areas of regulation, and we have done so in particular because we have had a congenial partner in the european commission, commissioner moscovici, who has joined us here in pushing for greater tax justice in europe, for a genuine fight against money laundering. but if we are to plan our own work for the future, it is important that we reinforce the call for permanent structures here in the house, which is already contained in the report of the tax3 committee. my group has tabled an amendment to that effect. it must be clear that we are working together across the board because we all have different ways of looking at things. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. i would ask everyone to ... (the president will take the floor).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the loss of the rule of law, democracy and respect for fundamental rights in some eu member states is truly worrying. this is a blow to the heart of europe. europe has never been just a story of maximising the interests of its members, but has always been a community of values. and that is why it is so crucial that all member states adhere to these principles. it is therefore right that we finally have a strong rule of law mechanism, publicly available in all member states, by an independent panel of experts, to examine whether the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights are being respected. and if countries don't do this systematically, then there must be consequences. in particular, the following should apply under the next multiannual financial framework: if you want to spend european subsidies, then, if you have serious breaches of the rule of law, you can no longer take these decisions yourself, but they belong to the european institutions.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would first like to express my gratitude to the rapporteur, ms ulvskog, to the shadow rapporteurs and to the members of all six committees of this house that have adopted opinions on the commission’s proposal. as you are aware, the commission decided last year to propose the discontinuation of the seasonal time change. this was done in response to calls from this parliament, from several member states and from many citizens that have been writing to me and to other commissioners during our mandate. available evidence suggested that the justification for the time change arrangement currently applicable has become irrelevant. it is equally clear that a discontinuation would help to make people’s lives easier and deal with some health issues that have been related to the current system. the results of the commission’s public consultation are very straightforward: 4.6 million europeans responded, of which 84% supported the abolishment of the clock change. in this context, we very much appreciate the support given by the rapporteur and the committee on transport and tourism (tran) for stopping the changing of clocks in the eu twice a year. as you know, the commission has been deliberately very ambitious and proposed to see the last seasonal time change already this year. however, given that the council has not yet established its own position, we recognise that it becomes impossible to meet such a deadline. i therefore take good note of your report’s position in favour of stopping seasonal time changes in 2021. allow me to comment further on some of the amendments tabled, which we see as more challenging. first, you have proposed to introduce a new coordination network involving member states and the commission to discuss jointly and assess member states’ decisions on standard time and their impact on the internal market, and if the commission considers that the choice of a member state would significantly affect the proper functioning of the internal market, the member state in question would have the obligation to defend its choice and explain how it will address its negative impact. the commission sees very well the intention behind such amendments and shares the view that an adequate coordination between member states is necessary. however, the choice of standard time is a member state prerogative. there is no change here. the decision on standard time has always been taken at national level. the commission cannot support new legal provisions in the directive that would not be in line with this division of responsibilities between the eu and member states and would not respect the principle of subsidiarity. this being said, i would like to reassure you that i know from my discussions with member states so far that all of them see as clearly as we do the need for a coordinated approach. i am confident that they will choose their respective standard time in a responsible and coordinated manner. no one wants to see a patchwork of time zones within eu. secondly, the commission has legal concerns with the proposed empowerment to postpone the application of the new arrangements via a delegated act. such an empowerment should in principle only relate to non—essential elements, while the entry into force is clearly an essential element of the proposal. to conclude, let me thank you once more for all your constructive work. i now look forward to the debate and to your vote. indeed, having the european parliament adopting its position before the parliamentary recess will sent a very clear and strong message to council that this house is ready to take this proposal forward towards a successful outcome.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission has already done so. there are certainly more important issues at the moment in the european union than the abolition of the time change. nevertheless, in an online petition, more than four million people in europe have spoken out in favour of abolishing the time change. the commission delivered very quickly. i was the author of the opinion of the committee on industry on this, and we too delivered very quickly from our committee. the majority in the committee on industry has also clearly expressed its support for abolishing the clock in europe. i find it regrettable that the abolition is not coming soon, but probably not until 2021. but there are also good reasons for this from an industrial point of view, for example in the aviation sector, where time slots are often negotiated several years in advance - it is not possible to react quickly - or even with gas network operators. but now it is not up to the commission, it is not up to parliament - we will very likely vote in favour of this - but it will be up to the member states. the member states must now ensure that we avoid a patchwork at european level. whether they can do that is in doubt. i therefore call on the member states to react quickly and to respond to the will of the citizens, the commission and the european parliament.
the committee on agriculture adopted an opinion on the proposal. the commission is not as the author of the opinion of the committee on agriculture, i am particularly concerned about the following points: we currently have three time zones in europe, and scientific studies show that the annual change in time has an impact on the biorhythms and health of citizens and animals. the problems of the twice-yearly change of time are well known to families with small children and dairy farmers. in the agri committee we decided to introduce standard time from 2020. however, the following must be taken into account in the abolition: the single market must continue to work. to this end, coordination between member states is of crucial importance. and what is absolutely necessary to prevent is a patchwork of time zones in the different member states. the member states should decide together: do we want standard time or summertime throughout the eu? so let's get this clockwork over with as much coordination time as we can!
the commission has already done so. reducing bureaucracy means: we should cut ourselves off from what is of no use and does not do us any good. the time has come to put an end to the nonsense of twice-yearly time changes. let us put an end to the health disadvantages for some 20% of the european population, the economic disadvantages for a large number of companies, the negative effects on road safety and the disturbances in the biorhythms of animals! now colleagues have also recognized that the time change must be abolished, who were previously against it. thank you. i've been working on this for a decade. the abolition of the eu summertime directive is far from being the same as the abolition of summertime. in the interests of subsidiarity, member states should decide whether they wish to maintain summer-time or standard time permanently. in order to avoid any disadvantages for the internal market, i support the proposed coordination mechanism. three time zones in the eu should be enough to compensate for the disadvantages faced by the peripheral countries.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. when they introduced the time change, they wanted to save energy. in fact, you save energy at night, but in the morning you have to use more for heating and light. at the same time, they wanted to prevent accidents. there are now fewer accidents in the evening, but more in the morning, and that includes schoolchildren. speaking of children, it has been observed that after the time change, the performance, the concentration of children in school decreases. we don't want that either. chronobiologists were awarded the nobel prize because they found that it can be a big problem for human health, especially for the elderly and the sick, when this time change is there, even for children. if this is all established, why are we in the eu not prepared to follow it? russia and china realized it was useless and they canceled the time change. i think we should be that smart. and as far as the internal market is concerned, when the time change was introduced, there was an agreement on a time. switzerland even joined in, even though the population didn't want it. but they said we need the single market, we want trade - i know switzerland is not part of the eu - and they agreed. i am sure that we can if we decide to do so now. that is why i ask you to vote in favour.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. why simple, when it can be complicated! that is how i would describe the behaviour of the council and of some of the speakers in this house. why simple, when it can be complicated! the vast majority of people have not only said in an online consultation of the european commission - and why are we doing a consultation if we don't care what people say, the commission takes that seriously anyway - but also in representative polls that they don't want to do it. and as a doctor, i'm telling you, there are health problems. how big they are, that's still to be investigated. but even if they are only subjective, why should we ignore them, especially since, as has been said many times, there is no advantage to this time change? and that's why we have to abolish them. the things that are being put forward are not really convincing arguments against the proposal of the committee on transport. because theoretically, we can have different time zones in europe and a patchwork of time zones, and that is possible under current law. every day, every state can decide to go to a different time zone. the present system does not prevent this. we're going to do even better by introducing this coordination mechanism. so please, a large majority tomorrow for the proposal from the committee on transport and then let the council finally get to work.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. no one will deny that a minority have temporary health problems. but i believe this: the time change has worked out well. man needs the sun, he needs sunlight. and if a doctor here says the complaints are so great, then he has completely neglected this aspect. the online poll was not representative at all: less than one percent. four million replies came from germany. there, too, it was below five percent. i am looking around, and i see that less than 2% of the members of parliament are present at this debate. what is the mood behind this? i do not think that is justified. the proposal is not developed, there is no impact assessment. the quick-fire approach is detrimental to the internal market and should be thrown into the wastebasket. that is why i say i shall vote against it. and i'm already looking forward to march 31, 2019, when daylight saving time comes.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i just have one quick question: what is the basis of this esteemed colleague's claim that strokes are increasing? i didn't read that. the american studies prove the opposite.
in writing. i support the abolition of the time change. the result of the public consultation was clear: 84% of the 4.6 million people who took part in the consultation voted in favour of abolishing the half-yearly change of time which has been taking place since the 1970s. i hope that after today's vote, the clockwork will be a thing of the past as soon as possible. the main thing now is to ensure that the internal market continues to function properly. and i call on the member states to ensure that there are no two-hour time differences between neighbouring countries.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. today i have the honour of representing my colleague jerzy buzek, our rapporteur on electricity market design. the actual rapporteur of the parliament, mr kariņš, has successfully concluded the negotiations with the council and the commission, but is now prime minister of latvia and therefore logically cannot be here today. but i would like to take this opportunity to thank him very sincerely for his commitment, for his negotiating skills and for the very good cooperation he has shown. the european commission published its proposals for the clean energy package in november 2016. the two dossiers on the new electricity market design are the most extensive, if not the most far-reaching, of the whole package. what exactly is this about? the regulation introduces new rules for the european electricity market. the electricity market has changed enormously in recent years. the roles of the individual market players, from producer to consumer, have also changed enormously. this is why it was necessary to redesign the european electricity market and make it fit for the energy transition. in the electricity market of the future, electricity will have to be increasingly decentralised, investment will have to be made in sustainable energy sources and the still national electricity markets will have to cooperate much more closely at regional level. the consumer will play a central role in the future electricity market. that is what the directive is focusing on. electricity customers will now be able to participate actively. the directive also aims to strengthen consumer protection. to give a very concrete example: electricity customers will in future receive invoices which they will then understand immediately. you all know this: until you get to the relevant information on the electricity bill, you have to flip through a few pages and then probably look in the footnotes. from now on, the most important information will appear on the first page in a bundle. in addition, certified internet sites will be available in all member states, so that every european can compare the different electricity tariffs and then choose the one that suits him. the european parliament has attached particular importance to ensuring that the most vulnerable electricity customers are not left behind. energy poverty is also a reality in the eu today, and this is precisely why member states are now obliged to monitor very closely whether their national measures are sufficient to support people affected by energy poverty. i would like to thank in particular my colleagues from the european commission, whose expertise has also made a decisive contribution to the successful conclusion of this dossier. i would also like to thank you, commissioner arias cañete, for the very constructive exchange which you have always had, even in the midst of really difficult negotiations. the austrian presidency has also made a huge contribution to the fact that we can finally vote on this report tomorrow. we only needed six trilogies in all. well, the last time we did it, we negotiated for 17 hours, and then in the last trilogy, we negotiated for 16 hours. but nevertheless, it is a tremendous achievement that this extensive dossier on really controversial issues has been brought to fruition during the austrian presidency. i would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues for their trusting and very constructive cooperation, and also our staff from the itre secretariat and all the other departments of parliament, the political advisers, the various political groups, and of course i would also like to thank the assistants in particular for their work. we have achieved a great deal together for the european energy transition and for the citizens of the eu.
member of the commission. – madam president, it’s a real pleasure to be here today to discuss the concluding building blocks of our clean energy for all europeans package. these four legislative acts – the electricity regulation, the electricity directive, the risk-preparedness regulation and the new rules for the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) – are the final pieces in the jigsaw. with this, we are completing the biggest legislative package the european union has ever had on energy policy, and we are finalising a new, modern rulebook for the energy sector across our continent which is fit for the challenges ahead. i thank the european parliament for its strong support throughout the constructive negotiations. this allowed us to secure a political agreement last december. my special thanks reach out in particular to the rapporteurs: krišjānis kariņš, whom i congratulate once more for having become prime minister of latvia in january this year; flavio zanonato; and morten helveg petersen. of course, i would also like to thank jerzy buzek, chair of the committee on industry, research and energy, all political group coordinators, and all the shadow rapporteurs involved, without whom these agreements would not have been possible. this close cooperation has made it possible to preserve the complementarity and the consistency of these proposals. we have agreed an ambitious package which will take us one step closer to the completion of the energy union. this was one of the priorities of the juncker commission that you endorsed almost five years ago. taken together, the agreed legislation will ensure that the european union electricity market is more secure, more sustainable and more competitive. in short, these new laws are good for consumers, good for the economy and good for the planet. from a consumer perspective, it is the first time that european energy legislation has included so many measures to protect and to empower consumers. consumers can become active players and individually benefit and drive the energy transition. this is essential. the cleaner energy transition will not succeed unless we take consumers along and win broad societal support. through our energy market legislation, consumers will gain better information. household bills will become clearer so that consumers can better understand what they are paying for. switching will become easier and faster. in principle, it will become possible within 24 hours as of 2026. easily-understandable comparison tools will help consumers make rational choices and benefit from lower prices. in this context, i have to mention that the commission will transmit for the minutes a declaration as regards alternative dispute resolution and on how we will assess the effectiveness of such mechanisms. smart meters will help consumers save energy through adapted consumption and reaction to market prices. again, this will help them to save money and benefit directly from more competitive markets. consumers can become prosumers and can invest in global generation, consume, store or sell electricity to the market. they can do this individually or collectively. for the first time, the new legislation recognises the concept of citizens’ energy communities. with these measures, we will follow up on our pledge to put the consumer at the heart of the energy union. the new rules bring advantage also from a wider economic perspective. the rules on the electricity market will make markets more integrated and more flexible. the market will deliver better signals to prompt and enable more investment, in particular in clean and flexible solutions. this in turn will not only have a direct positive impact on the electricity price, it will also create more growth and jobs. we have reinforced regional cooperation and the rules to keep cross-border capacity open for trade. this will bring us a step further towards integrating national markets into a true internal electricity market, which is a precondition for a cost-effective decarbonisation of the power system. the same holds true for the new common framework on capacity mechanisms. this will ensure that such mechanisms will only be used where needed, and if so, that they will be open across borders. this will bring considerable economic efficiency gains. in this context, i have to mention that the commission will transmit a declaration for the minutes as regards the ambitious opinion of reform implementation plans, which may be in the context of state aid assessment or separate. furthermore, the commission will transmit a declaration as regards the definition of interconnectors, highlighting the difference between electricity and gas. finally, energy security is vital for our business and economy. with the challenges of the energy transition, we must also ensure security of supply for the economy and for our citizens. the new risk-preparedness regulation will make our system more resilient and will ensure better coordination among member states and introduce a spirit of solidarity. i come now to my third point: to consider what the new electricity market design brings for the environment and sustainability in a more long-term perspective. we have already agreed ambitious targets for renewable energy and energy efficiency, and the new market design will make a major contribution towards achieving this and will help us to meet our paris agreement commitments. the markets will become more flexible, more free for increasing sales of renewable electricity. at the same time, with the new emission limit in future capacity mechanisms we will ensure that the solutions to our security of supply are consistent with our climate objectives. the agreed transition arrangements are realistic, and we will allow all players to adapt to these new requirements. all of the above will help european industry and economy by giving a clear sense of direction, but it will also reduce local air pollution for the benefit of our citizens. we know that our new rules are looked at with great interest also in other parts of the world. i want to underline again that, with this package of measures, we are the first party to the paris agreement to have adopted all necessary domestic legislation for fulfilling our commitments. at the same time, it puts us in a good position for the upcoming discussion on the long-term strategy. thanks to your help, the european union is showing a clear path for the rest of the world to follow. i look forward to the debate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to say first of all that it has taken us almost three years to adopt this package. it was not the commission or parliament that did this, but the council which blocked it. in the end, we can be satisfied with this package. i was in the negotiations for acer. mr petersen has conducted the negotiations very well; i want to confirm this explicitly. however, we adopted our opinion in committee by a large majority on 21 february 2018. it took us almost a year to reach an agreement with the council! the commission wanted to give acer broad powers, but the council none at all. we have done so and in this respect parliament has also conveyed that acer's role has been strengthened and transformed in a changing internal market. the commission has so far been primarily responsible for coordinating, advising and monitoring national regulatory authorities. we are now at the point where acer has been given a limited but still decisive power and where acer can have adequate financial resources and oversee the regional coordination centres. i therefore conclude that the revision of the acer regulation has been a success.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we have been working very hard for two years on the reform of the electricity market. the result, the new electricity market design, is that we are now setting the stage for a decentralised, sustainable and secure electricity supply so that the energy transition can also succeed at european level. the choice of energy sources plays a central role in this. renewables are the energy sources of the future. and that is why, as the negotiator of my group, i have campaigned for the first renewable energy to be fed into the grid through the feed-in priority system and the last to be cut off in the event of bottlenecks. at the same time, we have made it clear that in future, high-emission energy sources such as coal will no longer be supported by state subsidies. and we social democrats have also achieved that in future, citizen energy cooperatives will be given preferential treatment and will not be subject to disproportionate, unfair and non-transparent rules and costs. it was also important for my group to strengthen consumer protection for electricity customers. consumers will now be able to compare electricity tariffs from trusted and verified websites and change their supplier within 24 hours from 2022. electricity bills will be easier to understand because the first information is bundled on the first page. i would have liked sub-network operators like our public utilities to take a more active role in developing the charging infrastructure for e-mobility. unfortunately, this has not been the majority view, and i think this is a really wasted opportunity, because in the case of electric mobility in particular, public utilities can drive the expansion of the charging infrastructure across the board, precisely because they make a huge contribution to the acceptance of infrastructure projects. i would like to conclude by thanking my colleagues once again for the trusting and cooperative cooperation they have shown me.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i think we have to ask ourselves, when designing the electricity market, whether what has emerged is indeed sufficient for the next decades. is this decisive enough to counter climate change with something substantial that requires renewable energy? yes, and the question is, is this sustainable enough for energy security in the next few years? is that social enough? our answer is if we are to be honest: the glass is half full! we welcome the maintenance of regulated prices, for example in the electricity market, but we also criticise the half-hearted approach to tackling energy poverty with the soft language we find here. we're glad that citizen energy -- and i think that's a big step forward -- is getting regulated rights for the first time, especially when it comes to increasing the uptake of renewable energy, which is very, very important. but we are angry that consumer protection rights are not going far enough. we support the idea that in future the dirtiest coal-fired power stations should be left out of the safety reserve and no longer be subsidized. but, frankly, capacity markets are a very difficult thing to live with, because what we really need is something else, namely a consistent priority of renewable energy sources, not just small power plants, but as a general rule. we have not been able to achieve this, despite our efforts on the left. so what's half full is also half empty.
thank you very much, commissioner. i should now like to give the floor to mrs werner. she apologized to me earlier for having to be in a parallel session and therefore not being able to be present.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 26 march 2019. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the report by geoffroy didier, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on collective redress for the protection of the interests of consumers and repealing directive 2009/22/ec (com (((2018) 0184 - c8-0149/2018 - 2018/0089 ((cod)) (a8-0447/2018).
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would like to thank commissioner jourová for finally putting in place something that we as a parliament have been asking for a long, long time, but which the commission has not been able to do for a long time, and i would like to thank her in particular for that. i would have liked to have said to the citizens today: 'yes, we have the european union's case for you, the european solution, so that you can get your rights. but unfortunately, the situation is this: yes, we are doing a good job, we have good proposals, and this report is a good report and has been greatly improved by the european parliament, but unfortunately the council is not playing along. it has not yet adopted a common position or a basis for negotiation with parliament. i find that very regrettable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that prevents us from actually doing what we promised. we want that. we want this right to come at last. and we will not fail to work, also in the new electoral period, to ensure that this union lawsuit for the citizens of europe really comes to fruition.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are faced with a very crucial question today: how far can we take our ownership into a digital world? how can we adapt? do we really want to protect our property as we know it? and the property is still ours, or whose is it? are we here to create a legal framework for the internet so that owners are not basically robbed? that's the big question we're dealing with here today, and how much of that has to be balanced, has to be balanced between freedom of speech and the theft of property. that's what this is about. and do we want to allow everything on the internet in the end, or do we still have the protection of values? i know that the whole debate is based on the famous article 13 and that is what it all centers on. i would also like to make a brief statement on the other aspects of the directive. one is that we have a state-of-the-art text and data mining, a commercial text and data mining that we're implementing there, which is very advanced, and also the first opportunity in the world in this direction. we have created a way for the member states concerned to balance the judgment of the court of justice in reprobel against authors and publishers of books by means of article 12. we have created a way for artists - for small artists, for actors, for all creatives - also here with the articles 14 et seq., everything in the old order, to also get a better relationship with the rights holders, producer labels or publishers, without always having to go to court, because there are ways to improve the relationship accordingly. we have a chance with article 11 to give our press publishers a better right. and that's basically what we're doing here, which is just giving them the right. how they handle the law in the end is up to them, but they have the opportunity to come to a better understanding with the relevant platforms here, because here on the internet the opportunity prevails and this has developed in the last few years in such a way that you simply consider what is available on the internet to be free and use it in a way that publishers can no longer benefit from it. if we look at article 13, there's a lot of failure to point out that we've created an access, a definition, that we only allow those platforms to be covered by article 13 that know they're using someone else's property and making a lot of money off of it. ultimately, it becomes a question of how to actually implement this technically on platforms that invite everyone to upload anything you want, where the platforms also have to have a responsibility that we want to give them today - a responsibility to also handle the property of others properly and to also respect the property of others. that is the question we are dealing with today. we have created a workable, good basis for progress here, which also gives the member states a guide to implement the whole thing accordingly. so i think this is the right way to go about this, to balance this between property rights, freedom of speech and the digital world. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. three things are unprecedented in this copyright debate. first, 200,000 people demonstrated this weekend against this reform. five million people have signed a petition against upload filters. never before has there been such a widespread protest against an eu directive. secondly, never before has protest been so consistently ignored by this house. already in the summer, voters were exposed to a massive disinformation campaign. instead of dealing with criticism, every critical voice was covered in insults. there were rumors - as mr cavada has just said - that emails were coming from bots, the eu commission called critics a mob, and the head of the cdu delegation, mr caspary, even said that protesters were being paid. all these defamations are invented and easily refuted. they were launched by a few lobby groups and circulated in the newsletters of certain newspapers hoping to profit from copyright reform. unfortunately, this disinformation has worked. today, with images of mass demonstrations going around the world, some still believe that the emails were not from real people. this belief that all criticism is driven from america has vaccinated them against dealing with the content of the concern. it doesn't matter that the warnings about upload filters come from the federal data protection commissioner, the un special rapporteur on freedom of expression and leading research centers. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) thirdly, no one, neither the union, the spd nor the opposition, thinks that this reform is useful. no one wants to take political responsibility for upload filters that come with article 13. the federal government will vote for it anyway. i beg you, colleagues, take your time. i would like to speak, too. thank you. thank you. madam chairman, i'll wait until the other members have calmed down. (the president declared the common position adopted as amended) no one in the german government wants to take responsibility for the upload filters, not even chancellor merkel. the federal government will vote for it anyway. and since yesterday we also know what this could be because the faz has uncovered a cow trade between germany and france, according to which germany apparently accepts upload filters in exchange for france's approval of the nord stream gas pipeline. the most tragic... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (the president declared the motion for a resolution adopted) the most tragic thing about this process, ladies and gentlemen, is that a new generation, which is going to the european elections for the first time this year, is about to learn its lesson. your protests are worthless, the politicians will spew lies about you and will not be impressed by factual arguments when it comes to hard-nosed geopolitical interests. this experience, this feeling of powerlessness, will be a permanent part of her. ladies and gentlemen, this is no way to conduct our politics. this directive must not be adopted without amendment. not only would this be devastating to online freedom, it would also rob an entire generation of the confidence that politics works and that this parliament represents the interests of the people. that is why we must delete articles 11 and 13. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. if so, because i understood you that way, i want to make it very clear and repeat what i said, and i ask you to take only my words and not what you and other interested parties deliberately misinterpret and misinterpret. i said: "now, obviously, there is an attempt to prevent the adoption of copyright by using bought-in protesters". i am not referring specifically to the thousands of young people and the thousands of people who are taking to the streets, exercising their right to demonstrate. i will always defend that because i am a staunch democrat. but if the frankfurter allgemeine zeitung published an article with the headline ... (the president cut the speaker off)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - mr caspary! - what are you doing? you just read it yourself. you said some of the protesters were bought. and you said 450 euros. we heard all that. the 450 euros you mentioned, the civil rights organisation edri offered to its members and volunteers to come to brussels to take part in lobby meetings. that's what gema does. you do not really think that if, for example, members of gema are invited to brussels, they will have to bear their own travel expenses? these are not bought-and-paid-for protesters. (the president cut the speaker off) ) (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank you for your kind words. the text says that platforms must prevent uploading of reported content. they can try to get licenses, but the rights holders don't have to license them and can insist on upload filters when in doubt. it's very clear in the text. (applause from the right)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. for over two and a half years we have been struggling here in parliament and with the member states to find a balanced compromise and finally have a text that makes it possible to have more fairness on the internet and in particular to hold the big corporations that are ruthlessly capitalising to account. the protection of intellectual property is a fundamental right, and voting against copyright today is voting for art and culture to become a free art again. in 2016, the median annual income of a european director and screenwriter was €19,000. that cannot be the aim of our society and the aim of our politics. the same politicians who are here fighting loudly for minimum wages, for adequate incomes, ignore a situation in which large capitalist corporations exploit cultural workers to the point of extinction. the aim of this directive is not to block content but to license it. and to make sure it doesn't become a mammoth task, we've simplified the licensing process. in this respect, freedom of expression is guaranteed, inter alia, in recital 70, article 17 (7), (8) and (9) and in many other areas. in addition, there are many exceptions to avoid disproportionate requirements. non-commercial platforms and platforms such as wikipedia, dropbox, ebay are in principle excluded from the directive, and special rules apply also to start-ups, micro and small enterprises. if they fall outside the exceptions, the proportionality of the measures and the proportionality that is behind them still apply. we're bringing fairness to the internet, and platforms are the ones who are reaping the greatest benefits. we need to create rules that allow fairness on the internet and that put an end to the pure capitalism that we see here again and again.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we want a free, but also finally fair, network. we want freedom and responsibility. we don't want to be censored. none of us are! censorship is in china, but there is no copyright protection. what we want is for active, commercial platforms to finally have to license. everything that is licensed is not filtered. it's a win-win situation we're proposing. uploaders get legal certainty, there are no more waves of warnings, platforms finally have to take responsibility, and authors and journalists are finally being paid fairly. that's what i call a fair rule! and we're bringing the justice to the free web that we all want. we need rules for platform capitalism in general. they have to pay taxes, they have to take responsibility when there are disinformation campaigns. we need data protection. we've already decided that. and copyright protection is, for me, part of that package of regulations. it's not about over-regulation. it's just about fair rules. and authors are a minority in our society. they need our protection, they need our support. please vote in favour of this directive. it's about justice on the internet.
i have to say, madam president, i once welcomed the european harmonization of copyright law. but what we have here is anything but brave. the reform advocates, particularly publishers and recyclers, say that the creative sector has been strengthened. but five million people -- and i'm asking you, these are creative people -- have now signed a petition saying, "you can't let machines make fundamental rights decisions. that's what the rule of law is for. and no matter how upload filters are defined in article 13 or 17, smaller providers cannot negotiate licenses with the whole world. this is absurd. the costly filter requirement remains. the platform regulation is different: digital tax, ethical algorithms, strict antitrust laws. and that is why we reject the outcome of the trilogue. let's find better ways to do this. it's not about market cleansing, it's about free communication in the 21st century, analog and digital.
i have to say, madam president, the only opposition to this reform is from google, say the proponents of the directive. but that's not true! the federal data protection commissioner, the un special rapporteur on human rights, many scientists and many authors are opposed to this. this reform is making recyclers stronger, but not more creative. the truth is, this debate is about much more than copyright. it's about how we handle our democracy. five million people signing a resolution is what the commission calls a mob. critical young people are called remote-controlled bots and computer programs by the political opponents, the proponents of reform. young people demonstrating are assumed to accept a demonstration fee of 450 euros and go to demonstrate just for that. this debate is about the state of our democracy, and we need to take seriously the young europeans in particular who have serious concerns about this reform, which will actually destroy their internet as they know it. ladies and gentlemen, we must abolish article 13. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. dear colleague, you just listed who, apart from google, is still against the reform. the minister for justice and the leading candidate of the german social democrats, mrs barley, you have now forgotten in the list. what's her position now? it is not the case that the commission has not been consulted on the matter, but that it has been consulted on the matter. that is why i am not quite clear about this, and i hope you will clarify it a little.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. dear dennis, it's an honor to help you. the federal minister of justice refuses upload filters and had to give in to the federal chancellor who has made a deal with the french government, as the faz reported yesterday. there is supposedly the exchange and the faz does not do such a thing just so publicly gas against upload filters. that's why.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it's amazing what the faz has uncovered, isn't it? clearly, there are extraneous connections being made, and there is some kind of trade-off between nord stream 2 on the one hand and the upload filters on the other. i do not think that is the way we should be doing politics here. we should ask the question: do we really need these upload filters to enforce the completely undisputed copyright protection? nobody wants to take away artists' income, but is it really necessary to do that with these filters? and when it is said in this house that the law does not provide for filters at all, that is simply not true. because of course, the law states that every platform must first verify whether it is actually infringing copyright before making the content public. this review is a filtering, and that's why there's an upload filter in this bill. but this upload filter is going to lead to overblocking, and it's going to lead to the fact that the small artists who don't have a distributor, who don't have a publisher, will not be able to distribute their content. and that's why what's happening here is anti-competitive. we should delete article 13 from the copyright directive and otherwise pass it because copyright protection is important as such.
i have to say, madam president, two reasons why we should not approve this directive. first of all, start-ups are not really exempt and after three years are forced to take over filters from the big companies. this is a wonderful business model for the big american companies, and it's not what we can possibly hope for. it does not even guarantee what the directive is intended to do - its very purpose, which is to ensure that authors and artists are properly remunerated. because these rights are totally diluted in the recitals, and i think that's not what we want, but we want strong rights for the creative. and they are not guaranteed here, because only those who work for publishers are protected, and all the others who work completely freely do not have that protection. and i think that's exactly the wrong thing.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members of the european parliament for this debate. many speakers spoke about upload filters today. to be clear, upload filters are not mentioned in the text of the directive, but as we all know they are already used by big platforms. voting down the directive will not take away upload filters. the directive will, on the contrary, give our citizens of the right to ask for reuploads and contest removals of content that they should be able to upload. this is a major improvement on the current situation. the vote on the copyright directive is about europe’s message to its creators. it is simple, we care about you and we protect you so that you continue your invaluable work and contribution to our culture. culture is what european societies are built on. it is at the source of our values and our inspiration. the ultimate beneficiaries of this directive will be europe’s citizens. a modernised legal environment for copyright will improve their access to european arts, entertainment and quality journalism. this vote is also about the eu’s ability to tackle the complex and important legal challenges of the online environment. we understand that there are different voices and different opinions. this is normal in such an important debate. we have listened to the different views and respect all of them. however, we believe that the text resulting from the trilogue is balanced and delivers on our objective to modernise european copyright law. it is time to step up and make european copyright law fit for the digital age. thank you president, thank you mr voss and shadow rapporteurs, thank you honourable members. (applause)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. with this reform, there will be no censorship. this reform does not restrict the legitimate freedom of expression. with this reform, we are creating legal certainty for the lawful use of copyrighted works and offering much more opportunities for individual users and citizens. google, facebook, youtube are doing a governance by shitstorm here, spreading disinformation, spending a lot of money to steal public opinion. they show how easy it is to exploit or to let exploit particularly younger groups of the population. that is why the question today is whether a parliament and our democracy can still prevail against powerful platforms. it is about the rule of law, it is about protecting a fundamental right that we are talking about here. it's about property, it's about intellectual property rights, and it's ultimately about fair compensation for the creators. it is up to us today to save europe's cultural heritage and not to leave it to the exploitation of tech monopolists. it is also up to us today to provide our european creatives with the protection they so badly need. so i ask you all: so please support today's proposal for a balanced reform.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the regional development funds are and will remain a useful instrument for development, especially in rural areas, and are therefore indispensable in the social balance of the european regions. the new focus is on a greener europe; we welcome that, too. but this is not about decorative cosmetics, but about a very fundamental social-ecological transformation. we want to make this clear: social ecological rethinking and structural change are not something that can be done at zero cost. in particular, we call for a minimum of 40% of erdf funding to be allocated to projects in the field of social and ecological change just transition in all regions. secondly, we reject the idea that an ambitious catalogue of socio-ecological conversion can encourage investment in the construction of airports or even in fossil energy technology. thirdly, it is important that integration projects on the ground are eligible regardless of the recognition and residence status of the migrant women. the social-ecological structural change must be actively designed - we remain on the left.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very sorry that the non-attached member has now left instead of listening to what the erdf is actually doing. because then he wouldn't have to tell so many stupid things like he just did. the erdf is a programme of growth for all regions and above all for all citizens. what we want is to invest heavily in a modern, digital europe, a green europe, a social europe, a europe of the people, of the city and of the countryside. this fund is in fact for research, for innovation, for new jobs, for the fight against climate change. and it is so important, especially before the european elections, to show people where european money is going. and the erdf and the cohesion fund together account for a quarter of the budget. so it's important to tell people: the money is going back to your region, to your city. and there are reasonable expenses involved. our group does not want to support regional airports from which no one takes off anymore. our group does not want to promote gas pipelines or fossil fuels either. we want a fund which is able to put important screws on it, which makes europe fit and which is able to meet the challenges.
the rapporteur. the commission has already done so. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this legislation is a lesson that the better argument can also and precisely then exist if the opposite party claims the opposite without presenting better arguments themselves. we have achieved a great deal for european consumer protection with these two sister directives. consumer law also applies when customers do not pay with hard currency but companies receive personal data which they commercialise, for example through targeted advertising. the consumer protection rights are of course the same - not the way it was originally intended - whether consumers download an app or rent or buy an online game, and whether consumers make their purchases with and through a smart fridge. all software must be interoperable with all common hardware - this too is an important principle. consumers have a right to software updates that lead to longer life and higher security of internet-enabled and so-called smart products, which would be useless and worthless without corresponding functioning software. the portability of content produced by consumers over a short or long period of use of social networks, cloud services or smart speakers is another point: the maintenance of minimum harmonisation in the area of guarantee periods with a simultaneous extension of the period or for the reversal of the burden of proof from six months to one year or even two years in certain cases. i think that we have really put components into this legislation, into these two directives, which have become real twin directives, thanks to our strong cooperation, including with the rapporteur, mr arimont, so that we have really got the best out of it for consumers. it was not so obvious from the beginning, because we had to fight very, very hard for three years to make this right really come into force. the commission has not always agreed. the right wing of this european parliament has also had to swallow some of this. but it has been achieved. with the help of a great, tireless and constantly content-driven team, i achieved my goal, which i had - a goal for which i was occasionally laughed at at the beginning of this legislative process. i remember at the beginning saying: 'yes, i want this right, it should be developed, but it must not be subordinated to any right in any member state.' it was said: 'this is not possible, we want full harmonization, and if we take over all the law in all the countries, that is unacceptable. we made it. we have succeeded, partly thanks to cooperation with the commissioner and partly because we have achieved minimum harmonization in certain areas, so that where there is a right of extension, that right of extension can be maintained. because the populists would have been happy if we had done it differently, because they would have had the best. so i'm incredibly proud of what we've accomplished. at the same time, we have achieved an unprecedented level of international and innovative consumer protection law - that is, digital consumer protection in european terms.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: first of all, i should like to thank the commission very warmly for this very progressive proposal, which has been made in a new field. and i would like to thank the co-rapporteur, mrs gebhardt, very warmly for the very intensive cooperation which has resulted in something good as a result of the debate. mrs gebhardt has pushed consumer protection further, and i was actually more interested in digital contract rights with my legal background. we have been able to put the two together well, and have achieved a reasonable and good result. it took us a long time to do this, but there were also some problems to be solved: firstly, the question of how we actually deal with the relationship with data protection, but also with copyright, and secondly, the great debate about how we actually deal with smart goods, where we had managed to include this in this directive, and then, during the negotiations with the council, we decided to include these smart goods in the report that will follow, by pascal arimont on tangible goods, because it played a reasonable role there. what we wanted to achieve in principle was full harmonisation in individual legal systems as far as possible, and we also wanted to leave no gaps in the treatment of these smart goods, which also led us to say: the legal consequences of the two acts must in substance be identical. it doesn't matter if i buy the same product in person, order it online, or download it. and that's what it often came down to and where it became difficult to draw a line. i therefore believe that with the digital content directive we have also created a good basis for a common digital internal market, that we have been able to achieve from minimum harmonisation to full harmonisation within certain deadlines what i sometimes wish the council to see in a slightly more positive way for the future: that there is also a desire to establish a digital internal market in the digital field, and that it does not shy away from including only its own rules of civil law or civil law, saying that we must not interfere. no, we must create a level in this digital area where we are all convinced that it is precisely there that full harmonisation across europe makes sense. the directive we are discussing today is designed to ensure that the contractual remedies also apply to the supply of digital content throughout the union. at present, at eu level, only the minimum requirements of the 1999 directive are applicable, and therefore these different laws and legal uncertainty persist, which also affect consumer confidence in cross-border trade. that is why this step has been taken now. we also want to make sure that it no longer makes a difference whether a consumer purchases digital content or services in one member state or another. the reversal of the burden of proof and the full harmonisation in this area make the legal situation in each member state clear. so i think we're taking an important step here and making good progress on the digital level as well.
member of the commission. – mr president, it is clear for me now, having also heard the debate and the statements of the rapporteurs, that this is a great opportunity for this parliament to seal an important agreement that brings concrete benefits for european consumers and businesses. this is exactly what europe needs at a time when the relevance and proximity of union policies to its citizens are being so often questioned. i therefore strongly encourage this house to endorse with its vote the political agreement on the digital contracts package and send a strong signal that we can live up to the challenge of ensuring eu consumers and businesses can fully benefit from the digital world. the commission will take very seriously the cooperation with the member states to ensure timely transposition and application of the package and ensure that they continue to meet the challenges of the digital single market.
the rapporteur. the commission is not thank you, commissioner. i think that with this right, which we will be voting on later, we will be doing a great service to innovation and also to the digital sector, because we will be creating legal certainty, legal certainty for consumers, legal certainty for traders and legal certainty for producers. and this is a very important question in an area which is increasingly in flux and in which we must ensure that there is a european response. i believe that we have preserved the achievements of national law and at the same time we have achieved a high and innovative level of consumer protection that is unprecedented internationally. this is digital consumer protection at european level. this is digital consumer protection, as it is also about innovation and making sure that we can do the best for citizens. and i'm proud that we've managed to achieve this.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not thank you to all the speakers! i would like to appeal once again to everyone in this house to agree with this result that we have found in the two linked reports on digital content and the online sales of goods directive, because we have made a good step in both reports. we have set the guarantee harmonization at two years, we have set the burden of proof for us in one full harmonization and in the other report at between one and two years, so that this is another step for all consumers. it is important for the digital single market, it is important for legal certainty, it is important for consumers and it is important for cross-border trade. i would therefore like to thank all those who have contributed to this, in particular the commission, pascal arimont and evelyn gebhardt for the intensive cooperation. thank you very much.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i abstained in the final vote on copyright after the request for a separate vote on article 13, which i co-signed, was rejected. intellectual property rights must be protected and enforced in the digital world as well. i am guided by the principle of rewarding rather than forbidding. and although the aim is licensing in the version now adopted, i would have preferred flat-rate payments to avoid technical filtering in case of doubt. because this has brought a lot of people to the streets. that's why i couldn't agree. but i didn't say no, because i think it's right to make the platforms responsible, because their business model is based on uploads, on data. there are also good results for science and education, and for the rights of creatives and publishers. that is why i could not reject the directive in its entirety. i am now counting on the transposition of the directive into national law to achieve the further balance between diversity on the net and enforcement of copyright.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the directive today. i am afraid that parliament has today opened the way to an undemocratic censorship machine which will restrict the internet for private interests, economic interests, without any democratic control. we've empowered the goons to censor the internet. under the pretext of protecting intellectual property, freedom of expression is being abolished. private censorship will be stronger than government censorship ever was, algorithms will control opinions. this has not been a good day for it creatives, this has not been a good day for cultural creatives, and it has been a dark day for the internet.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm against the compromise of the copyright directive because of article 13, now 17. i welcome a law that protects content, that pays artists, authors, musicians, journalists, the right amount. intellectual property cannot be bought at zero cost. anyone who puts it on the internet has to pay for it. the control of protected works by upload filters is, however, prone to error. algorithms do not adequately distinguish between corporate law and copied content. this is not a battle between young and old, analog and digital. i hope that the implementation of the copyright directive just adopted in the member states will take account of the many concerns. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not adversely affected. the internet must be fair, it must be open and it must remain accessible to all.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the directive because it does not represent a fair compromise between the interests of authors and the interests of net users. other solutions would have made this possible. but the fact that the rights holders in particular and the majority of this house have underestimated the risk that upload filters pose and have ignored the criticism that they have received is, in my view, a serious mistake. the authors will find that this directive does not bring them what they hoped for. the monopolisation of economic power is encouraged rather than hindered, and we have met many young people who want to be involved in our common european cause.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. for five years i worked on the taxe, tax2 and tax3 special committees on combating tax evasion and avoidance, and also on the committee investigating the panama papers. i've been in a number of hearings from bankers to accountants to tax investigators to finance ministers. the work of whistleblowers and of the intensely researching journalists, but also of us meps, has paid off. i would like to highlight the hearing with the son of the journalist daphne galizia, who was murdered in malta in 2017. the tax3 report incorporated more than 1200 amendments. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against money laundering. we insist on country-by-country reporting. the future european parliament must continue this work and the member states must finally cooperate better. the unanimity on taxation matters must be ended. the eu must also be fair in tax matters.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the financial management of the other institutions and bodies was largely satisfactory in 2017. only a few irregularities were detected. in addition, however, we have also examined certain aspects of administration and personnel management. as rapporteur, it was important to me to highlight working conditions in the face of an increasing workforce, to highlight the steps needed to achieve equality for women and to take a determined approach to harassment at work. i welcome the fact that many of parliament's recommendations from the last discharge have been taken up and that there have been positive developments in the management of administrative and human resources. for example, the european external action service has made progress in the administrative procedures in the delegations, in particular in the tendering procedures through targeted training, pooling of expertise and development of it systems. i particularly welcome cooperation with other national delegations abroad. the committee of the regions and the economic and social committee have a good record of administrative cooperation. for example, sharing buildings and translation services has led to significant savings in this area. however, we have noticed a significant backlog of investment, particularly in it systems. i am in favour of closer cooperation between the two institutions, but i am against the call for further cuts in their budgets in this context. the european ombudsman does an excellent job as a point of contact for citizens. it manages to increase its efficiency continuously, despite the increasing demand for work. however, i have the impression that the potential for savings has been reached and that more resources will be required in the medium term. the european court of justice has made a significant effort to speed up the processing of its cases, following the recommendation of the court of auditors and the parliament. the establishment of a new case management system is therefore to be welcomed. the recent reform of the court, the doubling of the number of judges and the simultaneous steady increase in the number of cases, will have to continue to concern us in the future. the european court of auditors is an indispensable partner in the overall discharge and provides valuable support through its reports and participation in our events. i find the communication with citizens through social media and the press remarkable. the european data protection supervisor is a growing body, which is gaining in importance not least because of the rapid development of legislation in the field of data protection. in addition to these positive developments, however, we have had some problems this year: the council continues to refuse to accept parliament's discharge and has again refused to testify before our committee. we are continuing to work on a new agreement with the council. however, an agreement is still pending. i therefore recommend that the discharge be postponed for this year in the hope of making progress in the future. for years, the committee of the regions has been concerned by a dispute between the committee and a former member of staff who was involved in the discovery of irregularities in the cor's expenditure. with my colleague from the alde group, mr klinz, we have worked to ensure that there will be a conciliation procedure, which is also supported by a large majority of the committee. we hope that this procedure will then also lead to a good result. the committee on economic and social affairs has been informed of individual cases of stress and of the lack of progress in dealing with them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. the socialist group is in favour of a zero-tolerance policy on harassment. the european court of auditors has had a serious incident in which irregularities were detected in travel costs and the use of company cars. here too, rules need to be improved and the presence of members more clearly recorded. the committee on budgetary control will monitor these developments and support them positively.
draft opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. as a consultative committee, we in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs have made recommendations for the discharge of the agencies concerned by libe. in principle, we recommend that parliament should discharge all these agencies. i would like to make a few points, however. it is regrettable that the agencies partly due to lack of funds are not able to publish their vacancy notices on the epso website in all the official eu languages. we see here the need for action on the part of the commission. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data. at the eu-lisa database agency, we complain that 90% of the work is done by three external service providers. this leads to dependence and can even become a safety hazard. lastly, i would like to point out that the sample size for budgetary control is sometimes so small that it is difficult to make a reasonable judgement about the efficiency of the agencies.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would like to welcome the president-in-office of the council very warmly and thank him for coming and for speaking. i would like to invite you to continue the discussions so that we can still succeed in getting the boring matter of discharge from the council off the table, but also in shortening the discharge procedure as a whole. welcome, we're glad you came! commissioner, thank you very much for your kind words. i also want to thank you and your team. we know that the discharge is being taken seriously, we thank you for that, and we would also like to ask that we reach a solution in the period ahead to the points you have announced, particularly the issue of the call for tenders for directors-general, which is more important to us than the appointment of the secretary-general, which is left to each institution. i would like to thank you for the conflict of interest and i would like to say to you on the subject of the img and especially on the last motions that we are surprised so i was surprised, i only learned about the appeal judgment today and took note of it. the img was an organisation set up by former commission officials and is still at least partly run by them. so if you can't see from a judgment like that what the court's position is on the status of this organization and why, i find it a shocking lack of transparency. i also wonder why the commission, after winning the first instance, was so bad this time that it lost everything. did you want to lose it? we need to talk about that. we'll probably find you there. we would like to thank the court of auditors and look forward to working with it in the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european development funds are celebrating 60 years of existence this year. the 11th european development fund, now in operation, is bound by the cotonou agreement, which expires next year, as are the 9th and 10th. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that the edf should finally lose its special status as a fund alongside the eu budget, also in view of the fact that the objectives of edf programmes have often not been achieved, the implementation errors have been disproportionately high, as the court of auditors has found, and, especially in recent times, the fund has been increasingly used as a source of new financial instruments and trust funds, while not increasing the transparency and visibility of eu development policy and still leaving much to be desired. i welcome the commission's proposal to transfer the edf funds to the european budget in future and thus to remove parliamentary control and influence ... (the president withdrew the floor.)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i'll make this quick. i would like to thank my fellow shadow rapporteurs very warmly for the good cooperation they have shown, but also the other institutions, the staff there for their excellent support and, of course, all the parties involved and the staff of the secretariats.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
i thank you very much, mrs berès. i would like to say, in the interests of good order, that no request has been declared inadmissible in this report.
- i'm not going to. if mr marc tarabella did indeed do that - i do not normally make such remarks - i think it was on the ballot in this case.
mr president, i will allow you to do so again. but we should stick to the rules of procedure.
thank you very much, mr president, for your valuable contribution.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the european automobile industry, its suppliers and its workers are getting serious. tomorrow we will vote on a significant tightening of the co2 limits for cars and light commercial vehicles. the co2 emissions from passenger cars are to be reduced by 15% by 2025 and by 37,5% by 2030. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. climate action is important, there's no doubt about it. but i also tell you that reaching these limits will not be a child's play. the result of the negotiations has once again gone far beyond the original commission proposal. we must not forget, however, which limits were actually being manipulated at the beginning of the debate in the european parliament. the socialists wanted a 50% cut, the greens wanted a 75% cut - absolutely absurd, unrealistic, and tens of thousands of jobs would have been destroyed. at what cost? the unilateral focus on electric mobility would have merely shifted emissions from the tailpipe to the power plants. we now have a compromise. we've accomplished a lot. the interim target of 15% by 2025 is realistic, the review in 2023 of how far we really are is important, and the separate target for light commercial vehicles of 31% is also fine. the epp has also been committed from the outset to improving the accounting of innovative technologies such as synthetic fuels. it is very regrettable that for ideological reasons a majority for a technology-neutral solution was not possible. clearly, we have missed an opportunity here. i will continue to fight for this openness to technology. nevertheless, we should now put this law, this compromise, into effect. we must give producers the necessary planning certainty. the development of the vehicles that are to be on the market by 2025 is already well under way.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i do not want to say too much about the regulation itself tonight. we have had a very intensive debate on this. i believe that with this regulation we are indeed moving towards clean mobility, a mobility which will also ensure that consumers pay less. that's good! the transport revolution will happen, and it is right that we europeans should help shape it and create the conditions for it. but we also have a responsibility towards working people, particularly as social democrats, and it is therefore right that this regulation should be designed to be open to technology, as my colleague mr gieseke has just said. it is also right that we have excluded the inclusion of synthetic fuels in the automotive sector, because we know that with the space available we must make better use of these fuels, for example in air transport, for example in lorries, where we do have them included. in future, we as europeans must ensure that just transition is at the heart of our efforts, also in this house. we must put a lot more money into the hands of the workers to provide them with further training. we must also think about working hours in the future, and how to divide the work available better. all of this is a societal task, and as a societal task we must understand climate protection. the demonstrations of the fridays for the future and the young europeans who are demanding that we leave them something of this planet are proof of this.
no, i think that the cdu colleagues must learn to behave in this house and not to shout like a mob in between, and the blue card would encourage that behaviour. (the speaker rejects a question on the 'blue card' procedure by mr paul rübig.)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to ask mr torvalds whether he has not noticed that the price of co2 in the ets has risen to over 20 euros. this will reduce the co2 emissions in the power plant area. and i would like to ask the honourable member whether he has not noticed that germany is in the process of getting out of coal - with first measures in the next two or three years. it's a hell of a journey, and we're hoping for support, not just ignorance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. climate protection and safety at work must go hand in hand. so it was very important to look at this legislation and what the impact on jobs would be. i am very grateful to the commission for having carried out an additional impact assessment to assess the proposals that were on the table. the result was clear: proposals for 75% or even the original proposal by miriam dalli for 50% would have cost jobs in europe. but this analysis by the commission - and i have not met anyone who can refute it, other claims are not supported in my view - also shows that it is wrong to say that every percentage above 30 is a disaster. the commission shows that even if we are at around 40% - and we are now at just below that with a margin of safety - there are still positive effects on jobs in europe as a whole. and that is why it would not have been wise not to use this margin of manoeuvre, especially when many people, especially many young people, expect the european union to do more to protect the climate. so it is a sensible compromise and i hope that we will support it tomorrow by consensus or by a large majority. i would like to thank all those who have contributed: the rapporteur, of course, but especially the epp group, jens gieseke, commissioner miguel arias cañete and the president of the council, elisabeth köstinger. it's a good result!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are talking today about schizophrenia, which is expressed in the immense new co2 emissions requirements that this house has wanted. we are talking about the eu's struggle to find an industrial strategy in the best economically planned way, while it wants to put an end to its best industrial workhorse - the automobile industry. we're talking about the eu assuming zero emissions for electric cars, which is scientifically wrong and physically completely impossible. mrs dalli, when you talk about zero-emission vehicles, it is above all because you are clueless. we are talking about the fact that you are now hitting the big german car manufacturers in the face and thereby weakening germany, which they expect to guarantee their savings in banks, to finance cohesion policy and agricultural subsidies and to tolerate their weakness in competition. ladies and gentlemen, this is not going to work. let them go! hold it right there! and this applies not only to you, but also to the german government, which i do not appreciate at all, and which unfortunately suffers from the same schizophrenia.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the draft resolution is not only based on goals that are far removed from reality, but it also raises the question of what ideology is being pursued. and this ideology shows that it is against individual transport, because there are many arguments thrown around here that are completely baseless. commissioner arias cañete, when you say that you want a zero-emission vehicle, that is utopian. there are no zero-emission vehicles, and they are not even foreseeable. and when we talk about electric vehicles, we say: "these are the saviors". this is nonsense, ladies and gentlemen! the electricity used there is produced in doubt - in germany at least - in coal-fired power stations, in power stations that run on oil, where the emissions occur. there is scientific research that shows very clearly that an electric vehicle, compared to a combustion engine, when it gets on the road, has already created the same environmental impact as the other one at 110,000 kilometers. i mean, these are facts we can't ignore! we are also constantly dealing with individual transport, with cars. what about the real polluters, such as shipping? it is well known that only a few large ships produce the same environmental pollution as all german passenger transport. you should answer that. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is true that the co2 limits for cars and light commercial vehicles are continually being adjusted and downgraded. we need energy-efficient cars, because that is the only way to achieve the eu's climate targets. but the limits we set today for 2025 and 2030 must also be achievable and provide the right incentives. in this respect, i welcomed the commission's proposal, which, with a 30% reduction target in 2030, takes into account that mobility must be affordable and that we must also ensure that the jobs in the automotive industry and the supplier companies remain with us in the eu. i would like to say that there is no comparable standard in the world. we are lagging behind in almost all member states in developing the charging infrastructure for electric vehicles. the electricity demand for electric cars is huge, and consumers have to embrace electric cars. first, we say diesel is bad - diesel is a good alternative for reducing co2 - then we do not give incentives for renewable fuels, and we do not give incentives for plug-in hybrids. we're just setting overambitious co2 limits on the drawing board. i think that is wrong and i shall therefore vote against it. i want to see not only teslas driving in europe in the future, but cars that we produce in europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, as chair of the committee on foreign affairs (afet), i would first of all like to thank all four rapporteurs for their excellent work. the objective of our european parliament is hopefully clear. we want to make sure that the european union’s external action is underpinned by sufficient funds so that it can be an effective tool for upholding and promoting our values and interests worldwide. european external action should be coherent and flexible. therefore, merging the numerous existing financing instruments is an important measure to reach this objective. as a european parliament, we have a fundamental interest in balancing coherence and flexibility with enhanced democratic accountability and control mechanisms. therefore, i do welcome that this report provides for an enhanced dialogue between our parliament and commissioner mimica – between the commission – and the use of delegated acts for important strategic decisions.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. 100 billion euros for seven years? this is a powerful instrument, which has been viewed with great scepticism by many of my colleagues. i would like to thank the rapporteurs in particular and my s&d colleague, antonio panzeri, with whom i have worked closely. i think it is a good draft, a comprehensive package which we have agreed together in the afet and deve committees and which we should not reopen. i would like to draw attention to a few selected important points which are important to me from the perspective of development cooperation. we have managed to get 45 percent of the total budget, instead of 25 percent, to be spent on climate, environmental protection, biodiversity and desertification. secondly, we have achieved that migration is seen more in the context of international challenges. we want migration policy to ensure people's safety and that it is well planned and implemented, and that people enjoy protection as enshrined in international law and our european union values. migration is really just the result of conflict, of poverty, of lack of development. and we want to focus on a strategy of sustainable root cause management. that's why 10 percent is actually enough for migration control. i think that we should expressly welcome this instrument, especially as social democrats. it also addresses gender equality and the rights and participation of women and girls. i am convinced that this instrument is a good basis and that the feedback from civil society is absolutely positive. thank you again for your constructive cooperation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is a trend that eu funds originally earmarked for development aid are now being used for migration and military purposes - for example, in the change of the instrument for stability and peace, the eu trust fund for africa and the merger of the previous external financial instruments into a single instrument. military as development aid? unfortunately, this is what is provided for in the commission proposal and unfortunately also in the text adopted by the committee. military intervention in conflict zones does not alleviate poverty or eliminate the causes of conflict. this is the final outcome of a neutral, civilian european crisis aid. the reason given is that the instruments are being combined to be more flexible and effective, at the expense of democratic control and transparency. in our view, the merger of all policy areas in the new ndici, including development cooperation, will lead to a subordination of all policies and eu aid to the geostrategic and economic interests of the eu. we are firmly opposed to the involvement and financing of military actors and so-called partner armies in training activities and their use as a kind of transitional administration - military as administration! - in crisis areas. this view is also shared by many local civil society organisations. i wonder where the socialist colleague from the committee on development got his information. we have tabled a motion for a resolution on this proposal.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, mr salafranca, thank you very much for your kind words. you are quite right about what you have said about me, but i can say to you one by one: it was a very good cooperation, and above all the result is right. ipa iii is an instrument which, with its 15 billion euros, does not serve any neighbourhood. the beneficiaries are none other than the future member states of the european union, namely the six western balkan countries. last weekend marked the 20th anniversary of the nato operation in the former yugoslavia against the milošević regime. this reminded us of the past of the region. the ultimate goal of eu enlargement policy, including in the war-torn western balkans, must be peace and reconciliation. ipa iii funds are intended to serve this purpose. the report therefore places particular emphasis on good neighbourly relations, cooperation and networking between the countries and the many different ethnic groups. the european union is the biggest donor in the region, but a staggering percentage of people there don't know this. but the people of the region need to know who their biggest supporter is. obviously, we need to get louder and clearer so that we can be heard and seen. other countries, such as china, russia, turkey and arab countries, have been investing for a long time. but these investments have nowhere near the same sustainable and forward-looking objectives as ours. i therefore say that we too must promote and represent our good work. the statistics tell us that the economy of the candidate countries is growing. but there is hardly any real improvement in living conditions. the growth is hardly generating new jobs and thus prospects for life back home. many people in the western balkans still see no other way out than emigration. it was therefore particularly important to us that this instrument not only provided help to central governments in the capital cities, but also reached rural regions. it should not matter which party has a majority there. the standard of living of the people must be improved, democracy and prosperity must go hand in hand. institution building, democratisation and the rule of law are also the highest priorities of our instrument. the guarantee of the rule of law is not a gift to mr juncker or mr tusk or commissioner hahn. their observance and implementation at the micro level down to the highest levels of society is the duty of both the state and the citizen. without the rule of law, eu law will not be adopted or properly implemented. however, the eu loses its credibility if it demands these values from the candidate countries, but at the same time some member states no longer respect them. and so let us set a good example and take every opportunity and, when in doubt, assert it. i think we have produced a good report. thank you to the co-reporters and the shadow reporters! i am sure that tomorrow we will be able to take the next step with a large majority, also in the interests of our friends in the western balkans.
member of the commission. – madam president, first i would like to congratulate the house, and in particular the rapporteurs, on the excellent work. i am particularly pleased, looking at the council and parliament’s positions, that there are many converging views, notably regarding the new thematic programming. the new proposal for pre—accession funding is a eur 14.5 billion investment in europe’s own stability, security and prosperity. this instrument helps our partners to strengthen their democratic institutions, improve their judiciaries and public administrations, reform their economies and introduce high eu standards to protect consumers and the environment. all this benefits directly citizens and business in those countries, as well as in the union itself. ipa iii will be more strategic. its programming is based on thematic priorities, rather than country allocations, giving it also more of a performance-based nature. it will be important to reach a balance between predictability, which is important for governments to plan their budgets and their national co-financing and, of course, performance, which will allow us to steer strategically and support those partners that commit and deliver. strengthening the policy dialogue and building an inclusive partnership with the european parliament is our objective. we should explore within the limits of the interinstitutional balance in the treaties. this will be one important point to be discussed during the dialogue, and we look forward to starting it as soon as possible. one issue that i would like to raise is about respecting the institutional setting between the commission and the european external action service. we clearly need maximum coherence between enlargement and external policy, but what is proposed to amend here would demand disrupting the institutional framework in place. enlargement policy is first and foremost about exporting internal policies. so, for example, when you propose a horizontal steering group we see duplication with what we have established already on the different chapters of the acquis. finally, you have proposed removing the cross-reference to ndici. as you know, one of the principles for this mff is simplification and, in particular, achieving a so-called ‘single rule book’. this is important because it streamlines the procedures within the commission, it increases coherence when dealing with outside partners, and reduces the administrative burden of our actions. i trust that your intention is not to undermine this objective, but as ndici and ipa will follow their separate negotiation, we have no guarantees of finishing with the same set of rules. once again i thank you for your extremely valuable report.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already made a number of proposals. eu accession policy is one of the eu's most successful policies. many countries and their citizens have found their way to the eu. the continuation of the preaccession aid instrument is essential for the accession process to proceed, as the people of these countries see their future in the eu. however, in most of these countries the accession process is very slow or, as in the case of turkey, marked by setbacks because it is too much focused on governments. for the countries of the western balkans and their people in particular, eu aid must also be transformed into a bottom-up process. strengthening the possibilities of cohesion policy, macro-regional and regional cooperation and cross-border cooperation between member states and local and regional authorities in the candidate countries would make the eu's efforts visible to citizens, which they are often not at present, as mr fleckenstein pointed out. the new regulations also offer cohesion policy many opportunities for cooperation, for example in the extension of the egf instrument. i hope they are taken up and applied.
madam president, as was already heard tonight, the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) remains the main tool for assisting the profound transformation of those countries aiming to become future members of our european union. i believe this third generation of the ipa instrument covering the period from 2021 to 2027 will be modernised and streamlined to reflect lessons learned while implementing ongoing ipa programmes. i welcome that, in this report, we advocate for an effective fair share principal, greater coherence, enhanced scrutiny and a stepped—up role for civil society. last but not least, we demand increased conditionality envisaging a targeted suspension of eu assistance in cases of systemic failures to respect fundamental eu values and backsliding on the copenhagen criteria. so let me thank the two honourable rapporteurs. this is the right way forward.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr annemans, have you not heard what we are discussing today? we decided a few weeks ago that we wanted the council to suspend the accession talks. we have said that we want to concentrate on the civilian population in terms of funds for turkey. ipa iii is a tool that allows us to say that if it does not work, there is less money. so it's working in the right direction. why are you repeating your speech from the other day? it was unnecessary. do you agree with me?
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have three final remarks. firstly, commissioner, we do not want to blur or change responsibilities, but we want to see a balance between foreign policy and neighbourhood policy or enlargement policy. i am quite sure that we will find the right formulation in our discussions, which will also make it clear that nothing should be changed in principle. secondly, i believe that the people of the western balkans can be quite happy with us. because it's not just about spreading our resources more widely, to consider other areas of work that we have not considered so far, such as climate protection, social, economy or jobs, but it's also about being able to do a little more or less together individually, depending on the efforts of the other side, and not in the super-teacher way: "if you don't do as i want, then there will be less", but vice versa: whoever makes a special effort, whoever picks up a little more speed, must also have a chance to be supported by us a little or better. and the last point: this ipa iii is a clear signal to the people of the western balkans: whatever the outcome of the next european elections, whatever the majorities in this house, the european parliament will always be, and will continue to be for the next few years, at the side of our friends in the western balkans and will endeavour to provide assistance, including the almost 15 billion euros, so that the european union can be merged as soon as possible. we are here to do this, and our successors in the next parliament will do it too.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, we will continue to monitor all developments in algeria, which is a key partner to our south. as i said, we hope that the situation remains peaceful and we believe it’s vital that the legitimate aspirations of the algerian people are addressed. at the same time, i believe we can agree that the best thing we can do right now is not to interfere in an internal process. we should be ready to provide support to the consensus and the ensuing process when the moment is ripe, while following closely the various steps on the way and remembering that it’s for the algerians to decide for themselves and among themselves how to make this transition happen. allow me therefore to express my appreciation for your attention and support in giving this important file the considered approach it deserves, and to stay vigilant on this subject.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, five years ago the russian federation illegally annexed the autonomous republic of crimea and the city of sevastopol. five years on, the european union remains steadfast in its support for ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. we do not, and we will not, recognise this violation of international law. we are unwavering in our non-recognition policy. the deterioration of the security situation in the black sea region is a constant source of concern, with an increasing militarisation of the crimean peninsula. the unjustified use of force by russia in the kerch strait last november, in itself another consequence of the illegal annexation, is a reminder of its negative impact on regional stability. the union expects russia to release unconditionally and without further delay the ukrainian crew members and vessels that were captured on that day. russia should ensure respect of their right to legal representation and access by consular authorities. we also expect russia to provide them with appropriate medical treatment. this unacceptable situation also stems from the construction of the kerch bridge without ukraine’s consent. some time ago, russia started to apply an inspection regime that limits the navigation through the kerch strait to, and from, ukraine ports and leads to significant delays. hundreds of vessels flying ukraine’s flag and international flags, including those of eu member states, have suffered from controls which can last several days. we expect russia to ensure unhindered and free passage of all ships through the kerch strait, to and from the azov sea, in accordance with international law. we welcome ukraine’s approach to seeking justice, such as the ongoing case under un convention on the law of the sea. in addition to the negative consequences of the illegal annexation and the security situation in the region, we deplore systematic restrictions of fundamental freedoms and violations of human rights in the peninsula, notably the rights of the crimean tatars, which have been seriously violated. their media outlets have also been shut down; the activities of the mejlis, their self-governing body, have been banned; and the leaders and members of their community have been persecuted. we will continue to call for the immediate and unconditional release of oleh sentsov, who received the sakharov prize last year and whose picture outside the european parliament reminds the people who walk by every day about his dedication. we also call for the release of many others, such as edem bekirov, oleksandr kolchenko, mykola semena, volodymyr balukh and emir—usein kuku, who have been detained and sentenced by russia in breach of international law. we call for all human rights violations to be investigated and for international human rights actors to have unfettered access to the crimean peninsula. in addition to cases related to the crimean peninsula, we unfortunately continue to see examples of illegally-detained ukrainian citizens being convicted in russia. most recently, pavlo hryb was sentenced to six years imprisonment, and we also expect him to be released. we will also take every opportunity to raise individual cases publicly and bilaterally with our russian interlocutors. faced with russia’s violations of international law, ukraine is not alone. we have stood by our associated partner and continue to do so. we condemned the construction of the kerch bridge and pointed to the deterioration of the security situation in the black sea and the azov sea, including in this forum last october. our position on the illegal annexation of crimea and sevastopol has been reiterated on many occasions, most recently in the high representative’s declaration on behalf of the european union on 17 march. she also publicly addressed this issue during the last foreign affairs council. we also have to take measures to show russia that its actions have a cost. lastly, on 15 march, we added to our list of restrictive measures eight russian individuals who were involved in the use of force at the kerch strait in november. the publication of this decision was made in parallel with similar announcements made by our transatlantic partners in a demonstration of our continued unity. we have also identified possible areas for further eu support for the ukrainian regions severely affected by the russian inspection regime in the azov sea. we are particularly looking into developing railway and road connections in the area, training centres in some ukrainian cities around the azov sea, and support for small- and medium-sized enterprises aiming to diversify the business sector and the industrial structure of this region, for the time being heavily depending on steel production. these violations of international law are happening on our very continent and we, as the european union, have no doubt about where we stand. we stand on the side of international law. we stand on the side of the basic principle that borders must not be changed by force, and most importantly we stand on the side of the people of ukraine. in these years we have invested in ukraine more than in any other country in the world, and ukraine knows that our support is here to stay.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i thank mr hahn for his contribution to this question and for the clarity. we europeans have set out two principles in helsinki: the sovereignty of a country, the freedom to decide with whom to form coalitions and conclude treaties, and the second point is the inviolability of borders, which can never be unilaterally changed. and both of those principles have been violated by russia. it has occupied part of another country, it is at war with another part. and in the azov sea - mr hahn, as you have said - there are also attempts to change things in terms of international law, which is unacceptable. and i think we need to be clear here! this was the first violation of international law in these areas since 1945! that needs to be clearly stated. and it must not become the practice of 21st century europe to accept such violations of international law. for this reason, i think it must be clear that we remain with the sanctions, but that we are open to russia to return to a good dialogue, in the interests of both sides, and in particular in the russian interest, if international law is restored. i think that we have to see here five years after the fact that the people of ukraine in a referendum in the nineties voted by a large majority for a unified ukraine, that the people of ukraine in all elections - in all free elections that have taken place in ukraine - voted by a majority for a european solution, a path to europe, and that therefore there is no legitimacy for russia to claim from the people, either for old historical reasons or because they believe that the people have been oppressed. the only people who have been oppressed are those who were oppressed under stalin, the crimean tatars. and i think that's something that needs to be kept in mind. the european public must be aware of this, in order to ensure that international law retains its importance in europe.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, first i wish to thank the rapporteur, mr benifei, for his report on the situation in certain countries of the mena region since the arab spring. we very much agree with the main point raised by the report, that almost a decade after the beginning of the arab uprising, many of the demands that moved so many people to take to the streets are still largely unanswered in most countries. the demand for better democracies, the demand for social justice, the demand for freedom of expression, in short, the demand for more inclusive systems of governance. this was the core of the arab spring and some countries have come a long way since 2011. i am thinking, in particular, of tunisia, which was the first country to rise up and is still a point of reference for the region. our global strategy for foreign and security policy makes it very clear. stability in this region cannot be guaranteed if these demands are ignored or denied. a resilient state needs a resilient society and a resilient society must feature democracy, trust in institutions and sustainable development. with this in mind, let me emphasise three points. first, no one supports civil society in the maghreb and mashreq as much as we europeans do. not only have we established a forum for civil society of the neighbourhood south, which is now led directly by civil society organisations. eu delegations across the region are in permanent contact with civil society representatives. we are already working, as suggested in the report, to promote constant consultations with them, with the help of dedicated contact points in each delegation. the report also mentions the essential work carried out by the european initiative for democracy and human rights and our work to protect human rights defenders. in this context, as also stressed in the report, our engagement with young people is the core of all our policies. there can be no resilience and no democracy without the full engagement of young people. they must find their place in our societies and find the opportunity to follow their dreams. their voice must be heard. for this reason, we have created a safe platform for the youth of the region, in order to listen to them and help us to define priorities. it’s called young med voices plus and its purpose is for young people to have an open dialogue with decision-makers and to shape the decision we make. about one month ago they had the chance to be part of the 5+5 dialogue of the western mediterranean and to shape the outcomes of the meeting. i would like to stress that we engage with civil society in all contexts, even the most difficult ones, so my second point is about syria. as you know, we recently hosted the third brussels conference on the future of syria and the region and we decided to put syrian civil society at the centre of the conference. we gathered over 400 ngos, engaged everyday on the ground, both in syria and in the rest of the region, with a special focus on women. we offered them a safe space to meet and to engage ideas and we brought their voice to the table of decision-makers. this is something we are truly proud of because syria belongs to the syrians and the only way to end this conflict is to help the syrian people, together with the united nations, build a democratic, inclusive, united and reconciled syria. we all know that the situation in the middle east and north africa is far from ideal and the aspirations of the arab spring have too often been betrayed. the only way to address this state of affairs is to engage relentlessly with all relevant actors. we must continue to engage with civil society, to support them and to help create the space for them to work freely, but we must also engage with governments and advocate the change we would like to see in our region. this would be my final point: human rights and democracy are always at the centre of our engagement with all governments in the region. we, as the european union, always raise the issue of human rights, sometimes in public and sometimes in private, in our meetings with our counterparts. we fully share the spirit of this report. we want to help our friends on the other side of the mediterranean to fulfil their aspiration towards better democracies, more freedom and more social justice. so let me thank you again for your work, and even the more critical aspects, which we take very seriously and we will work to address. we share the same goals and no one is as engaged as the european union to achieve them.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not this is not only an issue that is important for the development of the region there, but also for achieving stability, better living conditions, a situation that also has to lead to us also ensuring security in relation to migration. if there is no economic and social development there, there will be no stable states, and there will be no effective cooperation to combat trafficking in human beings, for example, and to ensure that people do not die in the mediterranean, as in the sahara. i believe that we must do something, and in a very good report, which was very cooperative, mr benifei has put forward proposals which can also make it possible for countries to strengthen each other. trade relations with europe are still the colonial ones, but not with each other. if economic development is to be achieved there, then perhaps we should also, commissioner, encourage more cross-border cooperation in infrastructure, to strengthen trade relations in such a region in a way that allows us to achieve better political and economic development in these countries, or vice versa, to achieve improvement. i think that's our immediate neighbour, that's the countries that share the mare nostrum, the mediterranean, with us. we need cooperation here, and that is why i think it is important that we make a great effort here, also in our own interest, to strengthen these countries in such a way that the people there will be better off, which is a prerequisite for peace in the mediterranean and around the mediterranean here too, and for consolidating democracy and the rule of law in these countries too.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. that is your decision, of course, and it must be respected. i would just like to point out that rule 175 also states that a decision on whether to refer amendments back to parliament can be taken in committee by a third of the committee members. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. so the problem will not be solved by the transport committee in the form you want it to be. it's only been postponed a week, but at the end of the day, it's gonna stay the same.
president of the european council. – mr president, the spring european council discussed the economic situation in europe in light of increasing global competition. the leaders agreed that a strong economic base is key to europe’s prosperity and to our role on the world stage. consequently, we have taken a number of initiatives. first, the european council agreed that the single market should be further deepened and strengthened, with particular emphasis on the digital and service economy. unjustified barriers must be removed, and new barriers must not be created. the commission has been invited to develop, by march 2020, a long—term action plan for better implementation and enforcement of the single market rules. second, we discussed how to address the challenges faced by european industry. given its significance for millions of jobs in europe, the commission has been invited to present a vision of the eu’s industrial future, including concrete measures. third, the eu needs to further develop its digital economy, with a special focus on data and artificial intelligence. in this context, we supported a concerted approach on the security of 5g networks. yesterday, the commission put forward a recommendation in this area. last but not least, trade. the european council will continue to promote an ambitious and balanced free trade agenda that ensures a level playing field. the leaders called to resume the discussion on the public procurement instrument, as well as to pursue rapid implementation of all the elements of the us-eu joint statement of 25 july 2018. we also discussed our economic relations with china. apart from next month’s eu-china summit, there are also other meetings and summits with the chinese leaders. therefore, it was crucially important to agree a coordinated, european approach. we worked out a positive stance that offers ambitious cooperation on bilateral and global issues, including trade. we both have a key economic interest in maintaining significant trade flows, which are possible thanks to the rules-based trading system. however, for this system to continue to operate, it needs to be quickly updated. for the eu, this means serious reform of the wto that would cover industrial subsidies, as a priority. we want to persuade china to address this, and i am convinced that we shouldn’t give up. as regards bilateral issues, we would like to finalise talks on the investment agreement already next year. we will discuss all of this with china at the upcoming summit. and, of course, i can’t imagine not having human rights on the agenda. i may be old—fashioned but i still think that human rights are at least as important as trade. (applause) additionally, leaders are determined to tackle climate change. despite differences, it is clear how urgent the matter is, and the leaders will come back to this in june. in the meantime, we have instructed ministers to step up work on the eu’s long—term climate strategy in order to implement the goals set down by the paris agreement. turning to brexit, as requested by prime minister may, the european council decided to approve the so-called ‘strasbourg agreement’. leaders also considered the uk’s request for a short extension of the article 50 period. our decision on extension envisages two scenarios. first, if the withdrawal agreement is passed by the house of commons this week, the european council agreed to a technical extension until 22 may. second, if the withdrawal agreement is not approved by the house of commons this week, the european council agreed to an extension until 12 april, while expecting the united kingdom to indicate a way forward. as i said after the european council, 12 april is a key date in terms of the uk deciding whether to hold european parliament elections. 12 april is the new cliff—edge date. before that day, the uk still has a choice of a deal, no deal, a long extension or revoking article 50. here, let me make one personal remark to the members of this parliament. before the european council, i said that we should be open to a long extension if the uk wishes to rethink its brexit strategy, which would of course mean the uk’s participation in the european parliament elections. then there were voices saying that this would be harmful or inconvenient to some of you. let me be clear: such thinking is unacceptable. you cannot betray the six million people who signed the petition to revoke article 50, the one million people who marched for a people’s vote, or the increasing majority of people who want to remain in the european union. they may feel that they are not sufficiently represented by the uk parliament, but they must feel that they are represented by you in this chamber because they are europeans. (applause)
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have an eventful week ahead of us, which does not encourage me to comment on the way things are going. i shall not go back to last week's european council, whose president has just elegantly presented all the conclusions. we had a lot of discussions about china, which turned out to be less complicated than the debates about britain. i was telling some of you that britain is a riddle that would make the sphinx look like a child's play. we'll see how things develop this week. as i said, we talked a lot about china. the commission presented a 'chinese strategy' on 12 march. the document was welcomed. no head of state or government has spoken out against the broad lines of this strategy, which we have submitted to the european council for consideration. mrs merkel and i had the opportunity yesterday, at the invitation of president macron, to meet the chinese president. we have been very clear: we want to make it clear to europe and china that we are strategic partners, competitors and rivals. i noticed during some of our interviews that our chinese friends don't like the word "rival". but that's a compliment! we're rivals and competitors. therefore, the aim is to make europe appear not as a europe of choice but as an open europe, and the immediate consequence is that we demand the right for european companies to operate under normal conditions of competition in china, just as china can submit its proposals to the europeans without any limitations. we respect china, but we also want china to respect us and our trade relations are based on total reciprocity. the most urgent thing now is to reach an agreement on investment as quickly as possible. we demand that china respect our geographical indications and we also want the china-eu working group on wto reform to move forward quickly and not in a hurry. on brexit, i will say nothing because everything has been said.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, thank you so much first of all for the good decision on brexit, mr tusk. the decision of the council was a good decision. first of all because the principle was included that there is no prolongation without the clarification that we need from our british friends – more clarity about what they want to achieve. we also created certainty for the 440 million europeans on the question of the european elections, i.e. legal certainty or political certainty. i want to pick up on your general remark about those who are fighting for a second referendum, those who are fighting for staying inside of the european union. we are on their side; we want them to be successful and wish them all the best, but for the moment we still have the situation that great britain wants to leave the european union. that’s the legal situation at the moment. having this in mind, it’s also important to explain to our citizens why a country which is leaving the european union should have a major say in the future of european union. so that is also one of the questions on the table which we have to answer to our citizens. that’s why the council’s decision to ask for clarity and for no prolongation without clarification was a good step, and we wish now to all our friends in the house of commons good luck. hopefully they can manage it in a better way than the government did in the last month. the options are on the table. the options are clear, clearly described, and they have to choose now, so let’s see. the second thing is about economy, and there i want to share with you that we, as the epp, fully support the principles of strengthening our economy, investing in the single market, investing in trade and investing in innovation. there is no doubt about this. the priority is the chinese question, which is on the table in the ongoing discussions about and preparations for the summit, and i’m really grateful that we all share the same basic starting point. that means that the cooperation with china must be based on principles, on values – on what we believe in. there is a competition going on, on the political systems, on the way we think as a society, on how we organise a society, and on what are the basic values of a society. that’s why that must always be the starting point for our dialogue with china. the second thing we as epp believe in is a pragmatic approach on climate change. china is still committed to the paris agreement, so they are on our side. on the free trade principle, china is a partner for us; they are committed to free trade. so that’s why we share a pragmatic approach towards a chinese relationship. but the third point is also important: we shouldn’t be naive, and that means defining and protecting our key industries in the european union. we also think, as the epp, that we have to rethink our competition law in today’s european union. establishing, for the future, some kind of european ‘champions’ to adapt to the global dimension of competition in our legislation is also key issue. ich möchte noch eine letzte frage ansprechen, nämlich die frage der grundrechte in der europäischen union. herr präsident, sehr geehrter herr tusk, wir haben seit einigen monaten jetzt die artikel-7-fragen mit polen und ungarn auf dem tisch liegen, vom parlament und von der kommission angestoßen. bisher gab es keine gelegenheit, im rat über diese vorgänge zu reden. ich bedauere es sehr, dass dazu bisher keine gelegenheit war. in meiner partei – das haben sie vielleicht, das haben viele mitbekommen – hatten wir sehr intensive debatten über diese frage. wir haben entschieden, fidesz, die ungarische regierungspartei, zu suspendieren, ihr alle mitgliedsrechte in der evp zu entziehen und damit das signal zu setzen, dass es nicht unser weg ist, der in ungarn gegangen wird. wir haben auch den artikel 7 hier im parlament als evp mehrheitlich unterstützt. und deswegen hätte ich schon die bitte, dass endlich mal auch im rat über diese fragen gesprochen wird, dass das endlich mal thematisiert wird – öffentlich! dass sich staats- und regierungschefs gegenseitig attackieren, ist das eine, aber sich an einen tisch zu setzen und mal intern offen darüber zu reden, ist das andere. deswegen hätte ich die bitte, dass das gemacht wird. genauso, wie wir uns als parteien darum kümmern – die liberalen, die sozialdemokraten mit den rumänischen freunden und so weiter, wir in der evp mit unseren fragen –, das ist der richtige ansatz, dass wir uns den themen zuwenden und auch entscheidungen fällen, wenn es denn notwendig ist. ich würde mir wünschen, dass wir darüber hinaus auch einen weiteren schritt gehen. wir erleben beim artikel 7, dass er eben nicht wirkmächtig ist, dass er nicht zu schnellen ergebnissen führt, was wir uns alle wünschen. und deswegen würde ich mir wünschen, dass wir jetzt den nächsten schritt gehen, nämlich einen verbindlichen rule-of-law-mechanismus der europäischen union installieren, so wie es dieses haus bereits vorgeschlagen hat – viele kollegen haben daran gearbeitet –, dass wir einen verbindlichen mechanismus aufbauen, der unabhängigkeit bei der bewertung sicherstellt, der sicherstellt, dass regelmäßig – vielleicht jährlich – ein bericht vorgelegt wird, und der sicherstellt, dass nicht nur mittel- und osteuropäische staaten geprüft werden, sondern die gesamte europäische union bei den grundrechten in den fokus genommen wird. wir brauchen dann ein quasi automatisches verfahren, dass die abweichungen dem eugh vorgelegt werden. und ich würde auch für diesen mechanismus vorschlagen, dass zukünftig klargestellt wird, dass er sanktionsbewehrt ist, sprich die fonds auch dafür verwendet werden, um die rechte europas durchzusetzen. wir können mit china nur überzeugend in den wettbewerb der systeme treten, in den überzeugenden wettbewerb der grundrechte treten, wenn wir das im inneren der europäischen union mit leben erfüllen und diese werte in die zukunft führen. und deswegen, herr ratspräsident, sehr geehrter herr tusk: ich hätte die bitte, dieses thema jetzt endlich mal auf die tagesordnung des europäischen rates zu nehmen, dass über die fälle, die wir in europa haben, auch dort gesprochen wird. (beifall)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have two days left - at least two days left - until the original brexit date. two days. president tusk, it was right that the european council took precautions in this situation and drew the line to prevent the worst. but let me ask you this today, two days before the original planned departure date. i'm going to the brexiteers: when will you have the decency to apologize to the british people for all that you have done to them in the last two years? when will you have the decency to explain that you don't know what you are doing, ... (applause)... that you have created a situation with lies and all kinds of insinuations from which you don't know how to get out, where you know exactly: ten percent of the economy will collapse, and you're lying to the people, and you don't know how to move forward. get back control of your stability, get back control of your lies, and apologize to the british people for what you did during the last years. this is my main message today. many thanks to president tusk, many thanks for what you did in defence of european citizenship. this was a very honourable move, and this is what has to be said here. we are europeans, and no one should cheat the british people of their ability to continue to participate in the shaping of europe until there is a withdrawal. i'm pretty well convinced. if the government is not able to deliver, if the situation remains blocked, then there is only one chance: ask the people. ask the people. yes, i know why you shy away from that. it is because you are afraid of everything happening on london's streets. afraid to death because you can't stand it anymore. this will be the solution and the british people will tell you where to go. they, and no one else, are the real sovereigns in this situation. let me say this: i believe that, of course, the developments in the united kingdom overshadow many things that we urgently need to regulate. i believe that the next summit on 9 may will have to deal with the great need to restart the economic upswing in europe. there must be a shift towards a sustainable economy, an economy that protects the planet, safeguards its resources and offers all people a fair chance to participate. that's going to have to be our agenda. and only if we are confident, only if we are strong, we will also overcome the situation with china. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but without self-confidence, without a uniform, clear, self-confident line, the european model will not be defendable. we shall be participating in this, and my group stands for it. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is also proposing to extend the in fact, we have long been tired of having the same discussions over and over again, of not getting concrete answers to what is really going to happen and how we can get out of this dilemma for which there are really different causes . and if we do, it will be out of respect for the people who voted in a referendum to leave the eu. we do so with full respect for the people who demonstrated in london this weekend. we do it with all due respect to the people who signed an online petition. and we do so with full respect for the people who will be massively affected by the consequences of brexit in the uk, in ireland, in the eu. we are also doing so out of respect for the european house, whose election is imminent. and we would, of course, like to see voters send representatives to the upper house. but that only makes sense if they are here for a long time: to give a mandate for six months, for a quarter of a year, is relatively pointless. we do it with all due respect to the people who are waiting for answers. and i ask you, and in particular mr tusk and mr juncker, to focus even more on the rights of people who, after a disorderly brexit, would only have the status of third country nationals the day after, that we protect their lives, protect their security, protect their family members. and i also say to you: we must act together in respect also - and i emphasize this deliberately - of the people of ireland, in the republic and in northern ireland. and if there is no solution between leaving the customs union, leaving the single market, defending the good friday agreement in all its parts, avoiding a hard border, then i would also say that it is part of our respect that we have to show to the people of ireland that if they should demand and prepare a referendum on the unity of their island, we will support them.
madam president, nobody wants to punish the british people. nobody wants to humiliate them. we would like to have them in the european union; they were always very good partners. but now, to use the argument that we want to punish and humiliate them, it shows that the brexiteers in this house have lost any other argument and want to get support with this argumentation of punishment. i think we are ready to come to a proper deal on the basis of the withdrawal agreement, and we can do something on a political declaration. aber ich glaube, dass es wichtig ist, dass nun das house of commons zu einer entscheidung kommt. london muss mit london reden, sie müssen unter sich eine einigung erzielen. das ist der weg. das ist auch der weg, der britischen bevölkerung eine bessere zukunft zu geben. ich meine, dass es aus diesem grunde unbedingt notwendig ist, dass dies jetzt endgültig entschieden wird, wie der europäische rat den spielraum eröffnet hat, oder dass wir dann eine lange verlängerung haben, wenn das nicht möglich ist – immer auf der basis des withdrawal agreements, dass nicht neu verhandelt werden kann. aber dann, wenn ein parlament nicht entscheidungsfähig ist, soll das parlament die entscheidung dem volke geben, durch neuwahl oder durch referendum. das ist der normale demokratische weg. (beifall)
i have to say, madam president, on 19 march, the mare jonio was seized in italy, and some of its crew - as on the iuventa - are threatened with up to twenty years in prison for rescuing people. in the council, not a word. nor is there any mention of the reports by the un or the women's refugee commission on the daily torture and rape, including in the so-called official camps in libya. but we cannot and will not remain silent when member states trample on our humanitarian and christian values, when they refuse to accept their responsibilities. they look the other way when people die, mr. tusk doesn't listen, and they punish the rescuers. i hope you will end the blockade in the council. support the sea rescue! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. for it is not the saving of men that is to be punished, but the contemptuous refusal of help.
i have to say, madam president, the european summit was rightly concerned not only with brexit, and it is also noticeable how much time and energy this debate takes away from other important issues on the agenda, namely climate protection and dealing with world power china. the two go together: china is a partner in climate action, but china is also a competitor in climate technology. china has a clear strategy for developing new technologies. you're the leader in solar cells for car batteries. and i ask myself: where is the european union? do we have a strategy for climate technologies? we have an industrial policy in this area for storage technologies, for the production of our own car batteries, for new technologies for the raw materials industry, for the production of steel, cement, even basic chemicals. we don't have all that, and we need to work on that. and china -- we're going to have the summit -- is a partner, but it's also a real competitor to the system, and the ten points are real landmarks for a new approach. we must also protect ourselves without being protectionist.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i listened to the debate here. i think we have a lot of pharisees in this house, and some of them are high pharisees. it is pointed out to the british, but it is this house and this council that have driven the british out. the commission has been very careful to ensure that the european parliament is not left in the lurch. if this had been discussed and cameron had received a response, brexit would have been a very different matter. because it was the free movement that made the british vote for brexit. that's something to remember. if i hear these pharisaic accusations here - yes, mr bullmann, you are included with your accusations and also mr guy verhofstadt - one really cannot bear the high horse these gentlemen are riding! the problem in britain is that they have to choose between a second-class membership and the outbreak of the northern ireland conflict. that's the problem! if they didn't have the northern ireland problem, they would. but they have a dilemma they can't get out of. they won't come out! the british will never accept second-class membership, not being able to decide, not being able to pay money, having to accept the ecj and not having a free hand in free trade agreements. that is why it is right and we should support them to have another referendum. and then this house and the council should say: britons, we accept your terms, we discuss the principle. mr president, you let someone speak for two minutes. let me say one last thing. we must tell the british that they are welcome. we must tell the british people that they have a right to regulate their affairs, which really concern them, in a way that they are satisfied with. then they come back.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to take up what my two previous speakers have mentioned, namely the fact that we are indeed facing a situation on european motorways which is largely unbearable. it is no longer sustainable, not only for those countries and regions which are no longer able to manage their infrastructure, but also for those who have to work on the streets every day, far from home and far from their families. this, of course, contributes to the fact that this profession is no longer as lucrative, as interesting. it's not always about the money. if you look at the average earnings, especially of the drivers in south-eastern europe, they are above average. but there's still a shortage of drivers there, too. so it can't just be about the money. it has to do with the conditions being bad, the conditions being bad. if you're away for three months, then you're home for a month, then you're away for almost three months, you're going to end up not wanting to do this job. it was therefore right that the european commission introduced this mobility package i. and as my two colleagues have rightly pointed out, we are trying to shape this sector in europe in such a way that we first of all maintain this single market, that access is possible, but at the same time that the few who have built their business models solely on social dumping are ultimately deprived of the basis and the foundation. we have the situation that we voted here in parliament last july and all three dossiers were rejected. and since almost a year has passed since then, ladies and gentlemen, we have of course dealt with this subject together. we have had inter-group talks and have finally reached a compromise here. of course, compromises are decisions that do not please everyone. yes, but that's why it's a compromise. it was therefore fortunate that after 3 december, when the council reached a general approach, so to speak, by a majority decision, we were able to take a stand on this basis and formulate solutions. we brought them in. the fact that now, through various management measures - i call them tricks, i'm sorry - they are trying to undermine them, that's just the way it is. but the fact is that this legislation is needed. we have hundreds of thousands of drivers waiting for it. we have companies that are finally dealing properly with their people, who are serious entrepreneurs, who are also waiting for this legislation. what would happen if this legislation did not take place? then we have this wild west state with lots of gray areas on the streets. we are in danger - and this has already been announced - of unilateral action by several member states, which will in turn be called for by the european commission in the aftermath. we therefore call once again for support for this compromise. what's in my file on market access and sabotage? we have tried to eliminate the weaknesses of the current legislation, which purports to allow three operations in seven days. we tried to put this on a new footing because it was just not feasible to control everything with the security agencies. we have found a solution which is also supported by the eastern european countries. in sum, the whole thing is a good approach which deserves to be successfully decided in the end.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to enjoy the benefits of the single market. we received 1 600 amendments on monday, and we had two hours to react to them because the deadline for new amendments had already expired by then. i have never seen such a procedure in 15 years in this parliament. this is undemocratic to the core! what's the problem if we vote next week? we want to sit down and compromise, of course. but the other shadow reporters weren't involved at all. that is why it is right that we do not decide today. i don't want to read 1,600 petitions in two hours and have to respond to them. that is undemocratic and unworthy of a parliament.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i have two specific questions for my colleague. firstly, when you talk so passionately about the freedom of the internal market in your speech, do you mean by 'freedom of the internal market' that it should be a single market free of social rules? secondly, i would like to know: if you point out that the elections are imminent, how long should we actually debate such legislation until it is finally ready for a decision? another question: what are we elected for if not to improve working conditions? i have spoken to many romanian and polish drivers at german railway stations: the working conditions are underground.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. ladies and gentlemen, i just want to ask the question because the debate now sounds as if the gentlemen who have just spoken had not been there in the last weeks and months: you and mrs łukacijewska were my shadow rapporteurs! we have agreed this compromise jointly with mr telička and mrs kyllönen! what's this action? you were there! first you were for it, then suddenly you were against it! that's the truth.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. if we misinterpret or misapply our business rules, i get anxious and scared. but now to the point. a few days ago i was again in one of the truck parks along the a4 motorway in germany and i had the opportunity to meet drivers from different countries, but mainly from poland and romania. their statements were almost identical. first, they feel exploited. they dare not ask their bosses for their minimum wage or for their commuting allowance for fear of losing their jobs. secondly, they spend their weekly rest periods in inhuman conditions. thirdly, they know about the letterbox companies in their countries of origin and the illegal cabotage operations that distort competition. and fourthly, they want european regulations that are unbureaucratic and controllable. i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, not to close your eyes to reality. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. listen to the base!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the point is that a lot of goods are transported in the internal market every day, and a lot of them by road. and that's what this is about. firstly, we want to ensure the safety of truck drivers, which is why we must observe driving and rest periods. secondly, we want decent working conditions, and there are the letterbox companies, which we have already discussed, which do not offer them. there are many companies that treat their drivers well, provide good conditions, even good cabs, but not all. and we want the drivers all over europe to be really good. that's what this case is about. we also have to bear in mind that there are of course different ideas and different regions in europe and that the same wage cannot be paid everywhere. but we want to try to improve conditions for everyone - especially because we also have a shortage of truck drivers - to improve conditions. and then, lastly, i regret that the bus drivers are threatening to go a little overboard. we simply need different rules for buses than for lorry drivers, because it is not the same whether you are transporting goods or people. and i hope we can find a solution to that, too.
i have to say, madam president, the commission is the main reason why we are under time pressure today, because for two years juncker and timmermans have excluded the commissioner. she was gonna bring it up, so we'd have more time. my second point is, of course, control. a law without controls - there is no need for a law. but we have the tachograph, which was present 15 years ago. the commission has proposed that it be made compulsory in 2036. thank god the council said no, it has to be 2024 already. so this has to happen fast. without control, the law is useless. and we know that there's a lot of fraud on the streets, which puts security at risk. that's why we need the tachograph as soon as possible, preferably by 2022.
rapporteur. – madam president, i think the debate in the last one—and—a—half hours has showed us, once again, the necessity of a european-wide solution. i can assure all my colleagues within this house that i will use the next days once again to find a solution. i invite all my colleagues to come together and to be open to my proposals. once again, we have found proper compromises which may not be acceptable for some colleagues, but we will try once again. i can assure you, as rapporteur and as coordinator for the socialist group, that i will try to find a compromise in the end. but what we have to do and what we have to deliver is that we have to guarantee that the legislation will be fixed within this term. we have to deliver a proper legislation that the drivers, and in particular the honest companies, deserve. this is our duty, and we have to do that. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the plastic pollution of the world's oceans is a huge problem. there's this plastic bubble in the pacific that's already five times the size of my home country of germany, and that's why we need to act urgently. we need a ban wherever an equivalent substitute is possible. this is the case, for example, with plastic plates, where there are, as a substitute, natural cardboard plates, preferably washable plates, which can be used several times. and where the substitution option is not yet so mature, there is the reduction strategy. i would have also been in favour of making the reduction targets a little clearer, but we must now appeal to the member states to make them as strict as possible. i would like to thank all those who have helped: frédérique ries, of course, but in the epp, above all karl-heinz florenz and the president of the council, elisabeth köstinger, who also helped us to achieve this result by her skillful negotiation. i am glad that we have not overshot the mark in one respect: there have been proposals from the greens to ban the taking-off of balloons, and i think that would have been disproportionate. we should also focus on innovation, on new products, but not spoil the fun for people. i agree with frédérique ries that new, further steps are needed in the next period: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the requirements of the environment. but today it is a very, very important first step: we are strengthening the circular economy, we are doing something to prevent marine pollution, and i have rarely seen citizens so positively reacting to environmental legislation, and that is why we should adopt it immediately by a very large majority. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for asking! i can make that clear. i think we should, indeed, rely on alternatives and on technology. and that warning would have meant that we want to stop balloons from going up at weddings, at children's birthdays and so on. and i think that's going too far. the european union has nothing to do with it. we should be looking at innovation, not prohibition. and we should not send the message from this parliament that we want to spoil the fun for people.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have a different view from mrs gardini. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the use of single-use plastics in the community. you've seen that there's a lot of support in the population for what we're doing here. and it is also something visible in the environmental policy of the european union. in fact, we are also supposed to promote this during the european elections. this is not populism, but it is a visible contribution that we are trying to eliminate the waste and pollution of the environment. even though most of this plastic waste in the oceans comes from other continents, it is still right that we as europe, as the european union, set a good example. it's never illegal to go there first. and in the north sea, the baltic sea and the mediterranean, large quantities of these disposable products end up in the sea. i believe that the directive also contributes to a better awareness that the rapid disposal must simply be stopped. we need products that last longer, not these disposable products that are thrown away after a single use. i also see that we have a lot to do for packaging design. we need recyclable plastic materials and not this mixed pickles, which makes these big problems in recycling later. and i also think it's right that the manufacturers take responsibility. so a good piece of environmental policy in the european union in this parliamentary term.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i ask you: are you familiar with the world map of plastic bans, and are you aware, for example, that india, a country with more people than the european union, has long ago passed legislation similar to what we probably accept today?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have to throw a little water on the fire, because while we accept the compromise, we cannot be proud of it. we now have a limit for cadmium of 60 milligrams. but if you think about what we started with as a parliament, we wanted 40 and then 20. there has been a blockage in the council, partly because of massive economic interests, and that is why we now have a weak compromise, where 60 milligrams is now set as the limit. we cannot be satisfied with that, because we have to realise that what goes into the soil as fertiliser will eventually end up in food in the long term. that is why we cannot be satisfied with this compromise. so we are glad that the commission will have to review this in a few years' time and then we will hopefully come up with more ambitious targets. we are not going to vote for the report, but we are going to vote for the report, and we are going to vote for the report, and we are going to vote for the report. but we also have to be clear: the council's blockade was anything but a good thing. and that's why it's the council's fault that we haven't been more ambitious. i would also like to point out that cooperation between the imco committee and the envi committee on this point has not always been straightforward. we have spent three years on a debate which we can now conclude. but i stress again: this can only be the beginning, because in the end we really have to get to the 20 milligram limit and we cannot stop at 60 now.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the demand for healthy food from organic farms is growing steadily, and for good reason: people are afraid of being poisoned by contaminated food. cadmium in fertilisers can cause serious illness and even death. the current exposure to cadmium in the eu is higher than the human body can tolerate. that must be noted! anything above the 20 mg/kg limit for cadmium must be rejected for health reasons. the efsa recommendations, which identify the application of phosphate fertilisers as the main cause of cadmium pollution of soils, can no longer be ignored. all this information has not prevented certain circles in this house from once again following the wishes of the chemical and agricultural lobbies. it is a missed opportunity to do something about soil pollution and to improve consumer safety. so i am not so happy with the report.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. almost three years ago the commission proposed that kosovo be exempted from the visa requirement, because even then the commission was convinced that kosovo would meet the final conditions for visa liberalisation in time. and that this has actually happened, the commission confirmed last july. and yet we are not voting on a trilogue result today. the roadmap for visa liberalisation was presented to kosovo four years after the other states in the region, and some member states are still delaying and blocking the negotiations. this is isolating kosovo and slowing down european integration. how are we to explain to the people there that the eu is suddenly throwing out more conditions after the country has already met all the criteria for visa liberalisation? this attitude not only contributes to the eu's loss of credibility with the kosovar population and possibly beyond. the promises we make to kosovo must be kept. yes, some eu member states have not recognised kosovo as a state. but visa liberalization does not require recognition by the state, it simply requires recognition of travel documents, which are already very secure. we cannot put up with kosovo any longer. the conditions for visa liberalisation are in place, parliament has a clear position and it is high time that the council, which is not here again, abandoned its blockade so that the eu as a whole can keep its word.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to start with mrs jäätteenmäki and continue: transparency and the will to save are also important for us when it comes to parliament's budget. in general, of course, we think that we also need a budget with which parliament can work well. we want to do good work, and we need the resources to do it. so far parliament has always tried to stick to having only two per cent, so that it can say - and do - that we want to spend the most money on european citizens and on good programmes and, of course, not just on its own interests. this is a correct idea in principle, but we must all be able to work properly here, and that means - and i want to stress this again - that there must also be an internal balance between the interests of the political groups, of us members of parliament, but also of the administration. if you have too much tension in this system, it's just going to get you in trouble, so you have to find a good balance there, too. but i am also of the opinion that, despite all the ambitions that parliament can formulate about the money we need, we should, for example, in the case of translation services - and this is not against women translators - if we do not need certain languages, we should not register them, and that would save money. the same is true when you travel. we have now become accustomed, for good reasons, not to take all those who might be interested, but to concentrate our delegation trips on certain colleagues and then to be very efficient. and short-haul business flights don't always have to be. that's what we've been promoting for years. so there are certainly savings to be made. and yet, hopefully, we'll have enough money to do good work.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to warmly thank the rapporteur, mr dantin, and the shadow rapporteurs for the hard work done on the proposal for a revised drinking water directive. the commission welcomes the efforts and the fact that parliament’s amendments are aligned with the main elements of our proposal. at the same time, i regret that due to the slow progress in council, it was not possible to reach an interinstitutional agreement before the european elections. i would like to recall that the main objective of our proposal is to ensure the safety of drinking water in the european union for the 21st century. we should be proud that today most people living in the european union enjoy drinking water of the highest standard worldwide. with our proposal we will be able to maintain, and even improve, the situation with stricter and more appropriate limit values. last week, on 22 march, we commemorated world water day with the theme ‘leaving no one behind’. our vision of europe is that of an inclusive society, which leaves no one behind. the obligation in the revised drinking water directive to provide the most vulnerable amongst us with access to clean water pursues this vision. it is the result of the first ever successful european citizens’ initiative – the right to water initiative – supported by over 1.8 million people and as such a tangible example of how the commission does listen to european union citizens’ concerns. the proposal would improve the situation of about two million people in the european union. the commission proposal on access to water is also an important step towards achieving sustainable development goal 6. i warmly welcome the strong support from parliament to ensure access for all. this support is important in view of the future discussions between the two co-legislators. as you are aware, the environment council agreed on a general approach on 5 march. in their compromise text, a fragile equilibrium was found, with very limited requirements on access to water. some member states indeed were opposed to access to water being regulated at european level. on the contrary, i know that the majority of the european parliament, which is the house of the european citizens, wants it to be regulated. furthermore, the council proposal for an article 10a, on materials in contact with water, raises several concerns for the commission. therefore, while reserving its position for the interinstitutional negotiations, the commission states that it intends to further analyse and assess the concerns on this article and will make the results known to the co-legislators in due time. i can assure you that the commission is committed and will do its utmost to support the next european parliament as well as the incoming finnish and croatian presidencies, so that they can start negotiations as soon as possible. let me also underline that, as an honest broker in the negotiations, the commission will uphold the important objectives of this proposal, which i believe we all share. finally let me recall that safe drinking water is crucial for european citizens. the solutions we propose will bring positive change to their daily lives. i therefore call on parliament to support the commission’s ambition to protect even better the health of our citizens, by proposing strict health standards and by ensuring that they have better access to water.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. drinking water is the most controlled food in the european union. we are also obliged to keep up with the latest scientific developments, and the european commission's proposal makes drinking water even safer. the epp supports this effort, but we have always stressed during the procedure that the whole thing must also be manageable, especially for small water utilities, and that in the end the beneficiaries of the proposal should not be the companies that bring analytical methods to the market, but that this is also financially viable for the consumers who have to pay for it in the end. this is why we need a sensible approach that improves safety but keeps costs within the bounds - especially for small waterworks. the big issue is the issue of access to water. i personally think it is a very good idea that we have free access to drinking water in as many places as possible in europe - in public facilities, in public places - and i also think it is a good idea that we have free drinking water in cafes and restaurants. this is good for the citizens and we would also be taking the citizens' initiative into account. it saves resources. we have mineral water that is often hauled for many hundreds of miles through the area. it costs fuel, it causes other environmental problems. and as a doctor, i have to say, it's not necessarily advisable to drink mineral water all day long. tap water is also recommended for medical reasons. but not everything that we personally think is good, and not everything that is somehow a good idea, should be centrally prescribed by the european union in every corner of the european union. there is also the question of subsidiarity. the epp therefore believes that the compromise reached by the council is very reasonable and that we should also approach it in the trilogue negotiations. incentives, awareness-raising - this is a way of achieving this goal, perhaps better than telling the hosts throughout the european union what to do. this could also strengthen anti-european tendencies. that is why we should support the idea here, but not go too rigidly legislative. in conclusion, i would like to thank michel dantin very much. i am sorry to say that he will no longer be a candidate for the european parliament. he's done great work on many cases and on this one. dear michel, thank you for your work and good luck for your future!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission has presented the proposal for a revision of the drinking water directive in response to the first successful european citizens' initiative right2water. my party, the free voters, has traditionally advocated for greater civic participation. i therefore feel particularly concerned that we take the requests from citizens' initiatives seriously and that we respond to them quickly and comprehensively. i think that we have acted accordingly as a parliament. despite the technical and political complexities, we presented our report in october. we were ready to negotiate with the council in the trilogue. the council, on the other hand, has unfortunately allowed itself so much time that we cannot adopt the directive in time for the end of the legislative period. this is a lost opportunity. we must therefore complete our report at first reading tomorrow. we are sending a signal to the citizens that for us, civic participation is not just a figure of speech, but a reality. we are also making good proposals in our report. for example, i'm proud that we're offering a solution to how we can deal with microplastics and other new pollutants in drinking water in the future. this is how we build confidence in the quality of the water. we also make suggestions to ensure that the new risk-based approach does not become a burden for established structures such as municipal water suppliers in germany or micro-supply companies in the alpine region and other regions. i hope we can record these achievements for the next parliament's negotiations tomorrow. i would like to thank rapporteur michel dantin and the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation. drinking water is the most researched food and can be safely drunk from the tap in the eu, ladies and gentlemen.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the debate on the creation of interoperability of european databases is not purely technical. no, this is about high-level policy issues. the european data protection supervisor has warned us that such a step marks a point of no return. the european data protection board then known as the article 29 working party also expressed concerns. but why do our own experts warn against it? in data protection law, there is the principle of purpose limitation. it's to prevent a state that knows everything about us from putting that information together in a central way. but that is precisely what we are creating when we introduce the so-called cir with the proposed interoperability. the cir is a central identity register to which various authorities have access. we are creating a kind of monster database, which not only includes criminals, but also uneducated citizens. now, we often hear the argument that we have a problem with multiple identities. the example of the berlin christmas market bomber, anis amri, is often cited, especially in conservative circles. let me make this clear once and for all: amri has been well known to the authorities for years, he has been watched, and what exactly went wrong in the authorities' coordination in the run-up to this assassination is now being worked out by a committee of inquiry. but i'm sure that a lack of connection between his identities was not the problem. apart from the fact that we are at a point of no return in terms of data protection, there are also security aspects. such a central identity repository containing personal biometric data of a huge number of individuals is a worthwhile target for hackers who, by targeting the cir, could take down a multitude of databases and related services, and i cannot imagine the impact of a data leak. unfortunately, it quickly became clear during the negotiations that there would be an outcome that we could not agree with. it is likely that this will create unnecessary and expensive new infrastructure, which will benefit above all the companies that sell the hardware and software. we are also accepting the disadvantages of data protection and are moving closer to the ideal of a surveillance state. we cannot support this as the greens/efa group and will therefore vote against the interoperability package.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not let us recall the amri case, where the security services failed miserably, not because of any multiple identification or multiple identities, but because the constitutional guard gave up monitoring amri. that was the point! what happened? what has happened is that instead of a european search portal - which we could somehow understand, so that suspects and offenders can be identified more quickly - we now have four databases in sight - in addition to the mentioned biometric comparison portal, the common identity memory, the data memory for multiple identities. if anyone is still talking about technical interoperability, i have to be quite frank, they are lying! the aim here is to remove the purpose limitation of the linked databases. and the edps, like my predecessor, says that this is a point of no return. once the purpose is removed, it is in the bucket, then it is gone, so to speak and thus also the data of the citizens an easy prey for the state, which can monitor comprehensively. the fact is that if you add eurodac as the next database, you will be throwing migration and crime into the same pot. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. and this is the beginning of biometric registration and control of people, first of third countries and tomorrow of all of us. welcome to the beautiful new world.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you to everyone who has spoken, for your engagement on these issues. they obviously raise in some cases deeply-held feelings. we did try and address those issues, as i think has been recognised by, for example, the last speaker, mr lópez aguilar, and earlier by mr deprez. we did try and address some of the issues that have been raised by some of the groups this evening. i think that the outcome, strengthened by the scrutiny and input at the european parliament, is a good outcome. it is supported in the council, so it isn’t against the member states. but most importantly for me, it is strongly supported by those on the front line: the policemen, the border guards and the immigration officers, who we need to help to do their job, which is to keep us safe.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next partsession.
the next item is the debate on the report by angelika niebler, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on preventive restructuring frameworks, second chance and measures to increase the efficiency of restructuring, insolvency and discharge procedures and amending directive 2012/30/eu (com (2016) 0723 - c8-0475/2016 - 2016/0359 (cod)) (a8-0269/2018).
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their help in the deliberations on this dossier. the preventive restructuring and second chance directive is a milestone in promoting entrepreneurship in the european union. we have a situation in europe where every year 200,000 companies have to declare bankruptcy, 1.7 million jobs are lost as a result. and remember, 50 percent of all businesses that are founded in europe do not survive five years. i would like to say that we must encourage entrepreneurship, encourage the entrepreneurial spirit, and if we now facilitate the restructuring of companies that are in financial difficulty, then we are on the right track. and while we also support our start-ups, when they may not have been as successful in their first venture, their first attempt, we have also done something to prevent failure from being perceived as a stigma, as is often the case in the european union. we need to make sure that this is part of the learning curve when companies or young people go into business. the starting point for this dossier was difficult: we have very different rules in 28 member states as regards restructuring. we have member states which have not been restructured at all, such as bulgaria, hungary, slovakia and croatia. we have countries which allow restructuring under strict conditions, like my own country, germany. and we have countries where restructuring is easy going, like france, belgium, the united kingdom and other countries. in addition, restructuring is based on different cultures: there are many countries where, as in my home country of germany, the sole interest in restructuring, in insolvency, is the satisfaction of creditors, while in other countries the emphasis is on the continuation of the company and, ultimately, on the preservation of jobs. what is now provided for in this directive with regard to preventive restructuring is a good balance between these two different cultures. the directive is divided into three parts: the first part concerns the establishment of an early warning system to be introduced by the member states, the second major part deals with the subject of preventive restructuring, and the third part of the directive deals with debt relief. early warning systems will have to be introduced in all member states. i think it is good to give companies the tools to recognise at an early stage whether their business needs to be restructured. in some countries it is already being done, in others it is not yet being done. in the context of preventive restructuring, it was important for us in parliament to strike a better balance between the interests of all those involved, above all the creditors and debtors. the majority of us in parliament felt that the commission's proposal was a good one, but very debt-oriented, and we have now found a better balance by making changes in our report. we also wanted to clarify in our report the role of the parties involved in a preventive restructuring procedure. for example, we have defined precisely when a restructuring manager should be involved in the restructuring either on a compulsory or voluntary basis. the question of employee participation, workers' rights and employee representation has been a matter of concern to many colleagues in the european parliament. we have been able to reach a compromise, and i am very pleased about that. we've done a very good job of detailing this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the proposal for a directive now provides, in our view, that within three years you can forgive if the debtor also complies. all in all, a good result. i hope we can convince many people to start a business here, and those who need to restructure now have a framework.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for this debate. thank you in particular for the work that’s gone into this dossier and into getting us to the point we’ve now reached. again, on behalf of the commission, i encourage you all to vote tomorrow in favour of the political agreement on the insolvency directive reached in december. as far as we’re concerned, we will work to ensure that, once the council completes the procedural steps, the directive will be swiftly and effectively implemented by member states.
the rapporteur. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank the commission, commissioner king, and the other members who have been very active in this dossier. i would like to emphasize again that i think we have found a very, very good compromise and that above all we have taken an important step forward here also for the promotion of entrepreneurship in europe. we have so many talented people in all member states, so many talented minds, and i think we need to motivate young people to take risks, to start businesses. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. a colleague called twice and said that money was being passed around. this is not at all government money going into this restructuring. no, it is about either allowing companies to go bankrupt or simply trying to help a company that is in trouble through intelligent help, debt restructuring and the like - which can also have economic effects - again. and that is the very purpose of this directive. i am therefore very pleased that we have made a good start in strengthening the entrepreneurial side of the european union. we need this! we want not just government intervention, but we need entrepreneurs who create jobs, who also invest, who take some risk, and if we create a framework that helps these companies in particular, then i think we have done a good job. i very much hope that the report will be adopted by a large majority tomorrow. i also believe that we have a lot in the report to do to strengthen the workers' side accordingly. we have always had the discussion in advance, mr cofferati, whether we should give workers even better support. but we have also given you many opportunities for information and consultation in the context of this proposal for a directive. and they have the same rights as any creditor, except we didn't accept preferential rights. i think that's the right approach. i would ask for support in the vote tomorrow.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 28 march 2019.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr pavel svoboda, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down rules on the exercise of copyright and related rights in relation to certain online transmissions of broadcasters and the retransmission of television and radio programmes (com (((2016) 0594 - c8-0384/2016 - 2016/0284 ((cod)) (a8-0378/2017).
member of the commission. – mr president, i’m pleased that we’re discussing this evening the political agreement reached on this proposal. on behalf of the commission, we agree that this represents an important part of the digital single market strategy. allow me to thank, on behalf of colleagues, the rapporteurs and all the members who have been involved in getting the file to this point. the directive will help enable our citizens to benefit more fully from the diversity of content offered by european broadcasters, as we’ve heard, by making copyright licensing easier for broadcasters and retransmission operators that are willing to make more programmes available to more people across the eu. it will also benefit those living abroad, as they will be able to stay connected to their home countries, as well as europe’s numerous linguistic minorities. at the same time, the directive protects rights holders with a number of safeguards. in particular, the new directive makes it easier for broadcasters to provide access to their radio and television programmes via their online services, makes it easier for retransmission operators to obtain the necessary rights to retransmit broadcasts from other member states, and includes new rules on the direct injection technique relevant for the remuneration of rights holders. while the commission supports the text resulting from the interinstitutional discussions, which you’re going to be voting on tomorrow, i have to say that we regret that the original legal basis proposed, article 114, was replaced with articles 53(1) and 62. the commission intends to issue a declaration in this regard. commission statementin writing the commission takes note that the text adopted by the european parliament and the council of the directive laying down rules on the exercise of copyright and related rights applicable to certain online transmissions of broadcasting organisations and retransmissions of television and radio programmes and amending council directive 93/83/eec replaces the legal basis retained in its proposal (article 114 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, tfeu) with the combined legal basis of articles 53(1) and 62 tfeu. the commission considers that articles 53(1) and 62 tfeu provide a specific legal basis, and can thus be considered ‘lex specialis’, for directives concerning access to activities of self-employed persons. legislation exceeding that scope should more properly be based on the general legal basis related to the achievement of the internal market (article 114 tfeu). the two legal bases (article 114, and articles 53(1) and 62 tfeu) could also have been used in conjunction, if necessary. in a spirit of compromise and with a view to the immediate adoption of the proposal by the union, the commission supports the final text. however, it regrets the removal of article 114 tfeu as the legal basis of the directive and reaffirms that that provision of the tfeu shall be used in future internal market legislation concerning issues other than access to activities of self-employed persons.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank our rapporteur and our committee chairman very warmly, who has guided us through the discussions with patience and excellence in many, many trialogue sessions. without mr svoboda we would never have gotten along, there would have been no result. that's why i signed up in the first place. otherwise, i think the directive is really a milestone: we are making it easier to distribute tv and radio programmes on the internet by making it easier to clear rights. content will be more readily available across europe in the future, but - and this is my main point - at fair prices. i think that we have struck a good balance with the directive between the protection of european filmmakers on the one hand and the interests of broadcasters and consumers on the other. i have been campaigning for the exclusion of co-productions from the country of origin principle, which is enshrined in this directive for the clearing of rights, and i believe that this is important in order to ensure that films are also financed in the future. europe is not just a market, it lives on the diversity of its cultures, and i believe that through the diversity directive we are able to ... (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. – mr president, i hope no one mistakes the conciseness of tonight’s debate with the importance of this subject. this is an important proposal. it will contribute to improving access to online radio and television content across our european union, and it is a significant step forward in the completion of the digital single market. it’s not an abstract endeavour. it will make a practical difference. it will ensure more and better access to radio and television content across borders. from our side, we believe that this needs to become a reality as soon as possible, and we will follow up. i look forward to a positive outcome in the voting tomorrow.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 28 march 2019. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the report by hilde vautmans, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the recommendation of the european parliament to the council and the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the proposal from the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, with the commission's support, to the council for a council decision establishing a european peace facility (2018/2237 ((ini)) (a8-0157/2019).
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i wish to thank the honourable members who’ve intervened for their comments and suggestions. i would just say to mr pimenta lopes that, far from hiding anything, this is an exercise in transparency. it’s very clear what the purposes are, as the report i think recognises. it’s very clear what the decision—making procedures will be, and that will be open to scrutiny by all. indeed, work is already ongoing in some of the areas highlighted in the report – for example, ensuring that future transfers of sensitive equipment take place in compliance with international law, as well as with the relevant eu rules. this is something to which, i assure you, we will attach the highest priority. we also fully agree that the european parliament needs to be kept fully informed on a regular basis about the use of this facility. that is a commitment that we happily make. so, thank you again for all those who’ve engaged on this subject. i know some of those views are strongly held. thank you for this report. i hope it will be supported tomorrow.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 28 march 2019.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. unity in diversity is our great unity slogan for a reason. and we all know that if we do not learn to deal with diversity, with cultural diversity in europe, then our societies will become more violent. that is why our programme for cultural diversity, living with cultural differences, with different cultural traditions and valuing our cultural heritage and the future of common cultural production, is of crucial importance for the future of the european union. we are now seeing this with the artists and young people in the uk: they want to keep this creative europe programme because they all know what they get out of it. this is a programme which is only controversial among anti-europeanists, otherwise everyone knows the value and the fact that it matters to the individual citizen. that's why it's right to double the budget. we have a new programme, music moves europe, because music really does reach people's souls, not just their heads. we are doing more for european cinema, its diversity, also for films from small european countries and especially for intercultural dialogue.
i have to say, madam president, jean monnet is credited with the phrase: 'if i could start european integration again, it would not be with coal and steel, but with culture.' and what we have heard today reminds me of the policy that jean monnet has pursued with regard to coal and steel, with regard to the requirements, the resources and the subsidies. you can kind of transfer that to culture. i read a sentence that has excited and amused me wonderfully as an economist, and that is article 3a (c): 'the economies of scale, growth and jobs that are promoted by the union's support, which creates a leverage effect for additional resources'. i've never read a sentence that contains so much nonsense at once. scale effects, which means: size regression as the intensity increases. what is this about culture? growth, unemployment and leverage! oh, my god, what do you expect from this program? this is ridiculous! i find it ridiculous not because i am against europe, i find it ridiculous because i am european.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. my long-term goal is to enable every young person to have an erasmus experience without compromising on quality or length. the real tripling of resources which parliament is calling for is an absolutely necessary step towards this goal. we do not accept that the principle of 'mass instead of class' applies, possibly shortening stays and replacing them with virtual encounters. this is the consequence of the commission's proposal to double the resources and triple the number of participants. by focusing more on vocational training, adult education and schooling, we are enabling more young people to have better access to the programme. student exchange remains at the heart of the programme and will not suffer from these innovations. we also call for a return to the widespread use of lump sums. the application procedures must finally be made simpler and more understandable. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. with all due respect to the use of money, we are not asking for research grants worth billions, but we are seeking to continue our education by exchanging young people from other countries. this must finally be taken into account when applying for and paying the fees. finally, we call for an ambitious inclusion strategy that can really achieve the participation of all young europeans without discrimination and without barriers. the participation in an erasmus programme or an erasmus action should not depend on the parents' financial resources. i would like to ask the council today to give it a shake and to join parliament in demanding a tripling of the funds. we cannot go on talking about the importance of erasmus and then not be prepared to open our wallet. finally, it is about bringing people together in europe and paving a good way for europe's youth into the future. that should be worth 41 billion euros to us. the commission has presented the programme six months late and the council is not prepared to give us any commitment as regards the money. so here, content follows money, not the other way around. and that is why we are prepared to negotiate after the european elections, but not before.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european parliament has called for the budget for erasmus to be tripled to 41 billion. this is a valid demand because education is a major determinant of people's chances in life. this is the crucial point, especially for migrants and disadvantaged people. that's why we have to start with the little ones. you must learn the language of the country. this is why the new erasmus programme focuses on the trainee. it is not just about the already better-off high school students or university students. but of course, overall, we want to do more for education, and it's always about education, but of course it's about education and personality formation in general, that you can broaden your horizons, that you can travel in europe and beyond. there are many who have been erasmus students themselves, and they all say how much they have benefited from it. our concern is simply to give as many young people as possible, and also not so young people, this chance. because europe is doing something for its citizens!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank the two rapporteurs for their exceptionally good work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is therefore high time to ensure that the financial sector is committed to greater sustainability. and we cannot rely on voluntary action alone. binding eu legislation with strict and clear standards is necessary. it is therefore imperative that the financial sector invests only in projects and businesses that do not cause any damage to the environment or to society. please support the incorporation of eu indicators on social and environmental factors into existing financial rules! this is an important step to ensure that sustainability is not just a lapidary phrase in the financial sector, but is taken more seriously in the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the financial markets must play a part in helping us achieve the climate targets. this contribution must also go beyond simply following existing laws. there must be incentives for investors when companies go beyond the existing legislation. and of course, we have to make sure that there's no greenwashing, so that you don't label something as sustainable that it's not. but we as the epp have also been a little careful about regulating too many details now, because we want this market to develop. many financial investors are very concerned about sustainability, and if we make it too complicated, it could have counterproductive effects, especially because a lot of small credit institutions have to deal with this legislation. that is why we have advocated a workable compromise. i am very grateful that the joint committee of econ and envi has achieved what we consider to be a very good result. i would be glad if we could reach a decision on this by a large majority in the house. then we have a workable way that gives direction, but doesn't stifle important, good ideas in the bud.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the taxonomy should have been the first dossier in the sustainable finance package. after all, we need to know what we're talking about before we can discuss any more details. but we have already adopted disclosure requirements and sustainable benchmarks. so we're gonna start the horse from behind. the fact that we are treating taxonomy as the last of these three dossiers is more than unfortunate. but it is all the more important that the taxonomy dossier is good and that it succeeds. we have found a position in the committee, by a narrow majority, which is appropriate and reasonable. otherwise, the transition to more sustainable finance will not succeed. the market is naturally hungry for clear european standards and products. but it can't be our job to just label, but it has to be really sustainable financial products. but it cannot lead to a complete restructuring of our economic and social systems. financial instruments are not there to transform society, but society has to take care of the financial instruments, then the whole thing will be right. if we do this under the motto: "we cannot achieve our goals anywhere, let's do it in the financial system", it will not succeed. so i'm all for a clear taxonomy, a clear focus on sustainability, no sectors being left out and volunteering. then it will be accepted by the market and by the customers.
i have to say, madam president, in my youth there was no erasmus programme, but in 1963 i was allowed to attend a weeklong student meeting here in strasbourg. it's what shaped me politically. and i realized then: the french-german reconciliation has begun among the young. if we are now being asked to triple the size of this programme, i will be happy to support it, even if it costs us agricultural politicians a few million. but i think the money's well spent. we should make sure that not only young academics participate in the programme, but also young craftsmen and young farmers, because it is also important to get to know other countries. and i think this is one of the best programmes for european youth. that's why i'm happy to support it.
the next item is the debate on the request for a written answer with debate by mr daniel buda, mr theodor dumitru stolojan, mr marian-jean marinescu, mr adina-ioana vălean, mr cristian-silviu buşoi, mr mihai ţurcanu, mr csaba sógor, mr siegfried mureşan, mr emil radev, mr milan zver, ms romana tomc, mr ivana maletić, ms michaela šojdrová, ms marijana petir, ms dubravka šuica, ms danuta jazłowiecka, mr krzysztof hetman, mr franc bogovič, mr anna záborská, mr željana zkovko, mr marek plura, mr dariusz tamati, mr ros rosati, mr kinga gálbert, mr erdős, mr lászló tőkés, mr andrea aloc, mr andrás boc, mr gygy győrsk, mr györgy schöpflin, mr andrás pól, mr urbache, mr peter delivica, mr vladimir boni boni, mr janis jános toch, mr michałd, mr andrás tojov, the commission against the adjustment of children in poland, which is responsible for the following cases:
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the austrian government is fundamentally wrong in cutting child benefit for eu citizens in austria. the government is also breaking eu law: the right to equal treatment: all workers, regardless of their origin, when they contribute to social and tax systems, also have the same rights and the same rights to benefits. the adjustment of child benefit to the cost of living in the country of residence is profoundly unfair. it is quite bizarre that at the same moment the austrian government is granting diplomats special treatment, while the average austrian who has children abroad has to accept other treatment. we, the social democrats, are firmly committed to the principle of equal treatment. equal treatment and the prohibition of discrimination - that is the strong foundation of europe. i know the debate from germany. our position is clear: the problem is not freedom of movement but abuse in individual cases. there is indeed gang-based abuse. here the state must take action it has become so in germany. in germany, family funds, job centres in conjunction with the immigration authorities and customs have begun to exercise greater control. this is also the right way to stop the abuse. the commission has also been active in opposing employment relationships which are only for show in order to apply for child benefit from the family fund. however, benefits that are linked to the economic activities of eu citizens cannot be reduced or even eliminated. we do not need such measures, we need a europe which provides social security. my appeal to the commission is to examine very carefully whether the indexation of child benefit introduced by the austrian government is in line with the principle of equal treatment.
member of the commission. – mr president, this debate has touched upon the essentials of the single market and eu citizenship. as regards the austrian legislation, the commission now needs to analyse the reply of the austrian government that we received this monday, and we can only decide upon any further steps after having carefully assessed the arguments put forward, as we always do. but let me recap. first of all, for me, this is a question of fairness and equal treatment. the issue that we have in front of us is not one of social dumping, it is not a situation prone to abuse or fraud: we are indeed talking of european citizens who took up a job abroad and provide their skills in a host country where they are contributing to the social security system and to the tax system. equal treatment and fairness demand that these workers receive the same benefits as local workers regardless of where their children are living. the fact that their children are living in a member state with a lower cost of living than the member state of work should not be relevant for the benefit that is paid out as a lump sum and that is not linked to the actual expense of maintaining a child. i am well aware of the peculiarities of certain national systems whereby employers finance a large part of the benefits. let me just recall that in such systems, employers pay the same amount of contributions for their employees, regardless of the nationality or place of residence of the children in question. i’m also aware of the content of what we called a couple of years ago the uk settlement agreement, but, as you all know, this ceased to exist. it was foreseen in the agreement that if the outcome of the referendum were to leave the european union, then this agreement would be null and void. allow me also to ask the question: if you open the door to indexation for child benefits, then what would be the next candidate for adjustment of benefits on the basis of living costs? allow member states to reduce pension rights when workers retire to states where it is cheaper to live, as ms ayala sender said? some people say we have concerns about fraud and abuse and i share all those concerns, but then i have to say that indexation is not the answer. on the contrary, you are hitting those people who get up in the morning, work hard and make a real contribution to the member state of work. in order to fight abuses and fraud, we need to strengthen the tools for national authorities to control and obtain information from their counterparts abroad, and that this why we have created the european labour authority. that is also why we strengthened the cooperation requirements for member states when revising the european social security rules, strengthening cooperation between member states while also avoiding excessive control measures based on distrust. to conclude, mobility needs to be based on clear, fair and enforceable rules. these rules benefit austrians, slovaks, germans, belgians and all the other european citizens alike by protecting their social rights when they are on the move. i thank you for the support of the action that i have been taking in this area and on which we have been able to reach an important political agreement that will improve the situation for our citizens’ families and businesses. together with some members who mentioned this agreement on which coreper has to decide tomorrow, i hope together with you that this deal will be accepted by the member states, and of course after that also by the european parliament.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
rapporteur. – mr president, i have to say that this is a difficult situation now for all those who would like to have a constructive approach here in this house. yesterday in the committee on transport and tourism (tran) – and the chair is here, as are all the other colleagues as well – we voted on more than 1 300 amendments, vote by vote, and we’ve clearly seen that there is a clear compromise – as i said last week in strasbourg – which goes through the different groups. therefore it’s absolutely not necessary to postpone or cancel this vote. we are now prepared; the sector, the drivers all around the european union, are waiting for action from this european parliament. therefore, i urge you all to vote against this approach. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, barely three weeks ago i was addressing you on the same topic, still hoping that some form of resolution would emerge from the parliamentary process in london. unfortunately, as you know, the british parliament and government are still grappling with the issue of whether and how to exit the union as we speak. the european council has expressed, among others, the willingness to adapt the political declaration, including in some of the directions consider during the indicative votes at the commons. the uncertainties and negative consequences therefore still remain as regards citizens, businesses and public authorities, with an already clear economic impact in terms of level of activity, investment and therefore jobs on both sides of the channel. at this very late stage, we are still determined to facilitate the conclusion of the withdrawal agreement. this should however not be to detriment of the solidarity among the member states as regards, in particular, ireland. we therefore need to continue to take all possible steps in order to facilitate an orderly withdrawal. this is why in march the european council considered a uk request for a short extension on the article 50 period and decided on a two-track approach. either the withdrawal agreement could not to be approved by 29 march and the extension would run until 12 april, and the uk would have to indicate a way forward, or until 22 may if the withdrawal agreement is approved. as you know, the withdrawal agreement has not been approved in time so the operating withdrawal date is now 12 april. the uk will have to indicate a way forward, possibly leading to a further extension, which would again required a unanimity decision by the european council. should the uk indeed come back with a request for a significant expansion, it should not undermine the operations of the institutions and would therefore have to foresee the holding of the european elections. on the eu side at the least, i am confident that our institutions will be able to complete the consent and conclusion process in a good time and therefore ensure a timely entry into force of the agreement, if the agreement is eventually approved in the house of commons. the withdrawal agreement continues to be the best solution for both sides, including in terms of protection of citizens’ rights. we are, however, under no illusion that should a no deal be the outcome of the process in london, it will have serious consequences, and we might know it at the last minute. it is therefore all the more necessary to continue our preparation for all outcomes, including a no deal scenario. i’m so far encouraged by the significant progress made at the union and national level, on preparedness and contingency. at this late stage in their legislative term, we should be pleased with a large number of contingency and preparedness related measures that our institutions have been able to agree, in spite of the heavy workload. i am confident that with your cooperation it will be possible to complete the adoption of the remaining contingency measures in good time.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president of the council of ministers, what has happened in westminster in recent days has strengthened my conviction - which has never changed - that the best way forward is to ratify the withdrawal agreement, which has been approved by the british government and endorsed in principle by this parliament and the european council. ten days ago, the european council put forward a condition for extending the article 50 negotiating deadline to 22 may 2019: approval of the withdrawal agreement in the house of commons by 29 march. unfortunately, this was not the case. referring to the statement by the british prime minister last night, i believe that we have a few more days if the uk is able to approve the withdrawal agreement with a viable majority by 12 april. in this case, the european union should also accept an extension until 22 may. however, the 12th april is the final date for possible approval. if the house of commons has not taken a decision by that date, no further short-term extension will be possible. after 12 april, we risk jeopardising the smooth running of the european parliament elections and threatening the proper functioning of the european union. the withdrawal agreement is and always has been a compromise. a fair compromise that allowed each side to get some of what it wanted, but not all of what it wanted. it is through this type of compromise that the european union has been built from the beginning. it is such compromises that have allowed the european project to move forward, and it is this type of compromise that we also need now. much of the debate in the house of commons has been about the future relationship between the european union and the united kingdom. the european union is ready to add a degree of flexibility to the political declaration to pave the way for a future close economic partnership between the union and the united kingdom. we are open to a whole range of options, from a free trade agreement to customs facilities, a customs union, even a european economic area. the openness which we have had from the beginning is not in any way called into question and can be made more explicit in the political declaration. on the eu side, we are ready to start discussions and negotiations on our future partnership as soon as the withdrawal agreement is signed, before the ink is dry. the commission's negotiating team is in place, my friend michel barnier, our chief negotiator, is ready and i would like to be able to count on the same level of preparation from the uk side. whether that happens or not is entirely up to the united kingdom. the european council gave the country all the time and space it needed to take its decision. however, i believe that a no deal at midnight on 12 april has become an increasingly plausible scenario. it is not the one i want, but i have made sure, we have made sure that the european union is ready to deal with it. we have been preparing for this since december 2017. we have always known that the logic of article 50 makes no deal the default option. we have long known about the balance of power in the house of commons. to date, the commission has published 91 notes on brexit preparation, 32 non-legislative acts, 19 legislative proposals and 3 communications. we visited - commission representatives - each of the 27 member states to help them with their preparations. we have held 72 seminars with the member states. the measures that the member states and ourselves have taken will mitigate the most severe consequences of the shock of a no deal. they offer real protection: they will ensure that citizens of the european union and the united kingdom can continue to live and work where they currently reside. they will also ensure that aircraft can continue to take off and land. we have adapted our financial instrument to help the fisheries sector. we have put in place mechanisms to continue our police cooperation and have taken the necessary measures to mitigate the disruption in our financial markets. the measures we have taken are temporary and unilateral. they will protect the key interests of the european union, at least until the end of the year, but the turbulence for citizens, businesses and almost every sector will obviously be unavoidable. the uk will be more affected than the eu because there is no managed or negotiated no deal, nor is there a no deal transition period. whatever happens, the uk will still have to answer the three main questions of separation. first, the rights of citizens must be respected and protected. secondly, the united kingdom will have to continue to honour the financial commitments it has made as a member state. thirdly, a solution must be found on the island of ireland, which preserves both peace and the internal market. the uk must respect the spirit and the letter of the good friday agreement. no withdrawal agreement does not mean that there should be no commitment. the three questions i have just listed will not disappear overnight. they will even be the preconditions for rebuilding trust and for starting discussions about the future. mr president, next week at the european council we will hear prime minister theresa may outline her intentions and we will decide on the way forward. the principles that will guide my action are clear. we, the member states and the european parliament, will work until the last minute to avoid a no deal. in fact, the only people who would benefit from the shock of a no deal are the opponents of a rules-based world order. the only ones who would be strengthened are the populists and the nationalists. (applause) the only people who would be happy would be those who want to weaken both the european union and, think again, the united kingdom. the european union will not expel any member state. i will personally, together with michel, do everything to avoid a disorderly exit of the united kingdom and i expect the political leaders of the european union of 27 and of this parliament, as well as the united kingdom, to do the same. this is the first time in this parliament that i have read a speech because i believe that every word matters.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to say on behalf of my group that we agree with the commission's analysis and conclusions and will continue to support them in the coming days and weeks. i think it is quite clear that a hard brexit can only be avoided - whether we have a short extension or a longer extension - if a withdrawal agreement is concluded and approved by the house of commons. this contract is negotiated. in any scenario, this is a must; it cannot be avoided. the second point is: we do not want a hard brexit, because the damage is great for everyone - for the uk much, much more than for us, but also for us. and that is why the way forward is to have two to four years to negotiate the future relationship and to come to a free trade agreement, to a customs union - whatever the british want, we are ready to go along with that - and to come to an understanding on external and internal security, on research and other areas and in particular erasmus. this possibility must be opened up in the next few days. if the withdrawal agreement is not ratified, there will be a hard brexit with no way to negotiate these things, with all the consequences that go with it. and i would remind you that the european elections are a deadline by which time this must be done. i do not think it is a good thing that the united kingdom is taking part in the european elections and is taking part in some far-reaching decisions this summer and then walking away. that means if you get a longer delay, then it has to be conditional - longer term, not until october - then we do this theatre of indicative votes in the house of commons every week - but it has to be longer, and then it has to be conditional on a rearrangement of british politics. if the government and parliament fail and fail to move forward, the people must speak, there must be new elections, there must be a referendum. it takes time. but i would prefer to have a sensible, quick solution and to be prepared for the possibility that the corbyn/may talks might succeed. we always said, "talk to each other". we said that two years ago, we said that three weeks ago, we said that three months ago. finally they are talking to each other, and that is when corbyn and may should finally put country before party and come to a deal across party lines for the country and for europe.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. as always, the expiry date of theresa may's statement is quite unclear. we do not know what will come out tonight or tonight, and we do not know whether if corbyn and theresa may agree then parliament will actually follow them, because we do not know how strong the following is especially among the tories. so much for mrs foster, for her attacks on labour. the no-deal scenario is still on the table. if the members of parliament do not follow the possible agreement between corbyn and may at the beginning of next week, there will be no time to actually work out a procedure, to work out a rationale for wanting a longer extension. then, in my view, there will be no deal on april 12. and there are a whole series of dangers associated with this no-deal scenario, and that is why we as a group are also demanding that in the negotiations afterwards on the future relationship it should be clear that we will protect civil rights, that we will be 'ring-fencing' for both the citizens of the uk and the citizens of the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the needs of the people of europe. the question is then to draw two borders: a maritime border and a land border. i think it's perfectly clear: my group will never be able to agree to any new frontiers that we draw here in the european union in europe . and i want to be very clear about this: what we've been through so far, over the last few months, it's more like a casino than anything else. we went from poker to roulette, and now we're at russian roulette. and that, in my view, is a huge danger we face. so i'm asking everyone to do everything we can to make sure that we come out of this with a deal, and that we do it by april 12th, that we have that decision clear. i would like to say a word about claude moraes: i do not think it is right, and i would like to protest in the name of my group, that in the middle of a trilogue procedure a british member of parliament, who has been the head of the libe committee for many years and has done an excellent job, is being excluded from the negotiations because of the objection from the council and especially from spanish members of parliament here in the european parliament after the 6th trilogue. i would like to thank claude moraes for his work. he is the most respected man in our department.
madam president, earlier we heard mr farage, mr batten, mr o’flynn and mr hookem, and i think they are experts in london bashing, as much as mr verhofstadt is. president juncker, last week you accused britain’s ex-prime minister of being one of the biggest destroyers in recent history. while i agree that brexit is indeed a catastrophe for both britain and the european union, i ask myself: how can you put mr cameron in the same gallery as other real destroyers of history in europe? i think i know the reason. i think you want to deflect from your own role in brexit. where the lisbon treaty called for competition, you advocated the opposite: harmonisation. where the treaty called for subsidiarity, your commission constantly pushed for more power to brussels. and while britain joined a football club, you decided to play hockey. it was your policies which forced david cameron to call for a referendum in the first place, and it was your refusal to grant him more autonomy on immigration matters which contributed ... (interjection from the president)mr cameron is not one of the biggest destroyers in recent history, but your insult of david cameron must be one of the biggest smokescreens ever produced by a politician in recent history. avoid becoming the president who lost britain. give mrs may an extension without any conditions so we maintain a chance that they stay in the european union. (applause)
prime minister of sweden. – mr president, vice-president of the commission, distinguished leaders of the political groups, members of the parliament, my fellow europeans, firstly, let me express my appreciation for all the efforts and the work during this electoral period and the progress that you have achieved for europe and us all. but of course, my focus today will not be on our past but on our future. i believe that we must step up to defend our fundamental values in the european union, and the most strategic way to fight the forces that challenge those values is to deliver results in the areas of employment, security, migration, climate change, and thus to create hope for the future. so that should be our core mission: the defence of our democratic values and our young people’s dream. there are people that say that idealism is the preserve of the young, and that when we enter into the world of adults, we learn that nothing is black and white and realise that self-interest and cynical trade-off rules the world. i believe that narrative is wrong. my parents took me in as a foster child. they taught about shared responsibility, about respect for every human being, about solidarity, and during both my trade union and political life as an adult, i have had to compromise and make tough decisions in difficult situations such as economic downturns – but also terror attacks. that has not made me forget my values. it has only deepened my belief in the importance of having a moral compass to guide you through these tough times, because if we didn’t let our values steer our decisions, if we didn’t feel that our choices were leading us towards the kind of society we believe in, what would be the point in making decisions at all? the same applies to the european union. our union is based on values. the whole idea of creating a common market and joint responsibility for coal and steel production was to tie our countries and the people closer together. we wanted to fulfil friedrich schiller’s sentiments in the ode to joy that ‘alle menschen werden brüder’, with equal rights, equal value and which, put to the music of beethoven, became our common anthem. and now that our union has grown in size and has grown older as well, we, just like the individual, need to remember our most fundamental values. for what would be the ultimate point of our work, the ultimate point of our union, if we did not promote the values that we believe in? and this, my friends, may also be the best thing we can do for the world. we are living in a time when the multilateral system is being shaken to its core. the united kingdom wants to leave our union. the transatlantic link is being questioned. meanwhile, china is on the rise, and several economies in south-east asia and africa are ready to follow in its footsteps and redraw the entire global economic map. and at the same time, russia is acting in a revanchist manner, in flagrant contempt of international law. so, now more than ever, it is time to stand up for common principle-based solutions and a world order where might does not come before right. but the eu can only be a strong voice for democracy in the world if all of us member states stand up for the principles of democracy – also at home. we can only be a credible actor in the middle east if we fight anti-semitism and islamophobia in our own countries. we can only be a force for free media and the rule of law in our neighbourhood if we have a free media and independent courts in our union. for every democratic principle that is weakened in the eu, the eu’s voice in the world will be equally weakened. (applause)therefore the eu must stand up for our fundamental values, both externally in our world but also, of course, internally in our union. and this is more than about our place in the world. this is about the whole future of our cooperation. if the principles contained in our most fundamental contracts are not adhered to, how are we then to trust other agreements on the single market, on free movement – everything that does so much for our prosperity? if our promises to each other are to be trusted, if our cooperation and our economy are to continue to grow, then pacta sunt servanda must apply to the most fundamental contracts of all. and therefore, sweden will work to defend the eu’s core values in the budget negotiations, in our support of the commission’s work, and my government will propose to the swedish parliament that sweden will join the european public prosecutor’s office to contribute in the fight against corruption and the embezzlement of eu funds. (applause)we support also the belgian proposal, or something similar, to establish an eu mechanism for the peer review of adherence to the rule of law. and i will devote my efforts in europe to defending the values that i have borne since my childhood: of the equal value of all people and of solidarity. i will give my all, side by side with so many of you, to refute and fight the extremist forces who deny these values and those forces that are doing everything they can to tear apart the union that defends them. and of course, eu is a compromise: probably one of the most successful compromises in world history. but there can be no compromising on human dignity. there is no reasonable level of anti-semitism, no acceptable level of racism, no tolerable level of misogyny or homophobia. never will we compromise on these values. (applause) the defence of democracy is also the defence of young people’s dreams. is there anything more dangerous to society than its young people ceasing to dream? it is in societies that have lost hope that both political and religious extremism can grow the strongest, and this is not only crucial in the fight against extremism, but also in the work to uphold broad, popular support for our union. i believe it is crucial for all of us in the current brexit negotiations, for example, that the uk and the eu have the ability to move on as friends and create a close, strong and long-term relationship. but the only way for the eu to avoid similar exit ordeals in the future is to constantly prove its worth to people’s everyday lives and to their dreams for the future. and that is why the eu should not only benefit the market but, preferably, benefit its people. it is also why the work for a larger market can also be the work for a stronger democracy – if that can create jobs and hope for our young people. over the past two years, south african president cyril ramaphosa and i have co-chaired a global commission on the future of work for the international labour organisation. and there is no doubt that in the future, work will be more advanced, more automised, more digitised, and that demand for skilled workers will soar. this is good news for the eu. we benefit from a global competition that is based on knowledge rather than lower wages. but we cannot rest on our laurels, because everyone wants to be in the same position. china has long been educating more engineers than the united states, germany and japan put together. so in this respect, our european cooperation will have an incredibly important role to play in the creation and sharing of world-leading knowledge and innovation. and there are always many competing interests in budget negotiations; you know that better than most. but my country has learned the very hard way that it is only with strict priorities and a budget that is under control that democracy actually can deliver in the long-term and with stability. and that is why, given all the competing interests, we do not propose a larger budget, but rather the stronger prioritisation of innovation, new jobs and the digital, educational and physical infrastructure required to make them possible. it is our responsibility, for our young people’s dreams, to take advantage of this opportunity. our solution can never be to lower wages or raise protectionist walls. we should not shut ourselves off from the world. we should lead it. therefore i am proud also that young people now in tallinn or in bratislava can listen to hip hop from paris or fado from lisbon on spotify from stockholm. but i also know how hard spotify had to work to get launched in europe. compare that to a start-up company in silicon valley. they can launch a product on the us market and reach more than 320 million people immediately. so our only chance of competing with this is to make it just as easy to reach all the citizens in the european union at the same time. and believe me, anyone who has lived through a dark nordic winter knows that we can not compete with california when it comes to weather. for generations, people from our continent have travelled across the atlantic in search of a better life. but the young geniuses and it geniuses of today and the future should not have to go west, or east for that matter, to realise their dreams. they should be able to do so here in europe, in a digital market open to everyone. friends, it is now almost a treat to visit the european commission website and see that one priority policy area is the european pillar of social rights. of course, my pride is not diminished when it also says that we launched this work in the swedish city of gothenburg. i’m grateful to president juncker, the commission, to the european parliament, to the member states and the council for all of our work to create a social pillar and establish 20 key principles that strengthen the social rights of all the citizens of europe. but no worker will or should thank us, unless these 20 principles also become reality across the eu: until we stand up for collective agreements and fair wages, until we put a stop to rule-breaking and tax fraud, until we secure gender equality and women’s right to a full wage, a career without glass ceilings and the freedom to decide over their own lives. for this very same reason, sweden will actively promote new free trade agreements, because we know how many jobs these agreements can create. but all these agreements should also be favourable to people as well as to the market. the agreements must respect our environment, our health and the rights of workers. and there is an enormous potential for the european services market if it’s opened up and shaped with concern for social rights. the eu labour market must be defined by all of the positive freedoms: the freedom to study abroad, learn languages, work throughout europe – but never the freedom to set workers against workers. (applause) our common labour market should not crush workers’ dreams; it should fulfil them. i know that, if you are to have hope in the future, you must also feel safe here and now. isis and terrorism are dreadful security threats that must be dealt with together, but unfortunately that’s not the only challenge that we have. i recently met the leadership of europol at their headquarters in the hague and their virtual command post. europol has done an amazing job, not least breaking up and arresting paedophile networks. this type of crime – every nation and nation’s police service can see their part, but we can only see the whole and crush it in cooperation with others. a single nation would not – even if it really wanted to, even if it poured in resources – be able to solve that alone. so europe is borderless for criminals as well. they read up the european laws looking for the weakest national legislation and for the new national markets to enter. that is why sweden wants to deepen european efforts to fight organised crime as well as cyber threats. we want to strengthen our cooperation on security and defence, increase our ability to implement joint civilian and military crisis management operations, and have a european union that cooperates with strategic partners and builds security together. i also know that there is a broad agreement in this parliament and on this continent that the eu must never again lose control in the way it did during the refugee crisis. chaotic migration affects the confidence of the whole of society and the reception of refugees, but it affects the refugees themselves worst of all. the only ones who benefit are right-wing extremists who are able to use the situation to inflame hatred of migrants. the eu’s free movement of people requires shared external borders and a shared responsibility for orderly, regulated migration, built on three pillars. firstly, strong cooperation with countries outside the eu, so that fewer people are displaced and more people can have better living conditions, so that new migration crises can be reduced or prevented entirely. secondly, the control of all external borders, which is now taking place through the strengthening of frontex, creating greater security and saving lives. thirdly, the fair distribution of those who arrive and whose grounds for asylum are to be examined, with that work carried out as a shared responsibility by all member states. it should not be possible to benefit from all of the advantages of the schengen cooperation and then refuse to share the responsibility for its maintenance. and we have, in this respect, a huge task ahead of us. sweden will do its best to support the completion of that task, and i’m under no illusion that it will be simple. but if we fail to deliver, the schengen agreement will be weakened, and in the long run, so will the entire european union. so it’s time now to step up for orderly and regulated migration in europe. it is in the best interest of us all. dear friends, as swedes, we’re often asked: ‘do you know abba? do you know zlatan ibrahimović?’ now we’re getting ready for a new question: ‘do you know greta thunberg?’ we’re proud of the demonstrations that she has inspired, which gathered over a million young people all over the world. but one thing we must never forget in their message is the following: it is not up to their generation to solve the climate crisis, it is up to us: all generations, here and now. (applause) sweden is ready to be in the lead of that work and show what is possible. we have a climate framework for our society which will lead our efforts to cut emissions quickly and powerfully and achieve net zero emissions by 2045. but it’s us together that must implement the paris agreement – without any ifs, without any buts, without maybes – in order to keep the global temperature rise below 1.5°, and as part of this work, the eu needs to adopt a goal of net zero emissions by 2050 at the very latest. this is also a great opportunity for european industry, as the whole world is crying out for new solutions. so this is not only the right thing to do morally, it is the smart thing to do economically, and it is crucial to our survival. to conclude, mr president, this is what i want to say to you today: idealism is not only the preserve of the young. our common values have been the basis for the eu’s fantastic history, and they must guide us now, so that we can have an even brighter future. and in these times, when people say that the eu must prove its worth, there is no better task for our union than defending our democratic values and by delivering on jobs, security, migration and climate change, defending the dreams of our young people. an eu that can deliver this not only gains greater legitimacy but also a stronger voice in our world. it is indeed a difficult task, but that is why it’s so alluring, and that is why it’s so perfect for us. (applause)
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, it’s a great pleasure to represent president juncker in this debate on the future of our union with prime minister löfven. at the start of next year, we will celebrate 25 years of sweden taking its rightful place at the heart of our union. in this time, sweden has brought so much to the european union, from its rich culture to its unique social model. in many ways, a swedish way of doing things has become both an example and a guide for our future. sweden is a country that does more than simply talk about european values. it puts them right at the heart of its society through its strong social protection and high—quality education and health care for all, and it is a country that always looks forward. for instance, sweden was one of the first countries to pass a climate act with the explicit goal of being carbon neutral by 2045. it is also well ahead of the rest when it comes to embracing a new digital world. stockholm is now home to more one billion plus companies, or so—called unicorns, per capita anywhere in the eu and is the most important tech hub of this kind outside silicon valley. we can learn from all of this. but, as we look forward, there is another swedish concept that i believe should be central to the future of our union. for many swedes, lagom is a lifestyle and a habit of mind. it is a swedish philosophy of moderation and balance, of avoiding both excess and extreme. for many, it is the secret of a balanced, sustainable and happy life. as we look to our future, europe should inspire itself from lagom to find the right balance for all of its member states and all of its citizens. it means focusing on the things that matter most to europeans and doing less elsewhere. it means tackling the big issues by being open to compromise and finding balanced solutions to common challenges. in this spirit, i want to commend the prime minister and all of sweden for the way they responded to the migration crisis in 2015. ever since, it has been leading efforts on a long—term and comprehensive reform of our asylum system so that it offers protection for those who need it. the solution we need must balance solidarity and responsibility. the commission has put the package of asylum reform on the table, and europeans now expect their leaders to make real progress. we count on sweden to continue leading those efforts. sweden has also been at the forefront of efforts to make our union more socially fair for all, an issue which is second nature to your country. i want to thank the prime minister for his personal leadership on the european pillar of social rights launched by president juncker in gothenburg in 2017. it is a shared and future—proof commitment to support a fairer and more equal society across europe. once again, it’s about finding the right balance. this is, of course, mainly a national competence, and the eu does not interfere with the crucial role played by the social partners. but there is a lot we can do together and, thanks to the social pillar, we already have. we have ensured equal pay for equal work in the same place. in recent months, we have agreed new rules to improve the work—life balance for parents and carers. we have agreed to set up a european labour authority to make the labour market fairer and support the 17 million europeans who work in another member state. and we are investing in skills to help people get on the job market or find new opportunities in today’s rapidly-changing world of work. when it comes to the future of our union, there is no more important priority than the fight against climate change. millions of young europeans in europe, and increasingly beyond europe, are marching. politicians – at least european politicians – are listening to the young people. they tell us that every year of their lives has been one of the warmest recorded. indeed, 17 out of 18 of the hottest years on record all occurred in this century, and we see with our own eyes the damage that this is causing. we saw devastating forest fires and hugely costly droughts in sweden and elsewhere last summer and, just recently, we had another tragic reminder of this in mozambique, malawi and zimbabwe. sadly, this is not a freak event or a one-off. by 2050, climate change could force more than 10% of the global population to flee their homes. the world needs to respond, and europe needs to continue leading the way. we did that with the paris agreement, which we are implementing at home and helping others to do the same right across the world. for example, the commission has already proposed to devote a quarter of the eu’s budget to climate—related action as of 2021. but public finance alone will not be enough to meet our ambitious climate and energy targets by 2030. the financial sector needs to play its part in the fight against climate change. this is why we put forward an action plan on sustainable finance to incentivise private capital to flow towards green projects. we immediately followed up with three legislative proposals, two of which have already been agreed at eu level. but fighting climate change takes more than targets, and it will not stop in 2030. we must look further ahead. this is why the commission has set a long-term strategy to be climate neutral by 2050. according to our estimates, this would lead to clean technology solutions, boost our gdp by up to two percent, and take off as much as eur 3 trillion from our energy import bill while ensuring a just and socially-balanced transition for all. it is good for people and it’s good for the economy, and, for me, that is what european leadership looks like in the 21st century. the world expects, and we must deliver. this is why we have focused our proposals for the new multiannual financial framework on areas where european action can have the biggest impact. to respond to the future challenges, the commission has proposed a modest increase in our long-term budget to an equivalent of 1.11% of the eu 27’s gni. we hope that member states will support this approach, which is a minimum to fund our joint european actions. as sweden, for example, has long called for, we have put forward programmes that are modern, flexible and focused, and we are investing where there is the greatest potential for our future. funding for research and innovation will be increased by 50%, to reach eur 100 billion. a new digital europe programme, worth eur 9 billion, will support europe’s digital transformation and create new opportunities for swedish tech companies like spotify or klarna to flourish, and, as i mentioned, we will ensure that 25% of the budget will support our climate and sustainable development targets. there is no greater return on investment than a clean planet for future generations. prime minister, honourable members, it is only by working together to make our union stronger that we can collectively tackle the issues which individually we never could. the last 25 years of swedish membership of the european union should be our template. it shows that a stronger, more sovereign europe means a stronger, more sovereign sweden, and it shows the virtues of showing true responsibility and solidarity. as we look to our future, this should inspire us to help us to find the balance – the lagom – that we need in our union. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank you, prime minister löfven, for the inspiring speech, and thank you for the start of your speech. you spoke about the fundamental principles of europe, about our values, democracy, rule of law, freedom probably as a title of europe, which is the overwhelming value for us, and about the independence of the judiciary. you mentioned these issues and you know that you have the european parliament on your side when we speak about defending these values for europe. the step which is ahead of us is that you have to consider strengthening the defence mechanism internally. in the european parliament we have already spoken a lot about an upgraded rule of law mechanism in today’s european union – article 7. it is not strong enough, it’s not effective enough to protect the values of europe, and that’s why the upgraded rule of law mechanism should be one of the main activities for the next five years into the europe of the future. you’re right – it’s not possible to defend our values to the outside when we don’t implement them internally, so thank you for this. ich möchte heute zwei sachen herausgreifen, die sie angesprochen haben und die viele menschen mit schweden verbinden. das erste ist, dass schweden für viele europäer das land der fairness und der gerechtigkeit, das land der solidarität ist. und es ist in europa notwendiger als jemals zuvor, über diese themen nachzudenken, sie anzuwenden. wir haben heute ein europa, das von vielen menschen als ein europa der banken, der märkte, des geldes wahrgenommen wird und zu wenig als ein europa des zusammenhaltes, der sozialen marktwirtschaft. deswegen möchte ich diesen akzent aufgreifen: so wie es valdis dombrovskis beschrieben hat, hat die heutige kommission, unter führung von jean-claude juncker gemeinsam mit marianne thyssen, schon viele initiativen auf den weg gebracht, die wir als evp unterstützen, initiativen, die zu einem starken solidaritätsgefühl und zu einem starken sozialen europa führen. im respekt gegenüber den nationalen parlamenten – weil sie ja auch zurecht angesprochen haben, dass viele kompetenzen national verankert sind – müssen wir das miteinander anpacken. ich würde gern noch einen konkreten vorschlag mit einbringen: europa ist ja für handelspolitik zuständig. wir machen trade agreements auf europäischer ebene – die wir dort aushandeln und für die europa die verantwortung trägt, vor allem eine schwedische kommissarin – und ich glaube, dass europa solidarisch gefordert ist, wenn negative folgen aufgrund dieser handelspolitik entstehen, wenn manche märkte, manche industrien unter druck kommen wegen des internationalen handels und der öffnung der märkte. das heißt, wir werden uns in der nächsten legislaturperiode überlegen müssen, den bestehenden europäischen globalisierungsfonds so aufzustocken, so auszustatten, dass er die negativen wirkungen, die eben auch mit globalisierung verbunden sind, noch besser abfedern kann, damit die menschen spüren, europa steht ihnen zur seite, wenn veränderungen anstehen. wofür ich dankbar bin, ist, dass sie mut gemacht haben, dass sie nicht angst gemacht haben, gerade bei handelsfragen, beim öffnen von märkten, bei der internationalen zusammenarbeit, dass wir das anpacken müssen und dass wir da mut machen müssen. das zweite, was viele menschen mit schweden verbinden, hatten sie auch angesprochen: das ist greta thunberg, die wirklich vielen menschen motivation gibt. über eine million junger menschen auf den straßen, zweitausend städte, in denen die demonstrationen stattfanden. umweltschutz – in ihrem anliegen jetzt klimaschutz als priorität, aber im weiteren sinne umweltschutz als das große thema. und ich möchte ein thema herausgreifen, das neben dem klimawandel sicher auch eine der prioritäten der nächsten zeit werden muss, nämlich die frage, wie wir mit plastik umgehen. wir haben letzte woche im europäischen parlament das verbot von einwegplastik beschlossen. wir dürfen uns jetzt aber nicht darauf ausruhen, dass wir als europäer hier einen guten beschluss gefasst haben. wir müssen überlegen, ob wir, ähnlich wie beim klimaschutz, jetzt auch internationale initiativen starten. warum sollte man für das verbot von einwegplastik nicht einen ähnlichen weg gehen, wie wir es beim übereinkommen von paris gemacht haben, nämlich dass wir internationale lösungen brauchen? wir alle wissen, dass der ozean nicht geschützt werden kann, wenn nur europa handelt. wir brauchen dafür jetzt die kraft, international anstöße zu geben. und so, wie wir beim klimawandel stolz darauf sein können, dass europa der führende kontinent war, so können wir jetzt auch in fragen plastikverbot auf internationaler ebene initiativen starten, mit dem, was wir in europa vorleben, jetzt auf internationaler ebene arbeiten, zeigen, wozu europa gemeinsam imstande ist. insofern danke für die schwedischen beiträge, danke für die anregungen! ich glaube, dass schweden wesentliche anstöße für die zukunft europas geben kann.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to thank prime minister stefan löfven for the great speech today; and many, many thanks for all the gifts that the swedish nation, swedish society, has given to europe and to the world in the past. yes, one of the strongest social welfare systems in the world. yes, a huge tradition of social compromise, strong trade unions and, from the early days of your democracy, the capacity to strike alliances between different social groups in your society. what you have done during the last decades is also built on this early compromise encompassing both industrial workers, in metropolitan areas especially, and farmers and rural areas, for the value of nature, the value of natural resources, has always been acknowledged in the swedish debate. that makes you prominent. that puts you in the front row when it comes to the answers today to the challenges to europe and the challenges to the world – sustainability and also fairness, equality, especially with respect to gender, and acceptance – not only acceptance, but the idea – of the necessity of putting women on an equal footing and granting them full rights in civic life as well as in the labour market. so you can find the swedes in the lead in this modern world, and we can also see that from the very issues of our debates today. greta thunberg has rightly mentioned, and we have praised, the commitment of the young generation. but there is a direct line to gothenburg and the summit in 2001, when we saw antónio guterres, under the portuguese presidency in 2000, coming forward with this grand idea – i would still say grand idea – of the lisbon strategy to have a new modern, holistic approach to economic policy. and it was the swedish government which, a year later, added sustainability as a crucial element in this discussion. gothenburg 2001, the gothenburg of the social pillar and now greta thunberg, always leading the progressive discourse. my neighbour to the right, ms maria joão rodrigues, had the pleasure – and we thank you very much for that – of contributing to both gothenburgs, as an essential player. so this was well done and still makes us proud today. nachhaltigkeit, liebe kolleginnen und kollegen, ist das thema, dem sich meine fraktion verschrieben hat. denn wir werden europa nur dann weiter in einer führenden position erleben, wenn wir unsere wirtschaftspolitik auf die erfordernisse der umwelt einstellen und wenn wir unsere umweltpolitik auf die erfordernisse der menschen, der arbeit und des sozialen zusammenhalts einstellen. das ist die politik meiner fraktion. von dieser politik, herr vizepräsident der kommission, möchten wir gerne haben, dass sie die dominante politik der nächsten fünf jahre der europäischen kommission wird. deswegen kämpfen wir für das szenario 1 der nachhaltigkeit, wenn es darum geht, unsere wirtschaftspolitischen instrumente zu renovieren, weil wir nur mit einer inklusiven politik, nur mit einem ganzheitlichen entwurf das leisten können, wozu europa aufgerufen ist. ich danke dem ministerpräsidenten von schweden, weil er deutlich gemacht hat, dass idealismus keine altersfrage ist, sondern eine frage des herzens, unseres verstandes, unseres lebensgefühls. ich habe nur eine bitte, weil mir das gelegentlich sorgen macht: ich weiß um die stärke unserer nordischen mitgliedsländer, ich weiß um ihre kraft, ich weiß um ihre historischen errungenschaften. ich habe nur eine bitte an stefan löfven, wenn wir alles das sehen: seid nicht ungeduldig! seid nicht ungeduldig mit den anderen mitgliedstaaten in der europäischen union – auch wir, auch alle anderen müssen sich auf eure standards entwickeln –, und bleibt die großen internationalisten, die ihr immer wart, weil europa euch braucht. europa braucht schweden, europa braucht diesen fortschrittlichen geist aus den nordischen ländern. der darf uns nicht den rücken kehren, auch wenn es manchmal enttäuschungen gibt. wir brauchen euren impuls, wir brauchen eure kraft. bleibt die mutigen internationalisten, bleibt die mutigen europäer, die ihr immer wart! und dann glückauf für eure auseinandersetzungen – wir führen sie zusammen!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank the prime minister for joining the debate on the future of europe. prime minister, i’m very glad that you talked about the need to have a more social europe. indeed, i agree with that. i think the next level that we need to put the european union on is to have a social union, because one of the key promises of the european foundation has been the promise of prosperity, and we haven’t really been getting very far with that. while some countries and regions have been benefiting a lot from european integration, other countries and regions have benefited less, and we still have a lot of social inequality in europe. almost every fourth person in europe is at risk of poverty or social exclusion, and that includes 25 million children. that’s really a situation that’s not acceptable. the social pillar is fantastic, but the thing is we need to make it binding and not just have a nice declaration of things that we should do. we have to do them. we cannot, of course, talk about social justice without talking about climate justice and environmental justice, because it’s always the poorest people who are hit the hardest by the climate crisis, no matter whether it’s inside the european union locally, or globally. it’s them who are most affected by severe weather events that, for example, destroy their homes and their small businesses. it’s the poor people who live in big cities that will face more and more heat, and this heat will also worsen the air pollution situation. again, poorer people will be hit by this, while they actually contribute less to co2 emissions than rich people do. so climate justice needs to go hand in hand with social justice. just one example and one area where this needs to be fulfilled is the area of mobility. we need to make sure that mobility is climate-friendly, available, affordable and existent. europe is a rather small continent. you would think it’s possible to have a train network, for example, that connects european cities. right now, that’s not really working yet. it shouldn’t take more than 20 hours to go by train from stockholm to brussels. one of the things that needs to be done in order to have easily accessible and affordable trains, i think, is to make it easier to book cross—border trains. we very much hope that your government will back the proposal by us greens, which was actually adopted by this plenary in november, to allow open data for train bookings that would allow you to book your train tickets across the border without much difficulty. and if you’ve tried booking your train ticket cross-border, it’s crazily difficult. it shouldn’t be more difficult than booking flights, as is currently the situation. maybe a sort of skyscanner for trains is the next european big start—up platform to make it possible to have train rides within europe. another important issue, of course, is the emissions trading system (ets) for climate action, and there it’s very good that the swedish government, actually on the initiative of the deputy prime minister, isabella lövin, has proposed in council to cancel about three billion carbon emission allowances. that’s about 50 times sweden’s yearly emissions. that has been adopted in council, which is very good, because it finally contributed to the reform of the ets and at least tried to bring the prices for co2 emissions to a more reasonable level in order to really make polluters pay. talking about jobs, europe could indeed be the frontrunner in climate-friendly jobs, but right now we’re leaving the innovation to other regions and countries in the world. that is a problem when solar panels are being produced in china, as well as battery cells, and electric cars are being produced in south korea. it should be europe where this innovation is done. the climate crisis is real and it’s happening this is the one planet that we have, and there are also no jobs on a dead planet. so we need to act quickly and decisively. we can still decide how to make that economic transition, but we need to make it fast. (applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr prime minister! they have complained about inequality within the european union, and so have many speakers. but we did not mention the cause: the euro, for example, has increased inequality. the commission is an example of this: the commission has found that the division of europe has been increased by the euro. i have only two specific questions. the first question is directed at you: in his recent call for a new beginning in europe, french president macron said: 'without the euro, which makes the whole of the eu strong, how can we resist the crisis of financial capitalism?' yes, if the euro is so positive for all member states, why does sweden not join the eurozone? my second question is to the commission, the guardian of the treaties: in the maastricht treaty two countries have included an opt-out clause for monetary union: great britain and denmark. the danes have voted in a referendum against joining monetary union. the swedes also but that is not provided for in the treaty. this is a breach of the treaty and i ask the commission how it is dealing with this breach of the treaty by sweden.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, thank you very much for your speech. sweden is sending good signals to the european union: the social summit in gothenburg was such a signal, the young citizen greta is sending good signals to young people, but also to politics, and - as i said - your speech here in parliament is clearly part of that for me. first of all, i would like to thank you very much for making it clear that in all compromises in the eu, the fight against anti-semitism, anti-gypsyism, homophobia is non-negotiable, that these are values that we do not negotiate. i would like to make one more point: you also stressed that the young people who are demonstrating for more action on climate change and environmental protection are not the ones who have to find the solution and make the policy now, but that it is we who have to do it - we in parliament, we in the governments of the member states. and since you, as prime minister, have announced that you will be the first carbon-free, fossil-free welfare state in the european union and that you will also ban the combustion engine, i ask you to explain - also in the council and to us here - how the transformation can succeed, for more climate protection.
prime minister of sweden. – mr president, first, once again, several raised the issue of the social pillar, and i have the same answer. it’s not that we have the same opinion; that is not true. we have different opinions on these issues, because i believe strongly that social security is important – not least in the transition. this is something we have argued within sweden for decades, for centuries, and all the improvements that have been made have also been fought against by the conservatives. that’s true. that is why we also disagree at a european level. we need to have an ambition and make sure that the population, the people, in our member states also see that, yes, we have a strong market, but we also have a strong social dimension that makes us – everybody – winners, because today that’s not the case. that is not the case at the global level either. the case is that too many people feel they are the losers and that they don’t have a place in the future product. our task is to show that everybody has a place, and that also goes with social security and social responsibility. it is a common task. i guess we will have to debate this in the coming decades as well, but i do not give up. we need a social justice. when it comes, mr brannen, to co2 emissions and wood, we have another argument, and that is that wooden constructions and wooden buildings are not more dangerous in terms of fire. it could actually be the other way around, but that is up to the experts to continue to decide. i will not intervene in british decision—making, but i would say this: that we will continue in sweden. we need to build more using wood rather than other materials for exactly the reason that that was mentioned: the climate. so we need to use more of our wood. i do not think i cannot go through everybody. federley, när det gäller svenska statsråds närvaro, jag kan inte det i detalj. jag kan bara säga att det är klart att man ska vara närvarande så mycket det går. det är vi helt överens om. mr papadimoulis, yes, we need to do more of that and that is why we believe it’s very important that we have a goal. there was also another question on the same issue – what more can we do for the climate – from mr kofod. we need to set goals and that is why i said in my speech here that in sweden we decided that we should be zero neutral in 2045. we think it’s important that the european union make a similar decision, and we have suggested 2050, at the latest, because that’s the first goal. you need to decide that this is where we’re going and then you can adapt the goals for 2030 or 2025, look at the transport sector, the construction sector, industry, and then you’re starting. so you need the structure and the clear decision and then of course you need the tools as well so that we make it easier, also for individuals and organisations. but i can also say this: we have a lot of businesses in sweden and a lot of companies and enterprises that love to be in this project. they are in many ways ahead of us, telling us that we need to go faster and that they want to do more. so i think what it’s all about is creating the ‘people’s movement’ for combating climate change and making sure that we do our best for climate. max andersson om skatteflykt. nej, det är inte alls det det är frågan om, utan det finns ingen annan ambition än att här ska det betalas skatt. naturligtvis efter förmåga och vad man har tjänat, utan vad det här handlar om är också att vi ser till att vi ska ta ut skatterna nationellt. så det här är en fråga som är mycket mer komplex än så. men ingen tvekan på att skattefusk ska bekämpas med alla tillgängliga, lagliga medel. several of you have been touching upon the subject of corruption and mentioned different countries like malta, slovakia and romania. there is only one answer to that: corruption, wherever it takes place, is not acceptable. that means that, a prime minister of sweden or as a party leader of the social democratic party in sweden, it doesn’t matter who is guilty of what, we will combat that: nobody gets away with saying that they belong to a certain family. corruption and misuse of financial resources are never, never accepted, and i can assure you that we are also dealing with that, being very clear on that issue because this is about the legitimacy of democracy and of our system. we cannot undermine that so it doesn’t matter who is responsible. we will combat that. sällström om föräldraförsäkring. det är ju precis det här vi säger hela tiden. det är ju inte så att fördraget i eu har förändrats på en enda punkt med pelaren för sociala rättigheter. inte ett enda mandat, för då krävs det en fördragsändring. så de förslagen hade ju kunnat komma när som helst ändå och föräldraförsäkringsdirektivet har väl varit på plats, jag gissar nu, i väl över 20 år. jag kan inte i detalj, men det har varit på plats väldigt, väldigt länge. det är en sak vi ska vara väldigt noga med här och det är att se till att hålla jämställdhetens flagga högt. vi vet att om kvinnor skulle ha samma sysselsättningsgrad i eu som män så skulle vårt bnp kunna öka med 12 procent. det är en massa resurser det faktiskt, och det är så vi skapar resurser och ser till att kvinnor får samma möjligheter på arbetsmarknaden, i livet, hemma. det är det det här handlar om. det här är en jämställdhetsfråga och den är inte till bara för kvinnor. den är till för dig och mig också som män. den är till för hela våra samhällen. men inget mandat har flyttats från den nationella nivån till eu-nivån så att vi ska fortsätta att slåss för jämställdhet och där hoppas jag att vi kan kroka arm. we should not negotiate our values, i totally agree. i talked about the climate so we agree on that. mr lópez aguilar, on the uk and brexit we share the worry. we have to respect the referendum and what the uk will now decide and we try to be as pragmatic as possible, but there is also a line, of course. but let’s see what happens now during this, and next, week. ms gomes, on the moral compass, i agree. there was also a question about future financing. as i said, if we put more people into work, we will have more finances. sweden is a net payer right now and we’re fine with that. that’s okay. we are a relatively rich country so we can contribute more, and that’s okay, but we cannot increase the fees so high that we cannot fulfil our obligations at home. that’s not possible. so that is why i would say that we also need to think about how to relocate resources. we cannot just add new tasks and new missions and then increase the fee. that is not possible because there is a limit. but let’s relocate. i fully agree on drugs because we need to cooperate more to combat drugs, because that is something that will definitely – not will, is right now – poisoning our society. so the more strongly we combat drug dealing and drugs, the better for us. that is also why i went, for example, to europol to see what we are doing together here. we’re doing a lot, but i guess we need to do more. ms kirton- darling, about the trade agreements: we need to have trade agreements that also include these kind of rights and they are doing so. the agreements that we are negotiating right now also include, as far as i understand it, social rights. fjellner, inrikespolitisk fråga. men okej, jag tar den också. då är det så här, att sedan vi tillträdde så har polismyndigheten inte haft mer resurser. vi ser till att de får bättre verktyg. det sitter fler busar i häkten och i fängelserna nu än det har gjort på många, många, många år. problemet är att det fylls på i unga åldrar och då är vi tillbaks i det sociala ansvarstagandet så den ena sidan att vara stenhård mot brotten, det är viktigt och det kommer vi att vara. men den andra sidan, det är att se till att det är sån social utveckling för människor också i utsatta områden att de känner hopp för framtiden och att ungdomar inte dras in i brottslighet. de ska ha bättre skolor, bostadsområden, deras föräldrar ska in i arbete och det är det arbetet vi har påbörjat nu. nu går det snabbare för människor som kommer till sverige att komma in i arbete och då ser deras barn och ungdomar att det är den vägen vi ska gå. så det sociala, det mjuka, är väl så viktigt som det hårda. det är de båda två spåren vi måste förbättra och därför var det inte bra att moderaterna, kristdemokraterna och sverigedemokraterna röstade för en budget när just den satsningen togs bort. inte bra.
in writing. i share many of the prime minister's views and i am pleased that he is a strong advocate of the eu's core values. i also share his view that we need a stronger rule of law mechanism within the eu. because only if we live and protect these values ourselves can we defend them to the outside world. i also share his call for a stronger fight against climate change and for better environmental protection. the eu should take a leading role in this area in the world.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to start my intervention today by thanking the european parliament for its strong and constructive support throughout the complex and difficult negotiations. it has allowed us to secure a political agreement in one single trilogue, on 12 february. the european parliament strengthened the robustness and european union oversight of the new legal provisions of the gas directive. my special thanks reach out to the rapporteur, jerzy buzek, and to all the shadow rapporteurs involved. with the amended gas directive, we will be in a position to ensure that european union energy legislation will apply to all pipelines connecting the european union market with third countries. no such pipeline should be operated in a legal void or only according to the rules of a third country. this is important for european energy security, for european sovereignty and for european solidarity. in practical terms, it means that the key principles of european union energy legislation, such as third-party access, tariff regulation, ownership unbundling and transparency will apply to gas pipelines with third countries. let’s recall: the european union imports 77% of the gas it consumes, and the great majority of this gas, almost 90%, is reaching us via pipelines from third countries, onshore and offshore. the provisions of the gas directive will from now on be applicable to all these gas transmission lines, both onshore and offshore, in the territory and the territorial sea of the member states. this is a major step towards a well—functioning, transparent and competitive european union internal gas market where all suppliers are acting under the same european union rules. exemptions for new infrastructure are only possible under strict procedures and conditions. these procedures and conditions are already well established under the current gas directive. the european commission plays a decisive role and has extensive case practice. each exemption decision has to be approved by the european commission via a binding decision. the european commission may grant the exemption, reject it or grant with appropriate modifications. the text agreed by the co—legislators also ensures transparency and cooperation among competent national authorities, for instance by requiring consultations among regulators before granting exemptions for new infrastructure. existing interconnectors with third countries will be eligible for a time—limited derogation to be granted by the member states, for a period of up to 20 years – based on objective criteria – and all derogations shall be notified to the european commission. the final text of the compromise preserves the possibility for member states to conclude bilateral agreements with third countries on the operation of gas interconnectors, subject to authorisation by the european commission – the so—called empowerment procedure. but such agreements must comply with european union law and they cannot change the rules of the gas directive. based on the european parliament’s amendment, an additional step was added requiring authorisation of the european commission for the conclusion and signature of such agreements to ensure adequate oversight is in place. together with the previously agreed rules on security of gas supply and intergovernmental agreements in the energy field, the union has given itself a strong set of tools to deal effectively and collectively with our external energy suppliers. this has always been one of the main objectives of the energy union. i am looking forward to the debate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would like to say that this was a rapid procedure in which the gas directive was amended. it's not that - i have to disagree with my esteemed chairman buzek - that the gas market doesn't work. it's been working perfectly since 2009. we have gas in all the formations in europe: we have gas from norway, the netherlands, the uk, from russia, via liquefied natural gas, from all over the world. it's working! the question therefore was: why is the gas directive being changed? a question related to a single project: nord stream 2. we don't have to pretend we don't know. and i say quite clearly: the compromise is acceptable as it has been found. it states that the territorial waters of the port state, i.e. the port state, are decisive for the area of application. that's the interpretation. the commission has had rights before. it is still entitled to issue a permit, if it so wishes, under strict conditions. you can live with that. but i cannot accept a reinterpretation of the franco-german compromise, which was accepted by a majority of 27 countries. and that is why i say: we will be watching how it is implemented. the commission has launched several opinions it had no competence. then she changed the policy. and no one can say that the gas supplies from the neighbouring countries are unreliable. norway is germany's largest supplier of gas, while russia is the eu's. and if we say today that this must contribute to security, then we can postpone political reasons such as the occupation of crimea. but if we replace coal and nuclear and use renewable energy, then we will need more gas. and the only two disruptions in 40 years of gas supply to europe were caused by ukraine, not russia. i would like to make this clear so that we can make a proper assessment.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not mr buzek, thank you very much. i would also like to thank the commission and the romanian presidency for the fact that this important dossier has been able to be unblocked. my group expressly welcomes the fact that in future all gas infrastructure - old and new - from third countries to the eu will be subject to common european rules. to answer mr krasnodębski, we too are calling on the federal government to ensure that these common rules are respected. it has not been possible to stop an irresponsible project nord stream 2 . that was never the intention of this legislation; but it's getting more difficult. i would like to say at this point that it was shocking to me how quickly the russian gas empire has hit back after we had agreed. only days after the agreement, the russian energy minister declared that from the hour that gas flows through the nord stream pipeline, transit through ukraine will be stopped. angela merkel has promised, she has made it a condition for nord stream 2 that the transit goes on. i don't think she needs to be reminded of that promise; she remembers it. and i expect her to act now. i would like to say that i urge the european union to review its dependence on russia in the energy sector. because it would be damaging to our security in the long run if we were to strengthen a more aggressive russia by increasing energy imports and actually boosting investment in the military complex in russia with our money. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i am not sure that this is the case. how do you explain your statement that a pipeline with a maximum capacity of 50 million cubic metres - nord stream 2 - should carry all the current transport through ukraine with a volume of 115 billion cubic metres? how do you explain this technological marvel?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. first, i quoted the russian minister of energy. you might want to ask him. there are ways. secondly, nord stream 1 has not been fully utilised to date and further infrastructure measures are planned by the russian side. i feel the announcement from moscow and the gazprom empire is not only an attack on ukraine and its interests, but clearly an announcement that the european interests are not taken seriously on the other side, but that gazprom, that putin wants to continue to make politics with natural gas.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not "time is money". this quote comes from benjamin franklin, the inventor of the lightning rod. a lightning rod provides protection from storms, lightning strikes. these don't happen often. when they do occur, they often have severe consequences. lightning rods provide grounding protection. we should also keep our heads down in this debate. what am i getting at? we cannot do it again to the fishermen, that we cannot get the emff to be adopted as smoothly as we did last time. time is money! but we cannot do the necessary data collection and environmental measures that they have to wait for support. time is money! and with this fund, nobody can make a penny - neither the fishermen nor nature. the funds allocated to this are far too small. we are accused of throwing money out the window and throwing money at the top by funding overfishing and overcapacity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is true that i do not agree with some of the amendments and compromises in the report by the committee on fisheries. for example, i found a ceiling of 60% of emff funds for investments on board a member state more than generous during the negotiations. it is not just for this reason that there is the possibility of further amendments to correct certain things in a lasting way. and we have submitted them. the financial support for the permanent cessation of fishing activities leads to overfishing and overcapacity, another opinion said. does the report not also state that if a permanent cessation is supported by the emff, such cessation must result in a permanent reduction of fishing capacity and the support must not be reinvested in the fleet? should a fisherman resume fishing activities within two years, is the aid not to be reimbursed pro rata in this case? as mentioned earlier, nature cannot wait for funds either. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is self-explanatory that two and a half minutes leave no room for detailed analysis. in summary, there is no throwing money out of the window or hitting money on the head. i therefore ask you to approve our amendments and, finally, the report.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is not by chance, i think, that we have heard a lot of spanish and portuguese speakers today, because in spain and portugal, for example, we eat four times as much fish as in germany, where i come from. and that is why, of course, the fisheries are also particularly in focus. it is true that some speakers today have mentioned fisheries and not the m, the maritime. the european maritime and fisheries fund has been in existence for eight years, and the m has been added. and i think that's very important. we have a very good integrated maritime policy in europe, which says that we want to use the sea, but we also have to protect it. we must ensure that there are protected areas, that environmental aspects are also taken into account. and we need money for that. i want to emphasize this: it is difficult to satisfy so many different desires with six million. the outermost region was mentioned, the azores, madeira we heard. but it's also important to see how we can keep the sea healthy, because that's a big part of really fishing. i would like to see a committee on fisheries and the sea in the future. i think that's the best thing for the future.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not common and improved security features for all identity cards make sense, as they increase the risk of counterfeiting and prevent misuse. i would like to thank mr deprez very much for his work. he has successfully represented many of parliament's positions in the trilogue. the regulation contains a number of points with which i agree in substance. unfortunately, however, there is one fundamental issue which i, my group, cannot support on the trilog result - that is the compulsory fingerprinting of all citizens. biometric data are known to be sensitive; any retention of such data constitutes an infringement of fundamental rights. this regulation will affect up to 370 million citizens. therefore, a good justification must be given as to why this intervention is proportionate and necessary. i say no, the mandatory storage of fingerprints in addition to the biometric photo is neither proportionate nor necessary. the agency for fundamental rights and the european data protection supervisor also say so. therefore, each member state should be able to decide for itself whether or not to store the fingerprints of its citizens on the identity card. this was and is the position of our group. this was also the position of parliament and unfortunately it was abandoned in the trilogue. the member states which already store the fingerprints of their citizens should be able to continue to do so. yes, but we should not make it too easy for the home ministers to make such far-reaching fundamental rights interventions, which affect the vast majority of our member states, just like that 'through brussels'. if the ministers of the interior want this, they should explain it and represent it at home. i therefore ask the house to vote tomorrow in favour of the optional solution. we should not let ourselves be persuaded by the interior ministers to act either, because they themselves insisted in the trilogue that there should be a long transitional period during which the old passports would continue to be valid, so that passports without the latest security features would still be in circulation after 2030.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not with the exception of the gender regulation, which i also expressly welcome, this regulation is in fact one of the instruments labelled 'what mankind does not need'. in order to help terrorists and other criminals counterfeit passports and identities, biometric fingerprints will now be mandatory on identity cards; in one case, children aged six and over, in all the others, children aged 12 and over. only for the older students from sixty it is that they get mitigating circumstances, by their id cards should be valid longer according to the principle "do not trust your children, but the old ones already". now, about the fingerprints. the commission's impact assessment has not shown any compelling need for general fingerprinting. the second is that fingerprints can be hacked and replicated, as the chaos computer club demonstrated back in 2008. passwords for the pc -- to take another example -- can be changed, but fingerprints can't be changed after a certain age. once they're stolen, there's no way to fix it. and third, we don't accept fingerprints from 12 years of age, because these kids don't even have a criminal record. if id cards and fingerprints on id cards can be used for other purposes under eu or member state law, then of course the way will eventually be clear for biometric databases at the various levels. the bottom line is that there is really only one winner in this regulation, one real winner, and that is the id forgers' guild. they'll come to life now. i congratulate you on that.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not ladies and gentlemen, this regulation is now intended to bring more security to identity cards, but unfortunately it also leads to a disproportionate interference with fundamental rights, namely the compulsory collection of fingerprints for all eu citizens. this solves a problem that is actually already decreasing, because we know that the number of fake ids has been decreasing for years. mandatory fingerprinting in all member states as the fundamental rights agency and the european data protection supervisor have just found is disproportionate. the consequence of this is that the data-gathering rage of the home affairs ministers is again being carried on europe's back; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i hope that this mistake will be corrected in the regulation tomorrow.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, china is currently very high up on the european political agenda. this is reflected in the recent dynamics of high—level eu-china meetings. in march, the european council discussed overall eu relations with china in the global context and gave guidance on the future strategic priorities for the eu. the key task for relations with china is to have a coordinated european approach toward china as a strategic partner, but also as a competitor and a rival. the essence of the relationship should be reciprocity in all areas so as to underpin our common economic interests. the upcoming eu-china summit on 9 april will be a good opportunity for the eu to push for its core priorities, notably in terms of trade and investment, human rights, global challenges and foreign policy. indeed, eu—china trade relations, on which i will concentrate today, are part of a wider political and economic relationship with china, touching upon issues relating to competition, industrial policy and internal market rules. china’s model of state capitalism has led to a number of imbalances. these imbalances in the level playing field are not unique to eu—china relations, as observed in the current us—china standoff on trade. the situation will inevitably have an impact on the eu and we will need to remain vigilant. parliament, in its resolution of 12 september 2018 regarding eu—china relations already touched upon the various aspects of our trade and investment relationship. the european council also discussed this issue at its meeting in march. clearly, we cannot ignore that china is – and will remain – a very important strategic market for eu exports of both goods and services, as well as for eu investment. china is the eu’s second biggest trading partner after the us, and the eu is china’s biggest trading partner. generally, both economies are closely interlinked, including a fast evolving presence of chinese companies in europe. it is therefore important for us to reflect on how the eu can seize the opportunities that china provides, while at the same time addressing the numerous challenges in the relationship. we also need to remember that china is indispensable as a partner if we are to deal with global challenges, which can only be addressed together. climate change is an obvious example. we need close trade and investment links for our own economic growth and prosperity. at the same time, our economic relationship needs to be more balanced. here we come to the heart of the matter. a decade ago, our main focus was on how to improve access to the chinese market and deal with the different barriers that exist. today, the challenge of china’s state capitalist economic model is far greater as it creates systemic competition with liberal market economies. this had led to a lack of reciprocity and the absence of a level playing field in our economic relationship with china, which is pursuing its ambition to become the world leader in a number of key sectors, including key technologies. it has achieved this through massive market distorting subsidies, resulting in a dominant position of state-owned firms through forced technology transfer, industrial policies and non-tariff measures that discriminate against foreign companies, through poor protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights, and through strategic investment in key sectors in the eu or other third countries. in addition, the eu is being kept out of the chinese market in sectors where the union is strong, while china has wide-ranging access to the eu market, such as in the area of foreign direct investment or public procurement. unfortunately, in aiming at realising its global ambition, china has no intention or constraints to play by the same rules as other players. we therefore urgently need to look at the eu toolbox to address chinese behaviour in the area of trade and investment. trade defence instruments or the new regulation on foreign direct investment screening are important here, but we also need to look at competition rules, state aid control, industrial policy and internal market rules more widely, while keeping the interests of consumers in mind. we also need to see how best to navigate between us—china rivalries and steer the dynamics of the triangular eu—us—china relationship. the us has been clear in its view that china has benefited massively from its wto accession and thus it now needs to meet its commitments. the upcoming eu—china summit on 9 april will be a good opportunity to urge china to address existing asymmetries and the lack of reciprocity, as well as to encourage china to live up to its responsibility to pursue policies that support an open, balanced and inclusive global economy which is beneficial to all. this includes assuming its responsibility in the wto to contribute to a comprehensive collective effort to wto reform, in line with its economic weight. china’s engagement to reform the wto in certain key areas is therefore to be welcomed. for the eu, market distorting industrial subsidies should be dealt with as a priority. such subsidies are often channelled through state-owned enterprises and are currently not adequately captured under international trade rules. forced technology transfer policies are another aspect that we would like to see effectively eradicated. we should continue with our efforts to convince china to address these irritants. in this regard, i hope that the eu—china working group devoted to wto reform will start delivering quickly. bilaterally, the eu is currently negotiating a comprehensive investment agreement with china. this agreement is meant to be ambitious and comprehensive. it will be a crucial tool to level the playing field, rebalance our investment relations and secure equal treatment for eu companies operating in china. provided the substance is there, we would like to see the negotiations on this agreement concluded next year. the negotiations also come at a crucial moment when china is revising its domestic laws on foreign investment. these negotiations have therefore become an important tool to help push regulatory changes in china. the negotiations on a bilateral geographical indication agreement with china are now in their final stages. the conclusion of these negotiations will help ensure mutual recognition of geographical indications in each other’s markets. it is disappointing that progress has stalled, despite the commitments made by china at the last eu—china summit to conclude the negotiations by the end of october 2018. china has raised new issues and has backtracked on others. we therefore expect the upcoming summit to provide additional momentum with respect to both the comprehensive agreement on investment and the geographical indication agreement. this will be important if we want to maintain the credibility and ambition of these negotiations.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, our relationship with china currently combines positive engagement with actions to contain the distorted effects of china’s state capitalist economy. lately, there’s been increasing awareness in the eu that china is unlikely to change its economic model where the state and party have a strong influence in the economy. if china doesn’t change, then the question arises as to what we in the eu can do to change our approach towards china. to answer this question, in a recent joint communication the commission and the high representative have therefore reviewed the eu’s relations with china in five broad areas and proposed 10 concrete actions to better respond to the opportunities and challenges we have with this partner. firstly, we should engage more strongly with china to promote an effective rules-based multilateral order to fight climate change and to improve the governance of the oceans. the eu and china can be effective partners in doing so. we both realise the importance of upholding multilateralism as the best way of finding solutions to global problems. we also both agree on the negative impact that emissions, pollution and unsustainable use of resources has on our planet, both on land and in the oceans. we have therefore decided to act resolutely on these fronts, but can and should, do more. secondly, we want to deepen our action in support of international peace, security and sustainable development. building on the positive cooperation with china on the iran nuclear agreement, we want to work with it, for instance, on the denuclearisation of the korean peninsula, the peace process in afghanistan, or in addressing the rohingya crisis in myanmar. china should, however, accept binding arbitration rulings issued under the united nations convention of the law of the sea relating to its maritime claims in the south china sea. we also want to cooperate with china and promote high governance standards, sustainability and a level playing field in respect to investment and economic cooperation with third countries in asia, the western balkans or africa, in particular in the fields of infrastructure. thirdly, we need to achieve a more balanced and reciprocal trade and investment relationship with china. with more than one billion euro of trade in goods every day, the eu and china are strategic markets for one another. however, distortions in the chinese economy, where the state retains a strong influence, have negative spillover effects in the eu, notably when overcapacity leads to dumping. china’s state-driven industrial policy and ambition to develop domestic champions is also problematic when it leads to non-reciprocal market openness and an uneven playing field for eu companies. we therefore want china to deliver on its commitment to reform wto rules and accept stronger discipline on industrial subsidies and forced technology transfer. we also have a shared interest to conclude our bilateral agreement with china on investment by 2020, and aviation safety or geographical indications in the near future. finally, we call on the council and the european parliament to adopt as quickly as possible the international procurement instrument, which will help to ensure more reciprocity with their countries in the field of access to the public procurement market. fourthly, the eu must strengthen its competitiveness and ensure a level playing field in europe. let me be clear that this is homework the eu needs to do regardless of china and is not directed against china. what we want to avoid is having global competition on state subsidies. in order to ensure fair competition, eu state-aid rules limit strictly subsidies that member states can grant to private companies. however, they do not apply to foreign subsidies and wto rules on subsidies are less stringent than eu state-aid rules. this is why we want to reform and strengthen wto rules on subsidies. but we also need to be able to act on our domestic market. the commission will therefore identify before the end of 2019 how to address more effectively the distortive effects of foreign state ownership and state financing in europe and fill the gap in eu law. in order to promote high standards of quality, security, sustainability and social responsibility, the commission will also publish guidance on the participation of foreign bidders in the eu’s procurement market and conduct an overview of the eu’s procurement framework. based on renewed eu industrial policy strategy, the eu will encourage the development of strategic value chains and key technologies in europe, such as we do with the action plan on artificial intelligence. finally, we encourage co-legislators swiftly to agree on the horizon europe programme which will support innovation in europe, while also including clear rules on exploitation of results and reciprocal access to research and development funding when we cooperate with third countries. fifthly, we must strengthen the security of the eu’s critical infrastructure and technology. 5g networks will provide the future backbone of our societies and economies, connecting billions of objects and systems, including sensitive information. the commission therefore adopted on 26 march a recommendation for a common eu approach to 5g security networks. we have called on member states to start preparing for the implementation of the new eu foreign investment screening system that will enter into force in april 2019 – this year – and will allow detecting and addressing this year the security that may be posed by foreign takeovers of critical assets, technologies and infrastructures. finally, we called on the council to adopt swiftly the eu modernised rules on export control of dual-use goods. all these steps will reinforce eu resilience and security regarding potential risk in critical sectors. let me conclude by saying that the upcoming eu-china summit on 9 april provides a good opportunity to take stock of the progress achieved since the summit of last july and to insist on china’s more substantive engagement on all issues of eu interest. until now, china has continued to downplay concerns raised by the eu and sought to keep the focus on areas of common ground. its interest is in a feel-good summit with the eu to display eu-china cooperation to the world. however, a feel-good summit is only possible if china is able to deliver concrete results. we are doing our utmost to prepare well for this event.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not even as the public's attention is drawn to the brexit process, which seems to be drawing no end, the world is, of course, turning on its head. this can also be seen particularly well in the changes in china over the last decade. i therefore welcome the european union's prudent and wise response to this and its careful but correct change of foreign policy towards the people's republic of china. the new silk road project is a clear indication that china's authoritarian government is increasingly seeking to gain global geopolitical influence through its economic expansion. this should not surprise anyone, for states have pursued their interests for as long as mankind can remember. the crucial question is therefore simply how we deal with such expansion. china is and remains an immense opportunity for the european economy. so it should be a given that we invest a corresponding amount of time and energy in our relationships. but we should not be thinking only of short-term profit, but above all of the long-term effects of our present trade. chinese companies have more or less free access to the eu, and therefore we should have free access to the chinese market as well. the ultimate goal is simply to create as much of a level playing field as possible between the eu and china to the benefit of both sides.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i acknowledge that the commission's reorientation of strategic partnership, competitors and strategic rivalry has finally brought the real problem to the table. china's being a market economy with chinese characteristics is really nothing new. it's been going on for 40 years. and so i want to make it clear: china is not a threat, nor is it our enemy. colonialism and imperialism were not brought into the world by china. i think we all need to learn to get along in this changed global situation. this does not exclude competition. but we must define the rules together. the time for dictatorships on one side is over. china has completely transformed its economic system in recent decades. it is not that people are starving in mass, but that 600 million people are no longer living in poverty. the recipe is called inclusive growth. the market opening had to be done in a balanced way. do we have better recipes for the transition of 1.3 billion people? the forthcoming summit is a chance to discuss with china how we are moving forward to strengthen the global economy, develop new structures, standards and rules-based multilateral trade, prevent climate change, manage technological leaps and their consequences and achieve the un sustainable development goals. we only have 11 years left. and with our concepts of participation, human rights and courage for diversity, we have to bring the basis of high creative potential into a cooperation with china.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. a new wind is beginning to blow in eu-china relations. over the last 40 years, the east wind has become more and more massive, and over the last seven years, more and more unpleasant. it is a wind of radicalizing authoritarianism, state capitalism and the quest for national hegemony. the new thing is the determination to strengthen the west wind now, and this will be a wind of realism and european self-confidence. i want to make it clear that our willingness to cooperate is still the basis, but it must be a cooperation with clear edges. and we want china to pursue a one-europe policy, and we will enforce that. it is true that the relationship has been brought under the concept of systemic rivalry. this includes making things clear, like when xinjiang is the worst police state in the world, or when china makes promises at the last eu-china summit that it doesn't keep, or when china talks about multilateralism but only has a policy in mind that serves its own interests. we must act accordingly. and that's why i'm clearly against us allowing a well-being summit to be staged here. it must be a summit, as the commission and the council have said, with clear results.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. yes, we have different views on china. we have restrictions on investment by european companies in china. yeah, we got the theft of intellectual property in china. we don't have access to public procurement in china. we have a disparity in treatment between private and state-owned enterprises. and we have no respect for the ilo core labour standards, and the strengthening of workers' rights - which, by the way, has not been said today - is very important to me. that is the fact, and we should clearly call it that. but we also have to see that china has, of course, undergone a transformation: millions of people have been lifted out of poverty, china is a member of the paris climate agreement, and china's per capita carbon footprint is still about one tenth of what it is here. so there is a shared responsibility. and we need to think about how we're going to go about it strategically. and there is, of course, the priority of the wto, that we all keep in a tent and together reform the wto and try to solve these very points where we are at odds with china through the wto also so new rules in the wto area on intellectual property, on state-owned companies and so on. and secondly, bilaterally: yes, we must put in more energy to get the investment agreement through and also the agreement on geographical indications. and the third thing we have to do is not just be defensive and say 'the chinese are bad', but we have to be more proactive, to put forward our own industrial policy, which reinhard bütikofer and i have fought for a long time, or to review the competition law so that we can get back to the front in industry. so in that sense, for the summit, this means clarity, yes, but also cooperation instead of confrontation and not moving in the same direction as others around the world.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am glad that the commission has proposed a fund to finance customs control equipment and i thank the rapporteur and the other members for the good cooperation. why do we need the money for customs equipment? we live in times of increasing global trade in goods. new trade agreements with third countries are increasing the flow of goods at the eu's external borders, at our seaports, airports and postal distribution centres. in germany, for example, there are new fiscal tasks. in short, the work of customs officials is not being reduced. however, at present customs offices are not well equipped, neither with sufficient staff nor with scanners and other technical equipment to carry out effective customs controls. this is also the view of many criminals inside and outside europe, who have repeatedly and successfully sought out loopholes. this is bringing illegal goods into the eu, it is draining a lot of revenue from public budgets, it is giving pirates a foothold in many places and it is giving the drug trade far too many opportunities. it is not possible that we should not make good-functioning equipment for customs officers a reality, and that is still lacking in europe. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. the council has unfortunately been very reserved. the member states must be clear that the customs union can only function effectively if everyone uses their resources more effectively with standardised customs controls. another important issue is cybersecurity. the other institutions are now recognising the urgency of this issue on the initiative of parliament. member states must ensure that there is full control over the data generated by the purchased equipment and that possible hacking of these highly sensitive processes is avoided at all costs. we must not allow cheap devices of dubious origin to give unauthorized persons, companies or governments access to sensitive data. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's cybersecurity standards are respected. i am sure that our text can be worked on very well in the next parliamentary term. and i hope that it will come to fruition quickly so that customs can benefit from it as soon as possible.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the report by sophia in 't veld, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a pan-european private pension product (pepp) (com (2017) 0343 c8-0219/2017 2017/0143 cod) (a8-0278/2018).
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i really want to thank you for organising this very important debate on the pan-european personal pension product (pepp). the pepp regulation is a major milestone on the road to addressing pension gaps and democratic challenges and a major achievement in completing the capital markets union (cmu). it will benefit consumers and providers with a strong framework for personal pensions through a new product with strong consumer protection and enhanced cross-border competition. as the rapporteur said, it will not, by any means, replace public pension schemes. on the contrary, it offers new opportunities and alternatives to those who voluntarily want to use this scheme. let me express my gratitude to the rapporteur, ms sophia in ’t veld, who has invested a great deal of time and passion to make pepp a reality. i also want to thank mr roberto gualtieri, chair of the committee on economic and monetary policy (econ) and the shadow rapporteurs, mr brian hayes, mr renato soru, mr bas eickhout, mr ashley fox, mr gerolf annemans and mr dennis de jong, for your constructive engagement, persistence and faith in this truly pan-european challenge. finally, my thanks go to the rapporteurs of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) and the committee on employment and social affairs (empl), who have made extremely valuable contributions. according to our data, across the eu, people retiring between now and 2057 will need to save an additional two trillion euro each year to achieve a sustainable income in retirement. at the same time, european markets for personal pension products are fragmented and uneven – in some parts of the union, even non-existent. only 67 million out of the total population of 243 million european citizens between 25 and 59 years old have currently invested in personal pension products. the pepp will give all citizens the opportunity to save for their retirement on a purely voluntary basis. it will open up a genuine pan-european market for personal pension products, complementing public and occupational pension systems. supplementary pensions can only become effective if they are accessible for all income brackets. the design of the pepp will ensure that products offered are competitive and cost—effective, with strong protection for all savers. personal pension providers will be able to sell the pepp across the eu with one single registration, allowing savers to benefit from enhanced cross-border competition and economies of scale. the commission hopes very much that member states will follow this recommendation and grant pepps the same tax advantages as they grant similar national personal pension products, even if the pepp doesn’t match in all the details the criteria set for the national product. i regret that the portability of the pepp and the role of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) were considerably weakened in sometimes difficult negotiations. having said that, i believe that this is an important first step towards building a true pan-european market for personal pension products. the pepp is also one of the key measures of the commission’s action plan to strengthen the capital markets union. it will channel savings towards long—term investments and benefit investment growth and jobs throughout the eu. finally, i am well aware that important work remains to be done to define some key features of the pepp, through delegated acts. the commission will closely follow eiopa’s work on these matters and make sure that the resulting delegated acts are fully consistent with the political orientation taken by the co-legislators.
adopted on 13december.the commission has decided to extend the deadline for the submission of comments to the council's opinion on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1612/1999 on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men andwomen in matters of social security. the commission has already done so. i am glad that we can close this dossier during this election period. as the author of the opinion of the imco committee, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, sophia in 't veld. thank you for your kind and open cooperation. from the outset, my aim was to create a pepp that is simple, safe, transparent, consumer-friendly, affordable and long-term retirement product, and we have achieved that goal. the commission's proposal is more suitable for the internal market and more consumer-friendly. the most important point from my point of view is the introduction of the basic pepp. every vendor has to offer one. the key point here is that the basic pepp can also be concluded securely and cost-effectively via digital channels. my first concern was capital protection. the client shall not lose its capital in the base pepp under any circumstances, nor shall it be depleted by fees or other charges. we have been able to do this because capital protection must always be sought, whether through a capital guarantee or life-cycle risk mitigation techniques. a pepp is a pension product. this requirement is met by requiring the basic pepp to pay 35% of the capital in the form of a lifetime pension. the amount of the premium is calculated as the difference between the premium paid for the pepp and the premium paid for the pepp. the success of the pepp depends on the support of the member states, which alone can provide the same tax benefits as for comparable national products. i therefore welcome the amendments which say that the conditions for a pepp cannot be less favourable than those for national products. with this result, we are creating a genuine single market for private pension provision, which will benefit above all the younger generation and people with low incomes.
blue-card question. – thank you for accepting the blue card. first, i have to declare that after several years working with you, brian, i have always had a great personal sympathy for you, even if we disagreed on a lot of substance. however, i have to say that our code of conduct says in article 3.3 that, before speaking, any potential conflict of interest should be declared orally or in writing to the president. you have accepted, unfortunately, to leave that house in order to become ceo of the irish banks and payments federation. have you declared the potential conflict of interest when dealing with this file?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. one thing is certain: the pension, once said the federal minister of labour norbert blüm. today, nothing is certain. the pension is not even certain; the pension funded by contributions and the pension funded by capital are not secure. the reason that the capital-backed pension is no longer safe is the european central bank: there is no interest anymore, you can't make provisions through savings anymore. if there is no interest, there is no old age pension, or at least no capital-backed pension. the pepp does not change this major monetary policy error of our central bank. it is good and right to encourage saving. but if there's no interest, then the incentive is minimal. what the european parliament is doing here is nothing compared with the damage done by the european central bank's interest rate policy. but the way this is done, it's also handled wrong. because this pepp is too complicated. it is opaque, and it is overpriced, so it cannot reasonably be successful in the market. i'm just looking at what's being imposed here in the consulting industry: a forced consultation by salespeople who everyone knows are completely unqualified to be consultants. and thank you, mr. giegold, for pointing out the conflicts of interest. who has the biggest conflict of interest? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this advice is useless, superfluous, and that we make it mandatory makes the product expensive and unmarketable.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. a poverty-free pension requires strong statutory pension systems, good wages and a high level of employment. the privatisation of pensions is a mistake, as a united nations study published during the pepp negotiations has shown. this study ultimately calls for strengthening the statutory pension and ending privatisation. but pepp is not only politically wrong, it is also badly made. there is no guarantee that the buyers will get back what they put in. the fees are too high and pepps are sold by asset managers and hedge funds. the pepp thus does not benefit the young, the low-income or the 20% of the european population already at risk of or affected by old age poverty. linking social security to financial markets is a proven fallacy. and that is why my group and i have tabled a motion against the pepp, because we are opposed to the privatisation of pensions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have heard a lot of confused arguments against this pension product. it is quite clear that the statutory pension is the pillar of the pension system, and for good reasons this product does not provide any tax or financial advantage to the private pillar of the pension system. i am not against it, and i have good reasons for not doing so, because we should concentrate public support on the statutory pension. on the other hand, we have widespread fraud in private pension schemes, and this european regulation will put a stop to this fraud. this is progress, especially for workers and small people who do not get the best financial products on the capital market. i really don't see what we should have against it. and this has nothing to do with tax evasion, my dear colleague. because if you have earned a pension in one country and then move to another country, it is not a tax evasion, but simply the freedom to choose where you want to live. so this is where they're going to make a big fuss to get in the way of this product. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. that was a very loud scream. but i have to say, the thing is, first of all, small people start for me earlier than 1200 euros. there are many ordinary workers who are putting something aside, and why should they pay the exorbitant fees? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but what you're arguing is a kind of - i'll put it this way - retirement nationalism. this means that if you have paid a pension in a country, you should stay there and enjoy it. i think it is quite right for a frenchman to want to live in spain after retirement; that is quite right. and if the systems are different there, they're different. but this is freedom in europe.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 4 april 2019.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr david casa, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reconciliation of professional and private life for parents and carers and repealing council directive 2010/18/eu (com (2017) 0253 c8-0137/2017 2017/0085 cod)) (a8-0270/2018).
mr president, lately, especially with the start of the campaign, a lot of lies about families have been told in europe. lies: that in order to protect families, we have to spread hatred around lgbti rights; we have to restrict women’s rights, or we have to impose one single limited view of what families can look like on all of us. the latest: at the world congress of families last weekend in verona it became clear that there is an alliance of right-wing extremists, christian fundamentalists and conservatives who want to spread these lies in the campaign. i say the exact opposite is true. in order to protect families we don’t have to follow homophobic and anti-choice rhetoric. we have to stand up for these families. we have to give them space in society. we have to embrace all forms and diversity of families and we have to give families time to care for each other. and this work-life balance directive is an important step in this direction and this is the way that we should go as the european union.
mr president, mrs thyssen, i would like to thank you for your reply. europe can only become more social if equal opportunities are guaranteed for men and women at home and at work. my group has long called for greater equality in childcare and care for the sick and elderly. the european social pillar provides for this. the directive adopted today brings us a great step closer to this goal. finally, europe is making its contribution to a modern society in childcare and care of relatives. the work should be divided fairly in the family. at least four months of paid parental leave, two of which are non-transferable, create strong incentives for men to take up childcare work as well. i welcome that. with the new entitlement, fathers are finally entitled to 10 days of paternity leave. five days of paid care is just as good. however, paternity leave equal to sickness benefit is too short. we have 36% in ireland, and that is too little. the conservative majority in the council has prevailed. i'm not satisfied with that.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
mr president, we have not planned to have a debate on immunities. i therefore cannot give you the floor for further explanations.
this is a request under rule 190 (4) of the rules of procedure.
i am not going to go into detail. you do a lot of things for the first time. i have received calls this morning very early on about this vote. i can assure you, i'm in the car, and i'm planning to leave tomorrow, so i have all the time in the world. i would also like to say that there is a possibility - by the rules of procedure - of dividing votes into blocks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i know there are many different views on this. i would therefore suggest that we first of all vote on it and then, after a while, i will ask you whether you really want to vote on each individual proposal or whether we should go over to the block procedure. the rules of procedure, madam president, are to be respected.
i am not sure that this is the case. you're letting me continue to make that decision. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.) i am not going to go into detail. i cannot go much faster, you cannot go much faster, and the interpreters cannot go much faster. i have now observed this closely: we have voting majorities in the order of 150 votes to two thirds. the question therefore is whether we should proceed to the blocks proposed. (applause from the centre) let's spend two or three minutes on this question. mr marinescu, please.
i'm not going to let you go. everything you've said is being heard. i reject that last sentence with all my strength.
we've heard two opinions now. i personally believe, mr marinescu, that a parliament cannot make a fool of itself in one direction only. we could make a fool of ourselves by voting en bloc. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore agree with mr lambert. we have a possibility under rule 178 of the rules of procedure to form blocs. we have introduced this possibility for good reasons and i now give the floor to mr corbett, who was largely responsible for it.
i have to say, mr jurek. i don't know why you're complaining. we have not voted on a block in which there was a roll-call vote, and i was about to suggest that we vote on block d as a whole by roll-call.
we can do that, mr president.
thank you, thank you. i've noted that.
i would like to thank mrs kalniete. i noticed that.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. i ask that the amendments be put to the vote first, pursuant to rule 59 of the rules of procedure.
i am not going to go into detail. we now come to the final vote. i know it's been difficult because the situation has been tense and there's a lot of blood in it. i would like to thank the colleagues who were defeated earlier in the block vote for their understanding of the way we have gone. (applause from the centre)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
mr president, i supported this report, even though it was debated with some emotion here in the czech republic, because i am convinced that a report which will ultimately lead to identity cards being more resistant to counterfeiting is a good signal. by setting minimum security standards for european identity cards, by clearly defining the biometric conditions these cards must meet, i think we are only strengthening the free movement of people within the eu and thereby increasing the security of having people in the eu who do not have forged identity cards. the report says that up to 80 million europeans do not have such modern identity cards. since we have, fortunately, the free movement of people throughout europe, it is clear that this is an issue that the eu should be addressing, not just individual member states.
mr president, i supported this motion because it is necessary to encourage the middle generation to save for their retirement. at the moment, according to the statistics we have, only a quarter of europeans aged 25 to 55 are saving for retirement and will find out in a few years when they reach retirement age that the state with its continuing systems is simply not able to ensure a good and prosperous old age. so the eu is well on its way to trying to create more products that people can use to save for retirement. i would be even more ambitious in this product, i.e. in the future this product could be accompanied by a certain tax benefit, which is not the case at the moment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. he's not a tax-advantaged person. so the question is how attractive this product will be to europeans. so let's get him, but in the future, i think we're going to have to make him more attractive to get more use out of him.
i declare the session adjourned.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the report currently contains two requests for a grey area, namely the access of the anti-fraud office to members' desks without first lifting immunity. at present we are dependent on the goodwill of the parliament's administration, which only grants access if the member agrees. my proposals 142 and 143 take this up. meps must not be put in a worse position than national meps. of course, in case of suspicion, olaf has access to all the documents held by the parliament's administration. i think this story is so important to parliament and to the members that we should have the next parliament vote on it. i therefore ask for the vote to be postponed. and if we do that in september, it will still be enough, because the council has not yet formulated an opinion on this legal basis. if these applications were rejected tomorrow, the effect would be to weaken the office as a whole. i do not want to go into the details, but i would like to ask you to agree to the postponement so that the new parliament can deal with it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i do not think this proposed change of agenda is acceptable. we agreed from the outset that the new olaf regulation was urgently needed because it is about rearranging the future relationship between olaf and the eppo. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied. the last revision took seven years. we don't have that kind of time. the epp wants to change the agenda because it did not get a majority in committee for an amendment. i think that is completely undemocratic. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. we're just treated equally. in view of the urgency of the situation and the unconvincing reasoning, i ask all members in this house to vote in favour of keeping the agenda. if this continues, all fraudsters will be happy, not just those in the offices of members of parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i ask that we not accept this motion, that we reject this motion. it is true - as my predecessor said - that this is an important issue for the people of europe. but after long negotiations we have not been able to reach a result which has been accepted by the council, for example. we also have a situation in the european parliament - and especially in the committee - where we have very different opinions. there is no group in the european parliament which can be satisfied with this report in the end. we should take the time to negotiate sensibly with each other at the beginning of the next parliamentary term, and without pressure, the important issues that we have not been able to discuss sensibly at the end. we shouldn't be on a clock here closing anything. and we would be cutting ourselves short as a european parliament if we had the first reading now. if we were to agree to this, we would have to meet deadlines in the second step, which are very difficult. and then we as the european parliament would no longer have the possibility of representing the people in a reasonable way. i therefore ask that we take the time to continue this debate at the beginning of the next parliamentary term and not accept this motion today.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would like to propose that we put this motion on the agenda. it is quite normal that when a trilogue procedure is held and no agreement is reached, for example because the council cannot agree or does not find the appropriate majority, we in the european parliament agree to adopt the position here in parliament in a first reading, namely the position with which we entered into it. i have heard the argument that the whole thing is not mature enough and therefore cannot be decided. i would remind you that the whole thing was so mature that we had several trilogue negotiations. and if we are going to punish ourselves here and say: 'just because there is no majority in the council, we are not able to maintain our position', then i can say: 'we are failing! and i would like to remind you of your own words - you said that very nicely earlier, mr tajani: it is also about strengthening the role of parliament. if we reject this proposal, we are doing the exact opposite.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. commissioner, thank you very much for the proposal. it's about time we did that, too. it was just a pity that this had to happen under a lot of time pressure at the end of our term. maybe you should take a little more time. i would also like to express my sincere thanks to the rapporteur, who has dealt with this time pressure with a lot of heart and blood, and to the other rapporteurs, on behalf of our shadow rapporteur, geoffroy didier. so we have a guide to lawful whistleblowing right here. it is time we put this in order, with the conditions that have already been mentioned. i also think it is good - and this is now also expressed in the compromise - that we should see the law as the basis of our coexistence and also evaluate what is legal and what is illegal, and not have to discuss moral or ethical issues, but that here the law is really the basis of everything. i also think it is good that we have found a reasonable basis for small and mediumsized enterprises here, because the implementation costs for companies are extremely high, and that we have also found a way to reduce this, where we can come together, which perhaps can be set up through the associations. and i also think it's good that we've found a model of reporting that doesn't go directly to the press, but where you have to be guided by the fact that there are internal or external ways to make sure again. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to this. i think we can give the epp a good deal of support.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. today is a very special day for me: 28 years after i first entered the european parliament as an observer for the new länder, i have the honour of speaking for the last time in the plenary of this house. i would like to take this opportunity to thank you and you very much. i have always enjoyed working with you, ladies and gentlemen, because it has always been about our common europe. this parliament is truly unique in having members from so many different countries. and we've really accomplished a lot together. and we should never let that stop us from fighting for this project. never let nationalists and populists undermine or even destroy this common european project! we will give the green light tomorrow to a europe-wide protection for whistleblowers, a europe-wide protection for people who reveal wrongdoing in the public interest - a great success for citizens and a great success for us meps. we have been asking for this protection for a long time and we have fought hard for it. and it paid off. i hope that many of my colleagues who are running for re-election will communicate this example of whistleblower protection and many other positive examples from the daily lives of our citizens, and above all link this with a message: the europe project offers added value for all citizens, and i am proud and happy to have been able to participate in it.
madam president, almost three years ago the verts/ale group presented a draft directive on whistle-blower protection. this draft was the result of a concerted effort from civil society, journalists and politicians, and it was a reaction to the trade secrets directive that had just been adopted and has been a threat to whistle-blowers ever since. the draft we presented showed that eu action on whistle-blowers is possible. it coincided with the luxleaks trials, which showed more clearly than ever that such protection is also needed. one of our goals was to ensure that trade secrets cannot be weaponised against whistle-blowers, as was the case with luxleaks whistle-blower antoine deltour. in 2015 he was awarded the european citizen’s prize, but a year later a luxembourg court found him guilty of disclosing trade secrets – a bogus charge that was meant to intimidate. the legal hoops he had to jump through for a court to dismiss this verdict were long and taxing. now the commission and the parliament have really risen to the challenge. the draft directive we are about to adopt makes explicit what we demanded in 2016: that whistle-blower protection take precedence over trade secrets. with this directive, whistle-blowers like antoine deltour will finally be able to rely on eu protection, and i would like to thank the commissioner, the rapporteur and all the colleagues who worked on this. it’s a great step forward for the european citizens.
member of the commission. – madam president, the commission has made it very clear to this parliament and beyond, that it is following very closely, and with great concern, developments concerning the rule of law in romania. we have repeatedly said that romania needs to put the reform process back on track and to do so urgently. this means going forwards, not backwards, and abstaining from any steps which would reverse the progress accomplished over the past years. the commission, and in particular the first vice-president, frans timmermans, has personally engaged with prime minister dăncilă, and the respective experts have met on several occasions for constructive discussions and dialogue. the commission always made it clear that talking for the sake of talking will not be enough and concrete actions from the romanian side will be needed sooner rather than later. the college discussed the situation two weeks ago. regrettably, we have not yet been able to conclude that romania is back on the right track. if our concerns are not met, the commission will have to act, and to use the means at its disposal. today’s discussion is not about technical issues or to update you that against the backdrop of already clear backtracking identified in november, progress on the cvm (cooperation and verification mechanism) recommendations has been stalled, or to discuss that the latest romanian legislative developments transposing a number of eu directives could raise concerns about potential incompatibility with eu law, or to mention further eroding confidence through recent executive ordinances and controversial appointment procedures. the situation around the nomination procedure for the next european public prosecutor’s office chief has also not contributed. today’s discussion is about very real risks of further steps backwards in romania regarding the rule of law and, more specifically, as regards the independence of the judiciary and the fight against corruption. first, the possible amendments of the criminal code and the criminal procedure code: such fundamental issues need careful preparation, widespread consultation of the magistracy and stakeholders, and a very clear understanding of the consequences of change. any the action taken should be compatible with eu law and international obligations, as well as cvm recommendations such as the fight against corruption. the romanian authorities would be taking a risk in moving ahead without such a process and this might lead to creating a systemic, de facto impunity for high office holders who were sentenced for corruption. second, regarding the high court of cassation and justice and a possible follow-up to a constitutional court judgment that has required changes to the composition of panels of five judges: there are serious questions about what is needed for the follow-up and these cannot be separated from the potential consequences of re-opening past cases, something which in itself could amount to a massive interference in the independence of the judiciary. the risk of massive disruption to the romanian criminal justice system, including many corruption cases, cannot be ignored. third, the issue of appointments of prosecutors and, in particular, the need for a robust and independent system of appointing top prosecutors: this is not a new issue but the checks and balances have been successively watered down. the result is highly controversial procedures to appoint top prosecutors, the prosecutor general and the chief anti-corruption prosecutor. fourth, the special prosecution section set up to investigate magistrates: concerns about the structure had previously been raised in the cvm report by the venice commission and by the anti-corruption body greco. yet, the government is reinforcing this structure. all these elements, all of them, raise major concerns taken separately. together, they start to amount to a very worrying pattern. recent months have been characterised by a very volatile situation in romania, with a series of rushed decisions being taken on essential matters. if these concerns are not met, the commission will have to act and to use all the means at its disposal. the commission therefore urges romania to take time to consult, getting as close as possible to a consensus and drawing on advice from the venice commission as well as from the cvm process. it is not too late for romania to revert to the path of reform.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. unfortunately, the presidency of the council cannot be welcomed, although there are many good reasons why this presidency of the council in particular sounds like it. commissioner, we have to face the fact that romania is leading the european union, and i am already worried and deeply concerned, because we have never seen a collapse of the rule of law in such a rapid sequence. what romania is doing is something no other country in the european union has done. i hope the romanians want it to be a singular story. it would be good if the s&ds would take an early and much more decisive stand on this matter which is taking place in romania. i can only advise the commission: we recommend the article 7 procedure. we also advise that funds be withheld because we can no longer protect the funds in the face of the collapse of the rule of law. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the romanian government is a perpetrator and it creates victims, and the first victim is the independent judiciary. it is thus promoting corruption on a considerable scale. we see a socialist parliamentary chairman and party leader convicted in the first instance of fraud bearing a great deal of responsibility for it. this story needs to be addressed, also by the s&d, because i think that double standards would be very bad here. we see a constitutional court dealing with his case and facing considerable pressure. we are seeing a shift in the appeal process, we are seeing the former prosecutor general kövesi being overwhelmed by new trials and new and shady charges, and being subjected to enormous pressure - here too an act of revenge. she is the candidate of the two committees responsible for the new european public prosecutor's office and she is the candidate of the selection panel. unfortunately, the council has done little - nothing - to sanction these machinations of the council presidency. the council therefore has a clear responsibility. he is prepared to reward romania for these attacks on the rule of law. and that is something that absolutely must be rejected. the french candidate cannot therefore become the first european prosecutor. his candidacy is the fig leaf behind which unprecedented violations of the law and the romanian candidate for the parliament are hidden. the european union has a long-standing commitment to the rule of law and to the rule of law. it is about the credibility of europe and also the credibility of the commission and the first vice-president. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for asking. i have not complained that the constitutional court has politicians as members. the question is whether these politicians are following the law. i have defended the constitutional court because it is under such pressure from individual politicians at the moment. that's what this is about. i would also like to say that it is high time that the socialist group took a stand on this. and why are all romanians always allowed to vote when it comes to romanian issues? this is a matter for the whole of europe. we have seen it with the candidate for the court of auditors, who has not at least told us the truth about the companies he owns and receives european funds. we saw it with the attorney general candidate. when will the s&d group finally dare to consider romanian issues as european issues? it's not the romanians' business.
i have to say, madam president, the rules to be adopted to facilitate the crossborder distribution of investment funds are an important step towards removing barriers to the internal market. they promote communication and transparency and lead to a more integrated market. the increase in competition allows financial services providers to offer a wider range of services. this creates more opportunities for investors, which in turn has a positive impact on financing conditions, both for individuals and for companies, especially smes. i say this not only as an economic and financial politician but also as a development politician. our involvement should go beyond the borders of europe and promote prosperity among our partners. i therefore consider it a duty to provide for and support businesses and their crossborder cooperation and i welcome the proposal to use sme growth markets, alongside the present proposal. just as improved access to the capital market will make it easier for firms to seek financing there, the appropriate cross-border distribution of investment funds will enable financial service providers to fulfil their important role as intermediaries.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank you for the excellent cooperation that has been established over the past two and a half years, two and a half years of balancing interests and bringing together ideas that were at first totally different. ideas about how we're going to make europe safer, how we're going to get the world out of the firing line after the 2008 banking crisis, which cost taxpayers 2 trillion euros. i would like to thank the rapporteurs othmar karas, caroline nagtegaal of the alde group, sven giegold of the green group, ashley fox and the other rapporteurs, and in particular the staff of the european commission and vice-president dombrovskis. we have been fortunate in that the commission, in difficult negotiations, in difficult times, with its staff - it can be said literally - has been available day and night to help us find the best compromise possible. and what we've achieved is this: we have introduced key elements in banking supervision that were not there before, by implementing the basel committee on banking supervision's decisions. we have introduced a leverage ratio, which means a limitation of the banks' debt, a final safeguard for a minimum capital ceiling. we've added a premium for global systemically important banks. we have introduced the guarantee of the long-term liquidity and solvency of banks by introducing a structural liquidity ratio. we have ensured that, by implementing the tlac standard, that the banks that are failing, especially the big international banks, can be wound up in the future and the taxpayer doesn't have to go and, and, and, and. but what was particularly important to me personally was that here, for the first time, we have introduced a principle that is, for me, a bridgehead for the future, a bridgehead that we need to build on in the next few years, something that ensures that we have a level playing field for all banks in europe, but not by having the same rules for all, but by differentiation. we have failed in the past to take account of the fact that small, low-risk, locally active banks are now being treated differently from large, internationally more risky banks. we have failed in the past to ensure that they are relieved of bureaucracy where possible and not put under additional burdens. with this report - and i am grateful to all my colleagues for this - we have for the first time succeeded in providing all banks with less than five billion in assets and who can demonstrate that they are qualitatively low-risk, with so much relief from bureaucratic burdens that we hope that in future we will no longer hear that the result of overbureaucratisation is forced mergers, because small banks simply did not get along with the previous regulatory framework. we have succeeded in our vision of a single european reporting system, hopefully for the future, in ensuring that there is reliability when smaller banks and others are faced with inquiries which in the past have meant that on mondays, tuesdays and wednesdays the requests of different institutions and institutions had to be met and then on thursdays perhaps one could start doing the normal work. our task was to make it safer, but also to take account of the different risk profiles of banks in europe. and i think we have achieved this in the context of all the parties here who have worked constructively on this, with the european commission and in the end, after many long and difficult meetings with the member states, with the member states as well. i would like to thank all my colleagues once again, as well as the staff of the commission.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, the banking package legislative proposal was adopted by the commission almost two-and-a-half years ago in november 2016. the proposal built on existing eu banking rules aimed to complete the post-crisis regulatory agenda. the proposal was a major step in risk reduction, and also fulfilled our international commitments by implementing internationally agreed standards, while ensuring that banks can continue to support the real economy. the council reached a general approach in may 2018 after intensive negotiations of three consecutive presidencies, the european parliament followed in june 2018, and political agreement was reached in december. so i’d like to take this opportunity to thank the honourable members involved in negotiating this package for their commitment and their political will to reach a compromise, and in particular the rapporteurs, mr simon and mr hökmark. your efforts and dedication were instrumental in reaching this agreement. parliament helped to improve several elements of the original commission proposal. you enriched the package with additional elements that were absent in the initial proposal, for example in the areas of sustainable finance and anti-money laundering. the package on which you will vote tomorrow includes important measures to strengthen the resilience of banks. for instance, it introduces a binding leverage ratio as a backstop to prevent institutions from excessive leverage, and it establishes a binding net stable funding ratio to address excessive reliance on short-term wholesale funding. the package will also enhance the rules on governance and supervision of banks and will give macro-prudential supervisors additional flexibility to address macro-prudential risks more effectively. in addition, the new rules also improve the resolvability of banks when they are in difficulties. in particular, the new rules transpose into eu law the international total loss-absorbing capacity standard applicable to globally systemically important institutions. this will set a harmonised minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities (mrel) that has to be met with capital or debt instruments of high quality and, together with numerous other enhancements, this will ensure that banks are building robust buffers that can be used in case of resolution so as to avoid a spillover on public finances and ensure a clear and transparent process vis-à-vis banks, authorities and the markets. at the same time, the package pays close attention to a number of issues that matter to the financing of the real economy. your agreed rules improve banks’ lending capacity to support the real economy. in particular, they enhance capacity to lend to smes and to fund infrastructure projects. in this sense, these aspects are very much in line with our jobs and growth agenda. the package also injects more proportionality into the prudential framework for banks. it will reduce the administrative burden stemming from reporting, disclosure and remuneration requirements for small non-complex banks, and in areas where we introduce new standards, we have calibrated simple but conservative alternatives for small non-complex banks which they can use. the package will introduce for the first time the considerations of environmental, social and governance risks in bank prudential regulation, for example through the obligation for large listed banks to disclose the environmental and social risks they are exposed to. and last, but not least, following the recent money laundering scandals you included measures to enhance cooperation and information exchange between prudential and aml supervisory authorities and the european banking authority’s role in this context, together with the esa review, those are important steps. this package constitutes a major step in completing the european post-crisis regulatory reform. all of these reforms together will make our banks more stable and solid. so it’s a very important step forward in risk reduction and now it’s time to move also on risk-sharing. we need to implement the agreement on the backstop to the single resolution fund, and we need to move forward with the discussions on a european deposit insurance scheme.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. after the banks had to be rescued with 100 billion euros of taxpayers' money during the financial crisis caused by the banks, one of the goals of european policy was to no longer want to spend taxpayers' money on bank rescues in the future and also to limit the power of the mega banks. this objective will unfortunately not be achieved following this amendment to the bank recovery and resolution directive. instead of imposing high and simple capital ratios on banks, the banks have been given complex capital requirements with a number of exemptions to protect the banking sector. the risky investment banking business has not been separated from the credit and deposit business. and instead of finally tackling the too-big-to-fail problem and shrinking big banks, german spd finance minister olaf scholz, among others, dreams of a merger of the two wacky giants deutsche bank and commerzbank, which would then have a combined balance sheet total of just under two trillion euros. but two old opels together don't make a ferrari. the stability of the banking sector would be seriously affected by this merger. the weaknesses of the resolution mechanism have been exposed in practice on several occasions in recent years. the question arises as to what a serious creditors' compensation should look like only in times of crisis, when this policy has already failed in comparatively quiet times. we need not national champions and mega banks, but more boring banking that is oriented towards the needs of the real economy.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i find this debate to be surreal. our lady is on fire! i can now, frankly, not speak about banking rules. for me this church is a symbol of our culture in europe, one of the most beautiful churches of christendom. i hope that at least the firefighters who are now in the field will not be harmed. what just happened is a tragedy for european culture. i can only say that i find this discussion quite crazy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. after the financial and economic crisis, financial stability was rightly the focus of the legislator. finally, it was about ensuring that a crisis like the one we experienced ten years ago could not be repeated. and we kind of lost sight of the fact that not every bank is lehman brothers. not every bank is as big and as tightly knit as lehman brothers, and not every bank has a business model as risky as lehman brothers. the opposite is true: most banks in the european union are not cross-border investment banks with huge trading books full of multi-leveraged derivatives positions. nevertheless, for a long time we have acted as if all banks were equal and should be subject to the exact same rules. it should be clear that equal rules for all do not mean equal effort for all. with the bank package, we're doing things differently for the first time. for the first time, we have defined what constitutes a small and non-complex institution on the basis of clear qualitative and quantitative criteria and therefore regulatory relief should accompany this classification. we are therefore making sure that banking regulation is proportionate and that we are bringing life into this concept. we must build on this success, especially as we look to the next parliamentary term to finalise basel iii. we must also return to the idea of proportionality.
i have to say, madam president, the former german president horst köhler has identified the underpricing of risk as the cause of the recent global financial crisis. governments and banks, especially in the southern periphery of the eurozone, have taken too much risk because real interest rates were negative there from 2002 to 2007. when interest rates rose again, these countries were over-indebted. at the same time, their banks had become distressed. it's a vicious circle. the german bundesbank is showing a way out of this vicious circle. the purchase of government bonds is not risk-free and therefore such bonds should be backed by equity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. they refuse. so there's still an underpricing of risk. the day will come when the vicious circle of over-indebted states and failing banks will become a reality and the monetary union will be dragged into the abyss. i know people dismiss cassandra's warnings, but unfortunately, she's right.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. although each of the colleagues who were able to speak had a very limited speaking time, many of the contributions have been devoted to the news of the fire at notre dame, a world heritage site. the european parliament has already expressed its support for the european union's efforts to promote the development of the european union. it is in this spirit that we have worked together for two and a half years now, and it is in this spirit that this house works together. if we look at where the major criticisms have come from today, if we look at the extremes of the left and the right here, i note one thing today: at the end of the debate almost all the critics are no longer there, but those who worked constructively together for two and a half years are still here today. and this can be a guide for the work of the future house, for the work is not yet finished. we are now reaching a point in the implementation of basel iv - that is, the finalisation of basel iii - where this house must make a statement: are we going to continue on the path towards greater security and higher risk pricing, while at the same time relieving those who did not contribute to the last crisis and who today remain stable and low risk? i believe that if we follow the spirit that has characterized the last two and a half years - that is, if we look at what the needs of the other are, what are the needs that need to be taken into account here? - if we take this into account together in the spirit of solidarity with each other, if we stabilise banks but not at the expense of each other's neighbours, if we seek security for all of us and balanced interests across europe, then i believe that there will be good cooperation and a more secure financial system in europe in the future.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, it is good to have this important debate today on sovereign bond-backed securities. sovereign bond-backed securities, or sbbs as they are known, are a novel instrument — constructed out of euro area sovereign bonds through pooling and tranching — that could help us advance towards a more complete banking union and a more efficient and integrated capital market union. they could in fact boost private sector risk sharing, especially across borders, and equip banks with an additional tool to diversify their sovereign exposures. this would further weaken the nexus between banks and their own sovereign — which proved a major source of vulnerability in the euro area debt crisis. as you know, the existing regulatory framework includes some obstacles to sbbs, in that they would be at a regulatory disadvantage vis-à-vis euro area sovereign bonds. our may 2018 proposal aims at enabling them, basically by granting them same regulatory treatment as for sovereign bonds. importantly, sbbs would, by design, not involve any mutualisation or transfer of risks among member states, as they are a purely private sector instrument for private sector use. and i also want to stress that our proposal does not alter in any way the regulatory treatment of euro-area sovereign bonds, rather our proposal takes such regulatory as a give. i also want to stress here that our proposal does not alter in any way the regulatory treatment of euro area sovereign bonds. rather, our proposal takes such regulatory treatment as a given. i would like to commend the rapporteur for this file, mr jonás fernández and all colleagues in the econ committee for their steadfast efforts on this file, which allowed a supportive vote on 21 march this year and i am of the view that a supportive vote by this plenary session, coming on the heels of the positive vote in the econ committee, would send a strong signal to the council about the importance that both the commission and parliament attribute to this file and this should lead the council to give renewed priority to this file.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. the present proposal to remove regulatory barriers to the market-driven development of securities is an important contribution to the stability of our financial system. the proposed rules will, firstly, create more security, secondly, create a higher degree of integration - this is particularly noteworthy in comparison with other products that have the potential to do so - and thirdly, they will create less risk to public budgets. the proposal transfers risks to the private sector, while at the same time helping investors to diversify their investment portfolios across europe and promoting the networking of european financial markets. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. i see the proposed regulation as a valuable approach to building on the foundations laid after the financial crisis. the proposal provides a pragmatic solution which allows for the continuation of the expansion with a view to achieving the objectives, but avoids going beyond the objectives and thus endangering the stability of the markets as a whole in the long term. i would sometimes wish for the same understanding in other areas. so let us have the courage to think long term and the patience to take sustainable growth measures.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the last financial crisis was not that long ago, and the consequences of unbridled speculation in securitised financial products should be clearly in the minds of all of us. and just as mortgage-backed securities have not made the financial system more stable in the past, so sovereign bond-backed securities, which can make the eurozone more stable, will do the opposite. they also threaten to increase the instability of financial markets in the event of a crisis. they will not be able to help prevent refugees from escaping to safe havens, nor will they help to remedy the design flaws of the eurozone. sbbs are merely treating the symptom, not correcting the cause. the political conflicts and also the design flaws which currently hinder a stable monetary union cannot be avoided by financial alchemy and technical trickery. if we want a stable eurozone, we need a central bank that guarantees the sovereign bonds of its members. germany and co. must stop draining the water from their partner countries with their unfair economic policies. we need public investment in regions that are economically structurally weaker. this would also open the way to genuine european bonds.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. this report on the reform of european financial supervision shows the value of european institutions. the european commission has put forward a strong report calling for us to have more common supervision of european financial markets. the european parliament, with its christian democrat, social democrat, liberal and green majority, has put forward strong proposals on how we can move forward, particularly with regard to consumer protection, money laundering and sustainable financial markets. we have made great progress in this area. but it is a sad reality that when it comes to banking union and capital markets union, member states talk about it on sundays, but do the opposite on weekdays. and that is why the internal decision-making structures are still not european enough and why we still have a long way to go to achieve a genuine capital markets union. it is very bitter that the german federal government was on the wrong side here.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for all your views and for today’s debate. as has been said, though the outcome is not as ambitious as i, and surely some of you, would have hoped for, i’m still convinced that this political agreement will help us to achieve more supervisory convergence in the future. it is a crucial step on our way to a genuine capital markets union, so once again, thank you to the rapporteurs, ms berès and mr karas, and let me ask you once again to lend your support to this outcome with your vote tomorrow.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have set ourselves the objective of financial market regulation in the european union, which is oriented towards the risk of the business model. this means that financial market regulation should be targeted and proportionate. yet for a long time, we've regulated investment firms as if they were banks. and this is despite the fact that investment firms have a business model that is very different from banks in many important ways, including the way they deal with risk. so for a long time, investment firms were not properly regulated. the new supervisory framework for investment firms aims to remedy this situation. it was important to me as rapporteur that we really take seriously the task of establishing a proper supervisory regime. and that means that we are not just adopting the new rules from the banking package, as some colleagues and some member states would like to see, but we are really thinking about what a meaningful framework for investment firms might look like. and in the end, it worked. we know three categories of investment firms. in future, the supervisory regime will be more differentiated by size and system relevance. the commission has also proposed that the bank should be able to provide a loan to the bank of greece in the form of a loan to the bank of greece. medium-sized but non-systemically important firms whose capital requirements are measured by reference to certain factors relating to the various traditional investment services and which capture their risks more precisely; and small and non-linked investment firms with a low risk profile and, accordingly, subject to a less stringent supervisory regime. this three-tier classification is at the heart of the new supervisory regime and better reflects the idea of proportionality, which we have already made more prominent in banking regulation. the new framework for investment firms is not only more proportionate but also more robust, particularly in relation to the third country regime. this is particularly important in the context of the uk's planned withdrawal from the european union, which has now been postponed twice. finally, more than half of all investment firms active in the eu are from the uk and thus from a future third country. the new framework will ensure that uk investment firms are subject to a strict regime after brexit if they wish to provide their services here in the european union. we have expanded the list of equivalence criteria, strengthened the accountability of third country firms to european supervisory agencies and given the european commission more scope to assess equivalence applications. we have thereby made the third country regime more robust without excluding certain mifid services in principle. at the same time, we have also strengthened the commission's accountability to parliament. we are therefore also hearing what the commission is doing. the investment firm review thus represents an important building block in preparing the european financial market architecture for brexit, strengthening proportionality and ensuring appropriate regulation. i think we have reached a good and sensible compromise. i would also like to thank all my shadow rapporteurs from the various political groups, the presidency of the council and, of course, the european commission for their good and constructive cooperation.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this discussion and for the different points raised. the discussion shows that reform is welcome. greater proportionality should help european investment firms prosper and drive more efficient capital markets for the benefit of savers, households and businesses. keeping some investment firms in the existing prudential framework, alongside banks, makes sense when these exhibit bank—like business models and risk features. an open but tightened equivalence regime for investment services adds value and choice for eu clients, while ensuring a level playing field for eu firms and avoiding the union becoming excessively reliant on firms based in third countries for the provision of some key investment services, notably in the evolving context of brexit. i have taken good note of several of your remarks where further changes could have been considered. the new regime provides for an adequate implementation and phase-in period with the possibility to review the provisions in a few years’ time. i count on your continued support to ensure that the aims of the revised rules are achieved.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, i would like to thank all those who have been brave enough to take part in the debate. we were just a couple of shadow reporters, mady. i would have been happy if one or the other had taken the time tonight. i would like to thank the commission very warmly. i would just like to say that what we have just received from the committee on economic and monetary affairs for reports tonight and put to the vote tomorrow will create a regulatory framework in which we can really show ourselves. i regret that, apart from the few who have been intensely involved, the public seems to have lost interest in it. we have done so much to make europe resilient and future-proof. that would have required more attention. but it seems that when you deal with seemingly technical cases where there's a lot of detailed work to be done, where you really have to dig in and really get into it, it's less of a headline in our newspapers than when something goes wrong. the solutions will be lost in the end. and i'm dying for someone to find out that we forgot something or that we got it wrong. and i'm looking forward to the complaints that will come in about how we've damaged the investment firm sector here. i would like to say that we can be proud of what we have achieved in this parliamentary term in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. we have done a lot of work in all areas, whether it's the tricky things like clearing houses, the derivatives sector, but also the regulatory structures and the investment firms, to make our financial markets stable and secure. i hope at least some of you understand that.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the tax behaviour of the internet and tech giants in the european union is well known: apple paid just €50 in taxes for every €1 million in profits in 2014. but the bird was recently shot down by netflix and amazon, both of which paid no tax on their us profits last year. amazon even got a tax credit of 129 million, so it had a negative tax rate, and that's on 11 billion in profits. no one understands that anymore! unfortunately, in this context, the fact that no agreement has been reached on a digital tax says a lot about the state of the european union. the legitimate attempt to transform the common tax law into the 21st century has failed for the time being. this attempt is not at all about demonizing internet companies, as german finance minister olaf scholz once claimed, but about tax justice. that's what people expect from us: that corporations and wealthy people do their fair share of social development and pay taxes accordingly.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. what we are seeing here is a real mourning for the european union. the european institutions have worked, the eu commission has addressed the justice deficit in taxing digital companies with a clear proposal. parliament has accepted this proposal. there was a very large majority in this house. basically, everyone was in favour of a serious tax on digital companies. the whole thing failed in the council. but why did it fail in the council? because some tax havens, some european-skeptical countries, supported by the grand coalition in germany, have put this proposal on hold. and olaf scholz is wrong if he thinks he can reassure mr trump by refusing to accept a european solution here and instead negotiating first at oecd level. this is a matter which all voters should look at very carefully. the grand coalition in germany is partly responsible for the fact that we did not get the digital tax, and i hope that many voters will take this into account in their election decision.
the debate is closed.
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute statement on important political questions (rule 163).
the commission has already done so. as a member of the cultural committee, i'd like to recommend an action film. it's called "collateral murder", and it's 38 minutes long, and it's on youtube. it was produced by the us army, released by julian assange's wikileaks distribution. you can see us soldiers shooting civilians, including reuters journalists and children, from helicopters in a suburb of baghdad, and the gunmen having a good time. the man who released these images and the underlying crime in 2010 is now threatening to be extradited to the people who deny and cover it up. a few weeks ago we agreed with the council on rules for the protection of whistleblowers who reveal breaches of eu law. i think it's against eu law to kill people for fun. and one more word to the british, who are probably in the eu by halloween: if you hand julian assange over to the us, you can have your stupid brexit right now, as hard as i can.
thank you for those words you just said. it's a real tragedy what's happening right now. i grew up in paris myself and i've been to this church many times. this cathedral is truly a treasure, and i very much hope that they will be able to preserve this treasure and put out the flames as soon as possible. before closing the sitting, i should like to thank all those who have worked so late: the interpreters, of course, the commissioner, the colleagues and the servants in the chamber, whom i will not forget this time, because their services are of course very important. that concludes this item.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, this morning we stand united when we look at paris. we rightly say that notre—dame is our case. we rightly say ‘paris, you are not alone. the french nation is not alone’. this is our manifestation of european solidarity. in this spirit of european solidarity, i have to applaud president tusk. you took the responsibility of granting the united kingdom this extension because, by doing so, you avoided a cliff—edge crash. who would have paid the price of the cliff edge crashing? who would have paid the price? not the liars, not the ideologists, not those with the false promises. ordinary citizens in the uk would have paid the price, citizens who have to rely on a decent job in this interwoven economy, which is more interwoven than it has ever been before in the single market. those responsible know this exactly. they were playing with the fate of the citizens in their country. this is wrong and this was avoided by president juncker and president tusk, by the european council, by responsible decision makers, and this is a good signal. president tusk, i also applaud you for what you were saying about the rights of member states as long as they are members. this is all the more true for the rights of the representatives in this house. this is not a party politics issue. this is an issue of the decency of our constituencies and the decency of our democratic processes. we will of course welcome our representatives from the united kingdom, and of course they will have the same rights as everybody else here in this house. my party and group will protect that, in any case, in each and every situation. ich bin davon überzeugt, dass wir auch nach dem 23. mai im vereinigten königreich eine neue diskussion haben werden. es wird der anfang vom ende des brexit sein, davon bin ich überzeugt, denn endlich werden die menschen in großbritannien auch die chance haben, sich zu diesem vorgang zu äußern. denn wir sind nach wie vor in der situation, dass das parlament blockiert ist. ich war immer der auffassung, dass man in einer solchen situation die menschen fragen muss, wenn der preis für den falschen schritt klar auf dem tisch ist, was sie am ende des tages davon halten. „taking back control“ heißt, die menschen fragen, nicht die ideologen fragen. machen sie sich das bitte immer wieder klar! ich bin der überzeugung, dass es hier um mehr geht. brexit geht nicht nur um großbritannien, brexit geht nicht nur um die anderen, die in der europäischen union bleiben wollen. brexit geht um sehr viel mehr. es ist die frage, ob die putins und trumps, die steve bannons und die salvinis das kaputtmachen können, was von robert schuman und jean monnet, von konrad adenauer und willy brandt aufgebaut worden ist – darum geht es im eigentlichen. und deswegen werden wir diese europäische union verteidigen, weil sie die richtige antwort auf die großen zukunftsfragen ist. meine fraktion steht dazu bereit. sie sehen in finnland, sie sehen in schweden, dass wir diejenigen sind, die europa zusammenhalten, wenn die rechtsradikalen dagegen trommeln. ich wünschte mir partner, die das auch tun. die europäische volkspartei muss beantworten, wo sie in andalusien steht, wo sie steht bei den nächsten regional- und lokalwahlen in italien, ob bei den europäern oder bei denen, die europa zerschlagen wollen. unser job ist klar: wir sozialdemokraten verteidigen diese europäische union und werden sie in die zukunft führen.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think there are moments when campaign battles should just be stopped for a moment. the fire in paris yesterday showed us how fragile our world, how fragile europe, how fragile our culture, our history and our future are. it's more than what we do here sometimes between ourselves. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i decided to learn french many years ago, as an east german, 45 years ago, precisely because i suspected that i might never have the opportunity to come to paris and see notre dame. i'm shocked by this. i would like to say to all the french colleagues in this parliament - regardless of the political groups - that we stand by them and that we also demand - demand - that we are aware of this vulnerability, including the vulnerability of the european union. that has something to do with what we're discussing. i do not agree with this at all and i am not at all happy with the outcome of the last summit. i think it is fatal. i think it is fatal because i too agree that either we will get a decision for or against, withdrawal or not withdrawal. but six months is: they are putting this european parliament and, above all, the democratic process of the european elections at risk. he had no part in your decisions, none at all. the summer break will begin when the new parliament is elected on 2 july. in september the constitution of the parliament will begin in essence, the ability to work. we want to give all our british colleagues who will be in parliament full rights. does that mean we have to make a plan b from the start, double-count the committees? it could be that a month after the ability to work is restored, everyone leaves, then others come in, then the composition of the groups changes. have you thought about it? have you thought about how we are going to get people to vote in the european elections - and this is hard enough in every country - if we know from the outset that this is a circus? so i stand by that: either the same, or you should have proposed five years - a whole election term.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. will we have a new situation in october, or will we be in the same situation as today because things have not been resolved? i hope corbyn and may can come to a deal. in any case, the house of commons should make an effort to find a constructive solution, either way: stay in or get out, if possible not go out with a hard brexit and not continue this unworthy game. we need in this house the ability to move forward with the big tasks of the future, with the questions we are asking ourselves - from migration to trade wars, the issues of internal and external security, the issues that have to do with climate change and many others. we must make it clear that the european union is the only force capable of saving europe, of moving us forward, of making us stand as a force in its own right, in the division of this world that the trumps and xi's and putins are operating, and not the fragmentation of nationalism that has been preached here again by some of the speakers. this europe stands for solidarity, for peace and freedom, for humanity, for economic success. and this europe has done this, i believe, in an excellent way so far. this is my last speech in this house today - after 39 years - and i want to say that this europe is a success story. when i joined, we were nine members of a customs union that was not working properly. today we have 28 members with a parliament that has everything to say. we had nothing to say then. this parliament must live up to this dignity, the power we have achieved, and this must be communicated to the voters. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the european audiovisual industry. i remember the pictures of president mitterrand's funeral there and a weeping helmut kohl. this was and is the europe that is taking us forward and leaving the evils of history behind us. let us not destroy this europe! president mitterrand said in this house that nationalism means war! we should always keep that in mind. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
madam president, i travelled with my bicycle via luxembourg and belgium for the very first time to paris, and i went into the church which burned down yesterday, and when i looked at it on the television, i had tears in my eyes. president tusk, you mentioned that gdańsk was reconstructed. let me give you another example of a successful reconstruction: the church of our lady in dresden. it was reconstructed with the help of the british, of people from coventry. i would like to support what mr gonzález pons said earlier, that it should be a joint project to help to reconstruct that church in paris. i think this parliament should declare that this is a priority number one for the next legislature: to reconstruct this church. mr tusk, you also said that it should be done by all 28 nations. now the answer must come from london – i heard it from you, and from president tusk and others. but i think there’s something you can do so that you get the right answer from london. you can make sure that britain remains a participant in the reconstruction of the church in paris under the auspices of the european union. make sure britain stays a member of the european union.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am very happy to be here with you before the vote on this directive, one of the key deliverables of the european pillar of social rights. i would like to thank the rapporteur mr calvet chambon, for bringing this file to a swift and successful conclusion. we have been under considerable time constraints to close this file during the current parliamentary term. reaching a provisional agreement would not have been possible without goodwill and cooperation both from parliament and the council and not without the rapporteur’s tireless commitment to seek a good compromise text during the negotiations. the proposed directive is a significant achievement for social europe. with the directive we will provide 200 million workers across europe with more transparent and predictable working conditions. we are modernising european labour law and adjusting it to the new world of work. as members of this parliament know, today a growing number of workers, and in particular young and female workers, are in atypical forms of employment with often very flexible contracts. this is why we needed to find the right balance. we must ensure protection for workers without overburdening employers and without stifling innovation, and that is exactly what we have done with the proposed directive. with the new rules in place we will first of all ensure more transparency. all workers in the eu will receive information on key working conditions. workers will know at the beginning of their employment – this means within the first week – what their basic rights and obligations are. this includes information on their remuneration, their working schedule and the duration of their contracts, and thanks to parliament, extra information for temporary agency workers. around two to three million workers that so far were excluded will now be covered. this includes platform workers, domestic workers, voucher workers, workers on zero-hour contracts and other short-term workers. however, we do not stop at information rights. the directive also provides completely new substantive rights, like, for example, a limitation on probation periods, a ban on unjustified exclusivity clauses, a right for workers on on—demand contracts to know within which time slots they can be called to work and thanks to this parliament, a right to compensation if an employer cancels a work assignment on short notice and measures to prevent abuse of on—demand contracts. and there is also the principle that mandatory training should be cost—free to the worker and, again thanks to parliament, that it should count as working time. all in all, what you are voting on today is a substantial improvement in the working conditions for all eu workers. we are breaking new ground with this directive and it will therefore be extremely important that we get the implementation right. the commission will work closely with national authorities to ensure the final objective: concrete rights for precarious workers, without unnecessary red tape for business.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am proud of the result. it is certainly a compromise in the end, typical of the work done in our house. the characteristic of a good compromise is that at the end of it everyone who has participated in it has perhaps one or two points where he says: i might have wished this differently or i would have liked to have put a different accent here. but in the end we said with a large majority in the committee that this is going in the right direction. i would like to draw the attention of the epp group to three points which have been very important to me in my work as shadow rapporteur. firstly, the new directive gives us more rights for workers and more protection, above all, for precarious workers. secondly, the commissioner has pointed out that the additional bureaucratic burden on entrepreneurs and smes is really within manageable limits, so that we can really say that we have also made a real balance of interests here. and thirdly, this has been very important for us as a group: we have succeeded in getting the legal definition of the term 'worker' proposed by the commission out of the text and into the hands of the member states. a uniform definition at european level would have created more legal uncertainty than legal certainty. i would also like to say, as a german member of parliament, that this directive will also improve the situation of workers in my own country - my own country, which is famous in many places for protecting workers' rights. but even in my own country, germany, the rate of wage restraint is only 52%. this means that millions of workers in germany will also benefit from this directive. what irritates me during the campaign is that social democrats, greens and the left are talking about a europe of banks and companies. all i can say is, where have you been for the last five years? this is an important contribution to social europe, and i am proud to have been part of it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. parttime work affects women in large measure, but mothers in particular. this is anti-family policy, because it could have been included in the employment policy. recognition of educational services as work work paid for in crèches, kindergartens, childcare centres and similar establishments; a salary based on the minimum wage in the member state concerned; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the pension gap, which we have not been able to solve in the area of parental leave, particularly for mothers, even during this election period. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think that we have a great task ahead of us in the next election period.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i welcome the improvements we have made. we are strengthening the minimum rights of 200 million workers, because anyone who has a contract can also invoke it. it is a shame, however, that germany, as the leading economic country, has the largest low-wage sector in western europe. it's good that we're giving these precarious workers more rights. the contract of employment must be available before the first day of work, but at the latest after one week. the fact that in future employers will have to explain why they do so after six months if they do not terminate a contract gives me hope that the dispassionate discussion in germany about the ban on unjustified limitation will continue. the blockade in the council, particularly by the conservative governments, has not allowed us to achieve much. a complete ban on on-call work would have been important to me. and it's just absurd that people who work less than 32 hours a month are being left out of all the improvements. the member states are still obliged to do more for european workers.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the labour market authority will look after the effective application and enforcement of european labour mobility law - that is good. it will be the first point of contact for national labour inspectors carrying out crossborder checks to prevent wage and social dumping. this also protects honest companies from unfair competition - which is good. the bad news is that we're gonna have to wait a little longer for this agency to be fully operational. it is nevertheless an important milestone. we would have liked to have had stronger control powers for the labour office. it is particularly regrettable that the possibility of imposing sanctions on non-cooperative member states has not been achieved, and i also think that the weak involvement of the social partners in the management of the agency is a mistake. i still cannot understand how the conservative and liberal groups could have ignored this. and we hope that the dispute over the seat of this employment authority will be governed by more rationality than has been the case recently with the seat of agencies.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. after almost 15 years, i will be leaving this house at the end of the term. i therefore have two reports here today, which are my last as rapporteur. the work on these has shown me that this house is able to build consensus and build bridges across party lines, unlike many national parliaments, which tend to dig trenches. many of you will be standing for re-election and will be members of the next parliament. i would like to appeal to all of you not to give up in the fight for the european idea. for more than 60 years, the european union has brought us peace, freedom, democracy, the rule of law and relative prosperity. we owe it to our children and grandchildren to ensure that the european project does not fail and that europe remains united. europe is the future for all of us. we don't have any others. (applause from the centre)
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the situation in mozambique, malawi and zimbabwe following cyclone idai (2019/2684 ((rsp)). the council presidency is a little late because it is still being held in committee. so today we're just going to take the liberty of rearranging the order a little bit. commissioner, you have the floor.
thank you very much. i see our colleagues on the environment committee have finally let go of the presidency. if you will allow us, we will wait a few seconds for mrs ciot to come and tell us what she wants to say on behalf of the council.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in libya (2019/2693 ((rsp)). the high representative is not here yet, neither is mr preda, nor mrs valenciano. mr tannock, you will then have the floor for the committee on the environment.
thank you very much, mr tannock. i see the high representative is just arriving. and i know that in this last week of plenary sessions in the european parliament, everything is going on and on. we're all aware of that, including my schedule. i am pleased to give you the floor, mrs mogherini.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it was right that the eu had supported the un-led mediation efforts for years. however, this commitment to a peace process has not been successful. but anyone who now hopes that one of the parties to the conflict will win and that the escalation of violence will lead to greater stability in the country is gravely mistaken. the eu member states must not take sides in this conflict. instead, it must be made clear to the parties to the conflict that a solution can only be reached at the negotiating table. the continuing fighting in libya is another danger for the refugees there. it is shameful that the eu, by cooperating with the libyan coastguard, is still helping to return refugees to camps in libya where they face cruel treatment. the eu's attempts to improve the situation in these camps have had little or no effect. now, in the current escalation of violence, everything must be done to save the lives of the people in these camps and to get them out.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. this shows that we have not had a western and european strategy since the end of gaddafi. we've made a lot of efforts, but we've never gotten a handle on it. it is not the fault of one individual, it is the fault of all of us. but we see that this is a country that has always been classically divided into at least two areas: the eastern region that haftar represents today and that now wants to take over the other part - there are good historical reasons for this - and that is on the other hand the legitimate government that has been installed with the help of the united nations and with our help, and which despite all the promises has never succeeded in bringing things together. i would also like to hear the possibility - perhaps the colleagues there can keep their mouths shut, sorry - that we have to say that it is perhaps also good that european countries have different contacts so that both sides are brought to the negotiating table. and when i look at the situation of the migrants there, these are other groups that are not controlled by either tripoli or haftar. and that is the catastrophic situation of migrants. mrs mogherini, under these circumstances, and hopefully under better circumstances, you can get sophia and others to not only save lives, but to take action against traffickers, who are the worst of all! i think we need to do more on this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are of course backing what the high representative has told us: all military options must be put to rest immediately, humanitarian ceasefires must be respected, and the parties must resume political dialogue and participate in the un-led process. there can only be a political solution, and we agree on that. but we can only have this debate seriously if we also make it clear that it is our duty to contribute very actively to improving the situation in libya. because we're partly to blame for the situation in this country. pushing dictators out of office without giving full consideration to the consequences is irresponsible, as it turns out. libya is an example of how the so-called west must not act. but, mr epitideios, it was not the eu that did this, but individual member states and other allies that caused this chaos. and it is the eu and the high representative and the foreign service that have tried time and again to make something of this situation. if we work together, we have a chance. if we keep pretending we're doing this together, we're not gonna have her.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am grateful to the high commissioner and agree with her that europe must not make the same mistake as us president trump in breaking international law and recognising the golan heights. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations with the palestinian authority, which has been a major player in the negotiations with the palestinian authority. the current prime minister is fuelling the conflict by announcing that he will continue the annexation of parts of the west bank and insist on the golan heights, after having already pushed the division of the country during the election campaign. the european union must, in these scenarios, put its foreign and trade policy on a strict footing with the israeli government. europe must not be made available for permanent occupation or annexation. the eu has unfortunately lost the us as a partner in a committed peace process with a two-state solution under the trump presidency. i would now like to make it clear that the european union must also maintain the status quo of embassies in international law. europe must not move its embassies to jerusalem as the united states has done. i would also ask the current presidency of the council to stand by the high commissioners and parliament.
i have to say, madam president, the entire biblical history of israel is based on the ancestral homeland of the jewish people god's blessing for the people of israel. the european union has a duty to help the palestinians, and to help the palestinians themselves. but europe has made iran strong. iran invades syria and increases the overall risk to israel in the golan. the protection of medina and mecca is a matter of course, but when it comes to israel, we suddenly speak a very different language. we must, as european partners, put our faith in a balance of power and pave the way to peace - and only peace - for the region and for the three main monotheistic religions throughout the world. and so, given the overall situation, there is only one reliable partner in the middle east: the jewish people in israel, the only state of law there, which has been adhering for thousands of years to a legal system that is very close to ours and which, in terms of security here and there, must serve as a very good example. un resolutions against israel are baseless: the european union has not done anything similar to the expulsion of the jews from the eight hundred times larger arab countries.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, the people of sudan are asking for change. for four months now they have demonstrated, not only against the dramatic increase in the price of essential goods, but mainly and also for freedom, peace and justice. the image of a sudanese student – a girl standing in a white dress on the roof of a car, speaking to the crowd – has already become a symbol. she’s now called the sudanese statue of liberty, and we europeans want to support this aspiration to liberty. the europeans want the people of sudan to succeed. we want their call for liberty to be heard and to translate into real change for a country that has already suffered too much. last week the sudanese military took over power and put omar al-bashir under house arrest. as you all know, al-bashir has been indicted by the international criminal court, and we have repeatedly asked to execute the arrest warrant. the military leaders initially announced a two-year transition to be led by a transitional military council, composed of different strands of the security forces. this announcement was quickly rejected by both the protesters and the opposition parties. they asked for a concrete guarantee of a much quicker civilian transition. we have supported this request, indicating that a military council would not provide the right answers to the people’s demands and requesting a swift handover to a civilian transitional government. over the last few days, the military establishment has tried to bridge the gap with a certain show of goodwill. the head of the transitional military council was changed; the head of national intelligence and security service resigned; and some political detainees were freed. these steps have signalled that there may be space for a negotiation. it is clear that, without a true transition, the crisis in sudan is likely to continue. to prevent such a scenario, there has to be a swift handover to a civilian transitional government with real decision-making authority. this would open the way for a peaceful, credible and inclusive political process to finally address the sudanese people’s demand for political and economic reforms. our first priority must be to prevent further violence. we welcome the lifting of the curfew established on the day of the coup, and we call on all parties to refrain from the use of force and any form of provocation. we also expect further confidence-building measures to be taken by the transitional military council, such as the liberation of all remaining political detainees and the reform of the security sector. security forces must be held accountable for the deaths and the abuses that have occurred in recent weeks and months. these measures would help create the right environment for meaningful political negotiations, so that all parties – including a transitional military council, the sudanese professionals association and other political actors – can cooperate in good faith. it is also important that the opposition remains united at this critical moment. let me conclude by referring to the fact that in our statement, in our positions last week, we referred to the position taken by the chairperson of the african union commission, moussa faki. today, i can only subscribe to the position taken yesterday by the african union’s peace and security council. the african union has demanded the immediate handover of power to a civilian-led transitional authority, which should happen in the next 15 days, and this transitional authority, once installed, should ensure an inclusive and consultative process to agree on the exact modalities of the transition towards free, fair and transparent elections. and, just like our african brothers and sisters, we want the transition to be managed by civilians. so we fully support the african union demand and position on this issue, as on many others. as long as this is not the case, as long as the transition is not managed by civilians, the european union will not recognise the legitimacy of the transitional military council. but as soon as a civilian transition takes place, the european union will be ready to accompany it, both politically and also economically.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not africa is on the move again. in algeria and sudan, people, through peaceful protests and with great courage, have achieved what seemed almost impossible before: they forced two dictators to step down. but people want more: they want a free society based on democratic principles. everyone knows how difficult it is to achieve this after decades of tyranny and crimes against humanity in one's own country. and the situation in sudan is still very fragile. no one knows whether the military structures in power in the country will pave the way for a civilian government. the eu is called upon to learn from the past. we need a unified, coherent approach from all member states, led by the high representative for sudan, to support the civilian forces in sudan, in cooperation with the african union, so that sudan does not become a second libya. first, the political prisoners must be released, and secondly, the rights of autonomy of the minorities which have been oppressed must be guaranteed.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not when it comes to protecting our fair, free and secret elections in the digital age, we as legislators are still in the early days. our actions are very late and are only the first, but thorough, attempts. i would therefore like to begin by thanking the commission for taking this matter seriously. but i have a problem with the whole thing: we need to curb attempts to influence our elections from outside. to achieve that, we need the dual-use agreement. the dual-use regulation has been blocked by the council of ministers for over a year. this means that our technology can be easily used by forces hostile to the eu to influence elections, among other things. i therefore urge the council of ministers to end the blockade here.
mr president, as chair of afet, i would just like to add a few words on the foreign policy dimension of protecting the integrity of our upcoming european elections. just in march, this plenary adopted the second report on the eu’s strategic communication to counteract propaganda against it by third parties. this report underlined how central freedom of speech and expression, as well as media pluralism, and identified moscow’s aggressive campaigns as the main source of disinformation. i therefore welcome that the european external action service is increasing the staffing of the east strategic communication task force to better enable them to detect, to analyse, and to expose disinformation. i agree with many colleagues here tonight, but moreover we must strive at both eu level and national level to defend our values and the fight of cyber and information warfare through a robust defence of our electoral processes. we need to raise awareness about these challenges, closely cooperating with the media, civil society organisations and social media platforms. and last, but not least, of course it is crucial that we improve the way in which we communicate about our eu values and policies. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr gollnisch. allow me to answer you in german. i do not know whether you expect a serious answer to your question now. i knew that a representative of the french right would not miss an opportunity to defend the russian leadership in moscow. i want to make one thing clear to you, and this was made clear in the report we adopted in march: there are massive russian attempts to undermine our european unity. and it's no coincidence that russians, of all people, actively support parties like yours. they should be ashamed to even attempt to defend these activities here in this european parliament!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think it is a good day for europe today or tomorrow when we vote on the programme. europe is becoming more ambitious. europe will adopt tomorrow one of the largest civilian research programmes in the world. and europe is addressing the citizens of europe with the programme. we are discussing climate protection these days. this is the largest climate change programme in the world: 35% of european research will be on climate change. we are concerned with human health: we want to fight cancer, we want to fight childhood cancer in europe. we're in the food safety business. we are dealing with the cultural heritage of europe. we are looking at new industries in europe, such as the digital and creative industries. this programme is ambitious on a global scale. the programmes for artificial intelligence, the ambitions for the new quantum technology, the questions of digitisation, production in europe are frontier areas, future areas of european research, which are directed both at europe's competitiveness and at european citizens and their interests, their health and their immediate concerns. this is not an abstract discussion of research policy, but the foundation of europe. we live in a europe of high wages. we live in europe, on a continent where we have the highest social spending in the world. the reason we are competitive is innovation and research. europe has been the place in the world since the 18th century where innovation, research, social development have been the basis of what we know today as political europe. the european enlightenment, the european social model, a responsibility for freedom, for the security of people, for democracy, but also for new challenges such as climate change, are expressions of this programme. but we must also be realistic about the world we live in. with this programme parliament calls for €120 billion for this programme the eu is moving in a rapidly evolving global competition. among the ten largest research companies in the world among the ten companies doing the most research is another european one. there are only three of the top twenty. of these three companies, two are in the automotive industry. a company like amazon spent 20 billion dollars on research in 2017. that's more than the entire european union spent in 2017. we must see through this programme - and i believe it is an important step in that direction - that we retain competitiveness, but also the sovereignty of interpretation in europe on very crucial issues. when we talk about climate change these days, we look at ourselves and say, are we doing enough? are we ambitious enough? what is our contribution? but we should also be proud to say that this research programme exists, and it guarantees that there is climate research. in america, 3,000 officials in the department of the environment have been fired, funding has been cut. china is not over-ambitious on climate change. europe is delivering. this research programme is of vital importance. and for that i must thank the other two institutions very warmly. we have delivered quickly, we have delivered in a historically short time, we are providing certainty for the stakeholders, and we have shown that europe can act together, act quickly, and take on the challenges in the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, and mr president of the council! the key to a successful future is investment in research and innovation. i should like to begin by thanking you very warmly for the mammoth task and the great achievement of our rapporteurs, especially you, mr nica and mr ehler, and all the shadow rapporteurs. mr moedas, mr council representative, it is great that in a short time 120 billion is really going to be set aside here to invest in research and innovation. mr moedas was right to mention the groundbreaking photograph of a black hole. i was at the world's largest construction machinery fair in munich on sunday and experienced what is possible only in the field of construction machinery in terms of research and innovation, to work in an environmentally friendly, climate-friendly way, to produce innovative, smart solutions. it was impressive. so it is right that with this programme we strengthen our industrial base in europe, that we strengthen our scientists, and that we also think about the people in our country and also tackle the great national diseases, namely alzheimer's and cancer. so i'm really happy great performance! if we adopt this programme here tomorrow, hopefully by a large majority, we will have sent the right signal for europe in the years to come: investment in research, innovation, in our excellent minds, which we have in all the member states - and i emphasize: in all the member states. that's the way to do it. thank you to everyone who has worked so hard on this program.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to emphasize two points briefly: we have heard a lot about climate change, and i can emphasize that. but we are also going to deal very specifically with the issue of co2-free industrial production in this programme. i think it's important. if we are talking about climate change, we must talk about europe. but we also need to talk about how we can be an example to the world. the chinese and indians will not follow us if we have no more emissions, but no more industrial production. that is why i have been working with christian ehler and others for some time on how we can build, for example, the first carbon-free steel plant in europe. and this program is helping to do that in a very concrete way. the second point is the subject of cancer, which is a very personal subject for all of us, including manfred weber, our leading candidate, who spoke in helsinki when he was nominated about the death of his brother from cancer. manfred, christian ehler and i have long discussed how we can save other families from this fate. we are taking very concrete steps in this direction by putting forward a mission on cancer and by addressing the issue of childhood cancer even more clearly in this programme. because children, thank god, don't get cancer as often, but when they do, it's especially bad. and only european cooperation can help us tackle this problem. i would like to thank all those who have helped, and especially our rapporteur for the epp, christian ehler.
member of the commission. – mr president, i think that tomorrow after the vote we can start preparing, we can start working on the strategic planning on setting up the mission boards and the partnership initiatives to guarantee that in january 2021 the new horizon europe programme will be fully operational. that’s what we are doing today. and let me tell you that i’m very proud to see – and this is the last part—session of this eighth legislature – that tonight, i will keep very fond memories, because from the left to the right to the middle, every one of you, with different ideas, every one of you converged, converged to this agreement, converged to the fact that we can really do something, that we can really change the lives of scientists, of researchers and the lives for the future of our children, so i will keep this amazing memory of tonight. thank you to all of you, thank you to the ones behind the scenes that have worked so hard for this to happen. thank you very much from the bottom of my heart.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i would like to remind you again, on the occasion of today's debate and tomorrow's adoption of the research programme, that europe is sadly, in fact, the island, probably the only place where we can still be certain of the idea of the european enlightenment, namely, of the freedom of science. if you see that in the united states the government decrees that research on climate change is not allowed, if you see that in china and other parts of the world the freedom of research is not given to that extent, then we should use the programme - also as a task for the future - to remind ourselves that the fight for scientific freedom is one of the most important tasks for the european union. and we should also look at it in a global context, that this european model is very important for many researchers in the world. i think it is important to stress again, even in the days of brexit, that whatever the decision in the uk will be, and we are looking at the decision in the uk with great concern, the uk is of course part of the european research community. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but in the days when the commission is often referred to as an abstract institution, a bureaucracy, i would like to stress once again: carlos moedas, as commissioner for research, has done honour to the commission and to europe. he has put forward an ambitious programme. he was sometimes more ambitious than the actual stakeholders, and in this respect it was a pleasure for us - although certainly a necessary task - to complement this ambitious programme. but it is a common achievement that europe has acted quickly and is looking to the future with determination and courage.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would like to congratulate mrs schaldemose on her really excellent work and to say on behalf of the socialist group, the s&d group, that we fully support her work and recommend that we vote in favour of the result tomorrow. online platforms such as the hotel reservation portal booking, the apple store or the travel platform edreams are playing an increasingly important role in the digital world. the increasing market power of online platforms is, however, also associated with a weakening of the rights of business users vis-à-vis the platforms. this regulation brings fairness to the platform economy through transparency requirements, through the prohibition of unfair trading practices, through adequate complaint mechanisms through effective enforcement. and the special monitoring centre for online platforms will also make the monitoring more effective. i think this is a good thing for small and mediumsized businesses and for consumers.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, in principle, platforms are a great opportunity for small european business. whether it’s a person who works as a software developer or somebody selling their own products, platforms make it possible for the small players to compete with the big players and to reach customers that they would otherwise never have reached, which is sometimes perhaps also a reason why some big european companies wanted to extend this regulation more than is reasonable. but platforms do become a problem when network effects make them so large that they can dictate unfair terms to their business customers. we have achieved a regulation that provides transparency and fairness in the platform market, and i think it’s to a great extent testimony to the steady hand of the rapporteur, mrs schaldemose, who has ensured that there is no free ride for platforms but that there are also no unreasonable obligations that would kill the small players in the european market, who are very important for european businesses. so i would really like to thank all who have contributed on this work. it’s great to see that there can be such great consensus on the platforms file.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the members of this parliament once again for their comments and observations. i would like to stress once again, on behalf of the commission, that we welcome the agreement reached on this regulation. as you also said, and rightly so, it reflects a good balance between different political views and stakeholder interests. a vote in favour of this regulation will therefore send a strong and clear message to smes and european citizens that the european union is capable of ensuring greater transparency and predictability in the online platform environment. once again, i thank mrs schaldemose, the rapporteur, and all those who have contributed to this dossier so that it can move forward quickly. in conclusion, we can say that through our joint work we have made a significant step forward for the digital single market, businesses and citizens of the union.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by thanking rapporteur mr dalton, the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) for their hard work, which allowed for a swift agreement on this extremely important file. it goes well beyond the commission’s proposal on many aspects. i would like to thank parliament for its strong push to improve consumer rights, especially in relation to digital markets. but, in addition, this directive will strengthen the enforcement of consumer rights as we are providing more harmonised sanctions with teeth. consumer authorities in all 28 member states will be able to fine companies harming consumers in several or all member states up to 4% of their annual turnover. victims of unfair practices will be equipped to claim remedies from traders, such as terminating the contract or compensation of damages. this will also facilitate out—of—court and in—court disputes. the new directive will also introduce a number of new measures to avoid misleading consumers online and to improve online transparency. we prohibit the displaying of fake consumer reviews. we require a clear indication of commercial sponsoring when it is used in the ranking of goods in market places. there will be no more fake price reductions for goods fooling consumers, and there must be a clear indication that, even if a consumer agreed to a contract which does not entail money, he has rights. turning now to the issue of dual quality: i know that many people in this house have been fighting against this for years. this helped to draw more attention to the issue and to bring it onto the political agenda. i am therefore proud that the commission, in the new deal for consumers, has, for the first time ever, proposed a legislative provision on this issue so that the dual treatment of consumers in the eu will stop, and so that the new rule is the same composition everywhere in the eu. this has been a very sensitive issue in the negotiations, and the text which is now on the table is a compromise achieved by the council and parliament negotiators after – and i agree with mr dalton – very tough but, i would say, constructive talks. we want the private sector to take their responsibilities and to end dual quality. it is now absolutely clear that they cannot cheat on the quality and sell under identical packaging foods with a significantly different composition, and this is a huge step forward. i am glad that already now, under the pressure we have imposed on them, many manufacturers have adjusted their recipes to have a single one across the eu. with further steps we made with the omnibus proposal and following exchanges of views on this issue, i know that many other companies are working on eliminating differences. what also helps is the permanent testing which we are now doing, and which shows that there is a significant number of cheated products on our markets which have to disappear. i expect that producers will stop differentiation. those who continue must have justified reasons for doing so. such traders should be in a position to demonstrate their legitimate reasons. this is why we consider that blacklisting of any differentiation as a misleading practice is not the appropriate and workable solution. the main mechanism of the unfair commercial directive is set out in article 6, not in the annex blacklisting misleading practices. i think that it is not less effective. article 6 of the unfair commercial practices directive (ucpd) is constantly used as a legal basis by national authorities across the eu. most recently, for example, the italian authorities used it to fine wizz air or ryanair for misleading consumers on the real price of their tickets. the consumer protection authorities in the member states base a lot of their cases on this article. recently, they published the result of their action against five big car rental companies for not being clear on the real content of their services and preventing informed choices, and they will do so in the future on the illegal use of dual quality. the commission is going to closely monitor the implementation of this provision, and we will continue our efforts to improve the enforcement capacities of the member states. this year again, we are proposing eur 1 million in grants from the consumer programme on this. furthermore, thanks to a pilot project from the european parliament, we are going to implement eur 1.66 million/eur 1.2 million of grants for consumer associations to develop their testing capacities. finally, there is a clear revision clause in the text, and we commit to re—assessing the situation two years after the entry into force of the directive to see whether we should move to more stringent solutions. allow me to express my sincere hope that this directive modernising and better enforcing european consumers’ rights will be adopted tomorrow.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i have to say frankly that in this package of measures which we are voting on tomorrow, we have a whole lot of very good proposals and enormous improvements for the citizens, for the consumers. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the good work he has done, but also the commissioner and the presidency of the council, who have worked very hard to get this through. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. we have achieved that the rights also apply to the so-called free services. we have ensured that better legal remedies are provided for consumers. and we have introduced what has not been done in this area before: sanctions for breaches of eu consumer protection rules. in particular, infringements of consumer protection rules may be punished by fines of at least 4% of annual turnover. we have also prevented what the commission had intended to do in terms of worsening consumer law, namely a restriction of the right of withdrawal in the consumer rights directive. and we have put a whole series of measures on the blacklist of unfair business practices. i can't tell you all of them. i don't have time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the question now is: should we throw everything we have achieved into the trash? my group recommends, however, that we approve and that we ensure that the revision clause we have introduced is actually used in the next parliamentary term to ensure that the rights of consumers are actually enforced, including against dual quality, because we cannot accept that there are consumers of first and second quality. that is why we, as social democrats, as the s&d group, will continue to work on this and fight for its abolition, because it is unacceptable. but we shall nevertheless agree to the compromise reached tomorrow.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is good that the eu is committed to consumer protection and defines uniform european standards. it is also good that parliament, as a directly elected institution, is more reliable than the commission, as we have seen in the defence of the right of withdrawal against the commission's original plans to water down this right of withdrawal. but there is clearly a problem with this new deal for consumers that we are all aware of, namely the double standard of quality. for example, if a german father takes his child on holiday to poland and buys him his favourite butter biscuit, it should contain exactly the same amount of butter as the german brand, rather than palm oil. but it's not like that. here, profit-maximising practices by companies are turning some europeans - especially in central and eastern europe - into second-class consumers. it is time to put an end to this business practice in the interests of a europe of community and solidarity.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, despite the many good provisions on transparency and consumer rights online, one crucial piece is missing from this legislation: a clear ban on the dual quality of products. i regret to see that this parliament is divided not on ideological lines, but on geographical lines, where members from the western states seem to think that this deal is good enough, even though parliament has given up on its position of banning dual quality and the central and eastern european members are asking for a better deal. the greens/efa group is not divided on this. we consider this a matter of treating people equally in the eu, and this is at the core of what european citizens expect: that they will not be discriminated against because of where they live by being sold an inferior product. this is why we would rather take the time to do it right and not adopt a trilogue agreement that has been rushed through and where parliament has given up on its promise to citizens to ban dual—quality products.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. yes, today is a good day for europe, because we have the opportunity to regain the trust that was lost in the approval process for glyphosate. i would like to thank the 1.3 million citizens who signed the citizens' initiative 'stop glyphosate' and who have made this process possible, which is now bringing transparency to the authorisation process for chemicals, especially in europe. we know that the glyphosate issue is not over. that was the trigger, because glyphosate is still under criticism today. we are seeing in the united states that the concerns are serious, and we will see what comes out of a new approval process. what we've achieved now is that we have access to all the studies, anyone can look in. all studies must be published, including those that may not be in the interest of a company, and efsa can review them itself. these are big steps forward, and it's a big step that citizens' interests, environmental interests, are put before corporate interests. that is why we welcome and agree to this agreement.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, the supplementary protection certificate (spc) waiver was an important element of the commission’s single market strategy. this regulation is likewise an important deliverable for this parliament. it was explicitly called for in the report by ms lara comi in 2016 on the single market strategy. a positive vote tomorrow will send a strong and clear message to europe’s citizens and to the business community, a positive message on eu competitiveness, a positive message on strong industrial property protection and a positive message on access to affordable medicines for citizens. delivering for our citizens and being seen to do so is important. it is also important in the context of europe’s rendezvous with its citizens next month. the commission is therefore very happy with the outcome of your successful negotiations. parliament and the romanian presidency did an excellent job. this has not been an easy fight, far from it. so i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr de grandes pascual, for his tireless work in difficult political circumstances and under severe time constraints. i would also like to mention the rapporteurs for the committee opinions, mr wölken and ms sánchez and the various rapporteurs. i say to members: through your inputs you have contributed to an economically useful waiver and to a clear and balanced legal text. the robust text that you have agreed with the council will allow eu companies to take part in, and become leaders of, the emerging global market in generic and biosimilar medicines on the basis of a level playing field with manufacturers based outside the eu, delivering upwards of 25 000 net new jobs in the pharmaceutical sector in the eu over the years ahead. and, ultimately, reaffirming europe’s position as a hub for pharmaceutical r&d and manufacturing. i will now say a few words about the main elements of the regulation on which the plenary is due to vote tomorrow. firstly, on stockpiling, a sensitive issue for parliament. i welcome the flexibility shown by the council, and also by the commission, in accepting this inclusion. stockpiling will be allowed during the final six months of the spc in order to better ensure day-one entry of eu-produced generics and biosimilars after the expiry of spc protection in the eu. in addition, every five years, an evaluation will take special account of whether the provisions on stockpiling are sufficient, specifically the review clause in article 21a of the regulation mandates the commission to examine, inter alia, whether the six-month stockpiling period is sufficient to satisfy the objectives of the waiver. secondly, on the date of application, all three institutions showed flexibility. the waiver will now become an effective reality by 1 july 2022 at the latest. this date respects the dual imperative of being both legally sound and economically useful. that being said, there will be no retroactive impact on acquired rights and, likewise, the core rights in the eu of spc holders are not affected since market inclusivity in the eu remains intact during the spc term. in addition, there will be a transitional regime so due account is taken of legitimate expectations of right-holders. thirdly, on safeguards. the final compromise is robust and transparent. exceptions will be accompanied by important but proportionate safeguards. these include appropriate notification rules which come on top of the new classified medicines rules that entered into force in february 2019. but, at same time, the regulation respect the needs of makers of generics and biosimilars to keep certain commercially sensitive information confidential and it complies with our obligation to promote healthy competition both in the eu and beyond. because in the long run that means lower prices for patients. let me conclude. i believe you have reached a good compromise. it reflects a good balance between the various political views and between the sometimes-competing interests of stakeholders. i hope that parliament will endorse it in the vote tomorrow.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the other shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation. it was a very time-consuming task. what have we achieved with this report? i believe that with this report we are ensuring that patients in the european union have better access to cheaper and safer medicines. we have thus finally fulfilled a mandate given to us by parliament in various reports. we are making generics and biosimilars available in europe, which we cannot produce in the european union at the moment because the legal conditions are not there. we're doing this to make it safer for patients. we remember that in recent years there have been contaminated medicines, there have been shortages of certain medicines. if we produce here in the european union, we can better monitor the quality, we can also ensure that the drugs are available here in case of shortage. so in that respect, we have taken a real step forward. the main problem with this regulation was, however, stockpiling, i.e. keeping the product in stock for the first day of the expiry of the supplementary protection certificate. and here large sections of the house, but unfortunately also the european commission, have tried to do everything to prevent this stockpiling from happening, despite the fact that the european commission's own impact assessment has said that the greatest benefits are derived from production and stockpiling. if you don't believe that, you can read the impact assessment on page 42. so we've been fighting for a long time about what actually has the best benefit for patients. we've ended up with six months of stockpiling. this is a good first step, and the strong review clause gives us the opportunity to see in good time whether this is really sufficient. i hope that we will then have really safe and good medicines for all patients in the long term. finally, i would like to thank all the staff who have really worked under time pressure.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, this is my last speech in this european parliament. i am proud that it is on a file where the european parliament has stood up to the so-called intellectual property industries, which are sometimes putting profits above access to medicines – which is, after all, a fundamental right. supplementary protection certificates (spcs) are not economically justified at all. they just prolong patents on medicines that are already too long. this proposal at least allows the manufacture of generic medicines for sale where they are already legal. this is a small step, but it’s a step in the right direction. it comes with an ambitious revision clause to investigate if this 6—month stockpiling waiver is enough to achieve public health or whether we need to question the spc regime altogether and have a more fundamental reform. so long, and thanks for all the fish.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in my view, the coordination of social security systems is one of the most important laws. europe has really come a long way in this. we are thus essentially regulating the free movement of workers, one of the basic ideas of our united europe. i believe that we members have been given too little time to deal with this important and very comprehensive piece of legislation. the commission also submitted the legislative proposal relatively late. it is of course difficult to achieve a fair result before the european elections. we had to vote in committee under great pressure of time, and there was clearly not enough time - too little time - for the trilogue to reach a result which the council could have approved. there are positive aspects, which we also achieved in the trilogue. for example, we now have coordination rules for long-term care, we have an important exception for secondments, namely the exceptions for business trips, so we continue to allow short-term secondments. but there are also dark sides. i am less pleased with the idea that, in future, the european parliament proposes that you should unsubscribe from every posting. the idea is actually well-intentioned, but probably only viable with modern technology, with digitization. for example, if you are a teacher and you are planning a school trip to a neighbouring country, is that already a posting or not? the committee's report also goes too far on the subject of unemployment benefits. the export services have already been mentioned, and the raisin picking issue, which we can get if we introduce the right to vote in the future on the issue of frontier workers. we have found out in the trilogue, but the trilogue is not up for vote here. i think we could do better. we need more time for this in the new parliament after the european elections. the epp group will be ready to help us achieve a better result after the european elections.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. it seems to me, after listening to you, that some of my colleagues in this parliament do not want to understand the basic principle of the coordination of social security systems. it is about recognising acquired rights when they move to another country - nothing else. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. we can stop talking about a social union altogether. please, just admit it! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that is undemocratic. we can change it if the majority wants it. but simply wanting to end the debate and not have a vote in this legislature has nothing to do with parliamentary democracy. this raisin picking is destroying the european union. the free movement of persons must apply to all people in the european union. she needs to be covered for everyone. that's what we're talking about here. the majority in the committee on employment and social affairs has reached a very progressive position. we'll put them to the vote. that can be voted on. we on the left vote in favour of this because we want to see a longer export of unemployment benefits - six months. we are voting in favour of this because it will close loopholes in social security fraud in the field of posting. and we also vote in favour of coordinated care as a stand-alone service. but we are particularly against the attempts by some - particularly conservatives and the far right - to impose child benefit indexation. eastern european women - in germany, for example - are to receive less child benefit if their children stay at home in poland or romania. these people are to be discriminated against - people who work hard, who have paid in, who pay their benefits, who pay taxes and social security contributions, and who also want to visit their children at home. we shall reject this indexation. finally, on the question of social equality, we must defend in parliament the social equality of all eu citizens. no one should be treated as a second-class eu citizen. that's got to be true for unemployment benefits. if someone deposits in one country, it must be recognised in another. and there is a fundamental gap in the eu's free movement framework: we as the eu must ensure that citizens in all countries have the right to access social security systems.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not saying that we should not have a blue card, but i would like to say something about the rules of procedure: you are ten minutes late, we started the debate ten minutes late, so we cannot have a blue card. if we had done that, i would have liked to ask mrs zimmer what she thinks is the trick here, when parties exercise their normal right to make requests. this is not a trick, mrs. zimmer, i must tell you that very clearly. and, mr president, if you had come on time, we could have used the blue card procedure.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the brexit drama we are witnessing in the uk did not start three years ago with the referendum. for decades before that, there was a real systematic attack on the european union, and in recent years, especially, on eu citizens living in the uk. this debate has very often been based on a discussion of indexation of child benefit - a debate of envy which does absolutely nothing to bring about social balance in britain, but only poisons the social climate and divides society. i want to make this very clear: indexing child benefit would not solve any problem of social injustice in britain or other european countries, but would only create inequality between men and women workers and create more red tape. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but at the same time we must realise that we have to do much more for social justice within the european union. because the regions in britain that are most affected by social inequality and poverty are also the ones that voted the most in the referendum to leave. the eu has not done enough for a long time to prevent workers and citizens from being turned against each other. we must realise that the conditions for brexit exist in all the member states of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we want this common european project to continue to grow together, we must make it more social, and then we must tackle these two challenges together. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social security system is properly coordinated.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have the opportunity today to continue the success story of the posting of workers directive: equal pay for equal work in the same place. equal social rights throughout europe would be what we europeans should be proud of. guillaume balas has made a good suggestion on this. the european internal market is not only the euro and freedom of movement, but also the social protection of these rights. the rights of the people envisioned by guillaume balas are important for the mobility of people, and we do well to support people. the horror stories about the export of unemployment benefits and child benefit have no basis in fact. the fact is, this is pure nationalist propaganda, because not a thousand will engage in this abuse. i shall be speaking tomorrow in favour of the revision of the social security systems. we should leave it to the nationalists to play east against west, north against south.
member of the commission. – madam president, let me thank the honourable members for this interesting and lively debate on this important matter. we proposed a modernisation of the rules on social security coordination two and half years ago, so well in time, and we launched the proposal because we need to preserve the social protection of the increasing group of mobile citizens. in the context of increased labour mobility and major demographic changes, the existing rules must be updated to adequately protect citizens’ rights. free movement of workers only exists if mobile workers preserve their social protection. the modernisation will provide the national administrations with better tools to fight fraud and abuses. citizens and employers will greatly benefit from the clear deadlines that we wish to introduce for cooperation between national administrations, national authorities, and i also mentioned the legal certainty that we owe to our citizens, to workers and businesses that exercise their free movement. these are all reasons why we cannot afford to postpone the modernisation of the coordination of social security rules and the commission therefore counts on this parliament to adopt a position in first reading that shows our citizens and workers and businesses alike that we care about social security rights and that we care about a good functioning of our internal market, because indeed coordination of social security systems is crucial for free movement, and free movement of workers, the self-employed and companies is crucial for the internal market. i trust that this parliament will show citizens, up to the last day of its mandate, that their rights also count. that this parliament will show europe’s businesses that it understands their needs, and also the needs of the smes, and that it will show to all that europe can deliver. and if you will allow me, madam president, to use one more minute of your time: this is my last intervention in a debate in this parliament and the cooperation between the commission and the members of the parliament, especially the members of the committee on employment and social affairs (empl), has always been excellent. i think we were able to realise a lot together and i want to thank you for all the achievements that we were able to make together. i wish you all the best. (applause)
prime minister of latvia. the great mr. that! the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, members of the house! ladies and gentlemen! you guys! it is a great pleasure to have you here today to speak on such an important subject as the future of europe. as you know, i have been a member of parliament for almost ten years, and i have probably learned a lot during that time. the one thing i've learned is that if i want to give a speech here, i have to be able to express myself in at least three languages, otherwise i can't. also das ist jetzt die zweite sprache. (this is now the second language.) le français is too difficult for me, unfortunately. i understand the language, but for a speech, it's a little too difficult. but i'll continue in english. this is language four. this is a time of change: the end of the term, the coming of the elections. it really is a time for reflection. but, before we look forward, i want to go a little bit back in history to give a little bit of context. the following countries are listed: what binds europeans? really, when you think about it, it's the shared history coming from ancient greece and rome, through christianity that spread throughout europe. as christianity and this culture had spread throughout europe, the last remaining outpost were the baltics that still had not become part, shall we say, of this common shared cultural and religious heritage. it was only at the turn of the 12th and 13th centuries that the pope in rome said ok to a crusade against the non-christians in the baltics. since that time, our country has gone through all of the cultural developments, changes and upheavals that the rest of europe went through, whether it's the renaissance, the reformation or the enlightenment. today, our country is predominantly, at least historically, a lutheran country with strong catholicism in the southeast. it is very clear that, through our history, we have been part of the northern european cultural area. we view ourselves as being rather pragmatic, very patient, and wed like to think rational and law-abiding as well. in culture there's a strong creativity and personal enterprise that always presses its way through. for hundreds of years after the introduction of christianity, our country faced various periods of political and military occupation, coming at times from germany at times from poland, at times from sweden, and at times from russia. throughout this time, of course, we maintained our identity and our language and culture. it wasn't until the end of the first world war in 1918 that we finally declared our own independence. and it took two more years for the war of independence to free the country of the remaining german and russian armies which was still there at the time. if you want a personal family history, my father's father my grandfather entered the tsarist army as a soldier for the tsar, then he became a bolshevik soldier, fighting the revolution against tsar, and then, when his unit heard that our country had declared independence, he came home and became a freedom fighter for independence. a typical history at the time. our country developed between the wars. then the second world war came. it did a lot of damage throughout europe. that's where i come into the picture. i am the son of refugees, wartime refugees. my parents were children in 1944 my mother was eight and my father was 14 and fled in small boats from latvia to sweden. about 5 000 latvians came to sweden and about 200 000 fled to germany as the advancing soviet army was coming a second time, devastating the country. my parents grew up in sweden, met and married, and then they emigrated further to the us, where i was born, together with my two sisters. i first came to latvia in 1984. at the time, i was a high school student in the last refugee school, the latvian refugee high school, in münster in germany. that's when i first came to latvia. it was a different world, a different country. everything was grey, people didn't smile on the streets, soviet soldiers on leave, but everywhere, everything was in russian. you could see a visible lack of investment in any kind of infrastructure, whether they were buildings or roads or bridges. you could see the decay. as solidarity came in the late 1980s in poland and the berlin wall fell at the end of 1989, change happened in our country as well. we finally regained independence in 1991. in a very short amount of time, we developed democratic institutions, we developed free enterprise, we developed a banking system, and we developed a market economy, basically from scratch. in 2004, only 13 years after regaining independence, we joined the eu and nato. in a couple of weeks time, we're going to celebrate 15 years since we joined the european union and i can say, on behalf of my country, we have not regretted a single day since we joined the eu. (applause) so what is the eu? well, first of all and it must be stressed it is a union of values, freedom, democracy and the rule of law. historically, in europe, how were disputes settled? with soldiers, with guns, with rifles, with tanks, and with destruction. how do we do it today? tiresome debate, discussion votes, but it's a heck of a lot better than the way it was done before. the eu is also about economic development, and at the core of that, is the single market. by opening up our borders to each other, we have created one of the largest markets in the world: over 500 million people, in sheer economic size roughly equivalent to the united states, which is considered the world's strongest economy. but all is really not well in the eu. all of us know, as politicians, that there's a lot of anti-eu sentiment going around. there are politicians who are offering very simplistic answers to very complex issues. generally, they are referred to as populist. my simple message is: don't fight the populists it is a worthless endeavour but try to understand why people are listening to the populists, and why people are unhappy. so why are people unhappy? what happened? go back 10 years to 20082009. a bank collapsed in the us. okay, they collapse every once in a while. that led into a chain reaction of a banking crisis around the world, especially in europe. that led to an economic crisis, the biggest we had had since the great depression. my own country's gdp fell by almost one quarter, one of the steepest drops in about a year and a half. other countries fell as well, maybe not so badly. as we were coming out of the economic crisis, what happened a few years ago? the migration crisis. the unrest in the middle east. it started as peaceful revolutions that turned into bloody revolutions and then refugees, migrants. the result of all that is what i would call a political crisis, people losing faith in the system. it's understandable that they have lost faith. we have to help them regain it. if you look at voters, what are their main concerns? i say there are four: jobs, the way of life translated into immigration the environment; and safety and security. to talk about the future of europe, you need to address all these four issues. so what about jobs? the eu has a mechanism to foster job growth and it is that which is simply referred to as the single market. i think of a story i remember as a child it may have been one of aesops fables where a father has three sons. he gives a stick to one of his sons and says, "break this stick" and the son breaks the stick. then he gives another stick to the son. the son breaks the stick and he says, "well, what's the difficulty?" then he gives the son a whole bundle of sticks together. he says, "now break the stick". he tries and tries again, gives it to a brother, can't. the third brother can't. the simple moral of the story is, when you're alone, you can be broken easily, like a stick, like a twig. when you're united, you're powerful, and that's the beauty of the single market. we have challenges to the single market coming from the outside. there is a rising china and theres a us whose administration seems to be faltering a little bit in its belief that it has a leading role to play in organizing world affairs and world trade. now, what about china? a country that openly subsidizes its huge industries. these industries are coming into europe and competing with an unfair advantage. at the same time, european companies do not have equal access to chinese markets. what's the answer? i say the answer to unfair competition is not protectionism. we cannot go the way of the chinese. we should not become more like the chinese, but demand that the chinese become more like us in terms of opening up their market. we have a lot of clout as a union and as a single market. this is what we need to use, not as individual sticks, but as that bundle that cannot be broken and can change things in the world. within the eu we still have hurdles to overcome and this has to do with the internal barriers still to the single market, especially in the digital sphere, as well as is in the services sphere. ask yourselves: why are the largest internet companies coming from the us? why aren't they european? i think the answer is pretty obvious. the us has a dollar zone, it has a federal government and a federal budget, and it has zero barriers between the states in terms of trade. they have a truly united single market, smaller than ours 330 million. we have a bigger one, but we have too many hurdles. so, if we talk of wanting to have national champions, i don't think that we should bend our competition laws to artificially create national champions. i think we have to tear down the barriers within the single market to let those champions grow themselves and they can take on the world, they can take on the us, and they can easily take on china. (applause) one of the cornerstones of the single market is the financial system, the banks. ten years ago, the biggest threat to the banks was liquidity, so we created a banking union to make sure that the ecb is overseeing the largest banks and to make it safer and ensure that the banks will be there tomorrow morning when we wake up. the world has changed since those ten years. liquidity is not the main problem. a new problem has emerged, which is terrorism in europe and the financing of terrorism. how does that often happen? through illicit funds moving through the european banking system. so where are we on anti-money laundering (aml)? in this house, i was the corapporteur, with ms sargentini, on the last two aml directives. i learned a thing or two about policy. antimoney laundering legislation is all about risk assessment and reducing the risk of dirty money entering the system. to the east of europe, we have a country, a big economy, russia, and, for the past 20 years, money from russia has been wanting to flee that country. why? because europe is safe. europe has the rule of law. in europe no one takes their money away without going through the courts. you can't do that. that money wants to come to europe. some of it is clean, maybe most of it is clean, but some of it is not clean and those who are working with dirty money, the criminals i'm not talking about people looking to optimize their tax returns and itemising something that may be an expense or not, i'm talking about hardened criminals that are moving millions of euros are flying like hawks above the ground and theyre looking at the weak links in the chain: in this country, you can do that, in this country, you can do that, in this country, you can do that. our country was also part of this chain and not alone. money laundering is a european problem. since becoming prime minister, i don't have the patience to wait for all of us to get our act together so i'm cleaning up my house. (applause) we're going to have the cleanest and the most resilient banking system in europe. in one and a half years time, we'll gladly consult anyone in this room in and in this house on how to clean up a banking system, but it is a little bit like fighting rats. i can make sure that i get the rats out of my house and my house will be clean, but what about my neighbors? the criminals may have left latvia for now, but they have unfortunately im convinced not left europe. so we have to clean the whole neighborhood. that means that anti-money laundering supervision has to be centralised, just as prudential supervision, a very strong and important step forward. (applause) another concern of voters is immigration, the way of life. there are no simple answers here. i don't have them. i don't think anyone does. the truth is that europe is a fantastic destination to come to live and to work. we have stable economies, we have stable democracies, we have the rule of law, we have individual freedom, and a lot of our neighbors don't. as autocracy grows, the pressure on wanting to come into the eu will only increase. it will not go away. so we have to learn to deal with it. my country has dealt with a little bit of immigration as well. during the 50 years of soviet occupation, more than 700,000 people migrants arrived in our country. that's one third of the population. we're only two million and 700,000 came in. our government had no say over this because we had no government. it was moscow making the decisions: fully making the decisions, no codecision, no say. after regaining independence, how have we dealt with it? with the one big i word: integration. you have to work with the people, you have to work on your educational system, bring the people into our culture, bring the immigrants into your cultures. this is the way forward. we can't fight that. you can't stop people wanting to come into europe. we are a preferred destination, but we have to work on integrating these people. but we can do something to mitigate the flows and the obvious answer to that is the outer border, frontex. this is a wonderful programme that needs to be strengthened. (applause) because if we can show our voters that we control the outer border, then we can have free inner borders and we won't have the situation of a few years ago where, within the schengen zone, we remember going between strasbourg and germany those of us who stayed in hotels there that the bridge was sometimes closed or they were checking every car. this is not the way forward. we need open internal borders for a single market to work, which means we need firm borders on the outside. we will have to fund refugee camps, it is inevitable. we will have to fund development of economies and the rule of law in third countries. this is inevitable. and we have to work on integration. europe is still a union of 28 sovereign countries with their own national identities. it's extremely important that we maintain our national identities, cultures and languages, and we do this through the process of integrating people who have come in. the arrivals have to adapt to our countries because thats the way of the world, and this is what we need to work on. if we can show that we control the outer borders and we can integrate the arrivals, the voters will become much more relaxed about the entire issue. the third concern: environment. climate change i wont go into it deeply is real. mankind's coal, oil and gas burning is contributing. we need to stop this. so the legislation, the direction, is absolutely correct: reduce co2 emissions, increase renewables, increase energy efficiency. all of this has to be done. but we have a difficulty, which is that not all member states have the same kind of energy mix. my own country is just behind sweden. we are almost at 40% of renewables. we're way ahead of the curve, but not everyone is ahead of the curve that way. some countries are very coal-dependent and we can't just wish fossil fuels away. someone has to pay for the transition. so we need a little bit of time. regardless of how fast we want to move, there's one structural change that we need to make to make that change faster, and that is again i'm a single market kind of person opening up the market in energy to competition. you have to have competition for renewables to advance. i'll just take one example: the electricity market. many countries have regulated electricity prices. consumers pay the same monday morning, monday evening, monday night, sunday morning, sunday evening, sunday night, so no one is motivated to think about when to turn on the dishwasher or the washing machine. it doesn't matter: you pay the same all the time, so you're not motivated to save. but in those markets where competition has been opened up, you have service providers that help you automatically regulate when you're buying electricity based upon the price signals. in this way, we can reduce the overall needed capacity to supply the demand peak hours because, during the peak hours, you will be motivated, say, not to have your refrigerator go warmer by one or two degrees. if you can do that for millions of households, the savings are enormous. but you have to have deregulated markets. if you want renewables, you have to have deregulated markets. competition everywhere. (applause) i would like to thank you. the fourth concern: safety and security. it means different things to different europeans. i think, in the south of europe, when people think of safety and security, they're thinking about the threat of uncontrolled immigration, migration, terrorism -- that's another threat that people feel -- and, in the west of europe, maybe the biggest threat right now is of an uncontrolled brexit, not only for trade but also for peace in northern ireland, a very, very real concern. i come from latvia and it's no secret to anyone that, when latvians think of safety, we think of russia. russia is our eastern neighbour as it is for all of europe. russia has a government that has one basic policy: it feels and it is convinced and it is in their policy papers that they are surrounded by enemies and always under attack. that is their dogma. that is their belief. so the way that they fight back is to make their enemies weaker. right now in europe, the biggest threat from russia is not military. it's a threat, but it is not the biggest threat. we have nato and we have our own preparedness. the biggest threat is the threat of false, misleading, and downright lying information. we live in the world of these wonderful devices that all of us have in our pockets or on our desks. i thought, as many of us did a few years ago, that this information is the age of having unlimited access to knowledge, to facts. preparing a speech, you can go on the internet and find all kinds of crazy, good things. but it also turns out that social media is a fantastic way to disseminate propaganda and downright lies instantaneously. as more and more people move away from getting their news from the mass media, from educated journalists who have certain ethics in checking their sources, and as more and more people are getting the news from social media, we have to do one important thing, namely to think seriously about legislating the responsibility of platforms, providers on the internet, of the content that is being disseminated. it's a slippery slope, i admit, because it's a fine line between looking for responsibility and introducing censorship. as a latvian, i will never support censorship. there's too much history there. but we have to find that fine line, because this is an attack on our way of life. what are they looking to do? to divide society, to make us fight each other and to make us dislike each other. think of the debate about vaccination. where in the world does this argument come from that vaccination leads to autism? you can trace it back to the russian outlets. they are disseminating this. they are still making people not be vaccinated and it is resulting in very serious health repercussions throughout europe. immigration, the immigration debate behind that: also russia. brexit: very involved. we even have this bubble throughout all of eastern europe of george soros as some terrible person who is somehow undermining our way of life, we're being told. it all comes from one single source and, if we don't accept that fact, we can't begin to address it. but i say, for safety and security, militarily, my country invests two percent of its gdp into the military. we are part of nato. we think everyone should be doing this. but military is one part of the equation. the second part equally important is combating the dissemination of false and misleading information, and there we have to consider legislation. (applause) finally, i wouldn't be a latvian politician if i didn't mention at least a couple of things about the multiannual financial framework (mff), the seven year budget that all of us are in the midst of trying to come to terms with. i completely agree, as this parliament does, that we in europe need to invest more in research and development, and in the smart young minds that are going to really create the jobs and the growth in value and in wealth in the future. this is extremely important. (applause) but it is equally important that, as we're investing in r&d, we don't just do it in one, two or five select capitals, but that investment moves throughout europe. why? clever minds are everywhere in europe. everywhere in europe needs growth. if we think of excellence only concentrated in a few countries, we actually do ourselves a disservice. so yes to r&d, but it really has to go around europe. that is very important. clever cohesion: cohesion is still important, but it has to be clever. we have to make sure that the poorer regions are converging upwards, a very important aspect of that. last but not least, the farmers in europe. we know that historically the european budget has been all about the common agricultural policy (cap). it was years ago and it is still important, but, as a reminder. we have a historic chance to write a historic injustice. all farmers in europe compete in the same market so, if you sell grain, whatever, you sell it on the market. the price is what the market gives you. we subsidise, through direct payments, our farmers in europe, but there's a catch. we don't subsidize our farmers equally or even close to equally. the three countries that are near the bottom of the pile, well below the average, are the three baltic countries, latvia, lithuania and estonia, for obtuse mathematical reasons dating back to the 1990s. our farmers are competing with everyone else's farmers. the only way that they can compete is at the cost of their own well-being. they are forced to be poor to compete in the same market. so, if we subsidize - and i'm open to not subsidizing anyone, but i don't think we'll get there in the next seven years - we should do it equally across the board for everyone. my speech comes to an end. you can breathe easier. friends, the eu is not, and never will be, perfect. it's not. but it's the best damn thing that i can think of. in europe for hundreds really thousands of years, differences were settled through the force of muscle. who was stronger prevailed, who was weaker: tough luck. i see. the way that we work is by far better than anything that anyone has come up with to date. member states have joined of their own free will and with the consent of their citizens. member states can leave the eu, but we see in brexit that actually none of us realised how difficult that would be. but it is a testament to how europe works and also as a member of the council i can say that the goodwill and the unanimous position, the sticking together, of the remaining eu 27 is a testament that we can get through difficult times, through discussion, through debate sometimes very long debate without resorting to any kind of violence. this is the key to how the eu works: that we talk with one another and do not fight one another. so what about the future? to sum up, i say we need to strengthen the basics. strengthen the single market, tear down the barriers, control our outer borders, and bring down the threat of uncontrolled immigration. have a smart transition to clean energy, bringing in more market forces to play, and focus on our common security, not only through the military, but also through the security of the information world that we live in. don't fight the populists. address the causes of people's malcontent. left alone, we're like aesop's sticks. we're just individual sticks and we can be broken one by one. even the large european countries are small in the world, but united, as that bundle of sticks, the european union is a major force in the world and we can bring our core values freedom, democracy and the rule of law to take bearing on other countries. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. other mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to have the prime minister of latvia here, who knows this house well from having served in it for nine years. i am all the more pleased to see him because i will always remember the first latvian presidency of the council of ministers. i remember it because it was the first real presidency of this commission, after two months of cohabitation with the italian presidency. i remember in particular the last day of the latvian presidency: on the night of 29-30 june, the roaming charges directive was adopted, guaranteeing free and non-discriminatory access to the internet. it also proves that in europe we must have patience and keep it until the very last day. we often discuss, as if we had nothing else to do, brexit. before the elections, it might be advisable to draw the attention of citizens to what we have been able to achieve in recent years, in particular the useful decision on roaming. brexit is important, but the daily lives of citizens are more important. (applause) i would like to thank we wanted to be the dialogue commission and we have been. we have organized meetings with citizens: 1 600 citizens' dialogues, which further proves that the commissioners do not lock themselves in the berlaymont bunker, but move around europe. this also proves that the commission is not a bunch of putschists, illegitimate, but that we are in daily contact with the citizens. europe cannot be built against the will of the peoples or without the nations: the nations are important. those who think that nations are a temporary invention of history are seriously mistaken, nations have become permanent and therefore, it seems to me, we should no longer speak of the united states of europe, because it gives the impression that the european union is becoming a state. europe will never be a state that copies the model of the united states of america, never! we want to be latvians, germans, bavarians, britons, french, luxembourgers, but also europeans. there is no contradiction between responsible patriotism and belonging to a larger whole than the european union. our commission wanted to stop interfering in all the little things in the daily lives of citizens and to focus on the big issues of the future. this was the contract the commission made with you, the elected representatives of europe, when i presented to you in july 2014 the main political priorities of my commission. it was not a matter of words. in may 2018, we had already presented all the proposals and initiatives announced in 2014. so far, 350 of our proposals have been adopted and 164 are still on the table of the co-legislators. they cover important reforms, including the asylum system i would have liked to have been able to adopt all the directives which revolve around the necessary reform of the asylum system. i have one satisfaction: never in the history of european parliamentary history has so much progress been made in social matters. the social field has been the poor child of european construction for too long. i would like to thank the members for their willing and determined support for the social progress that the commission has initiated. language number two, mr. president. latvia is a country that knows better than most what it takes and what it is worth to be part of our union the prime minister made this clear in his excellent speech a few moments ago. your country, prime minister, has always taken its destiny into its own hands. you have lived up to the words of one of your famous poets, who said: we will be as great as our will. and you are, because your will is great. (applause) i would like to thank you. you have fought for your freedoms in difficult circumstances by far, more difficult than western europeans can ever imagine. you have made history, instead of being the victims of history imposed by one of your biggest neighbors. you have said no to the guns and to the tanks, and you have fought for your liberty, for your freedom, and it is one of the best events in recent history that latvia and others have gained freedom and have fought for their place in the sun. the place of latvia was not in the dark and in the shadow; latvia's place is in the sun, and we are happy that you have joined the european union. not a single day did we regret that latvia became a member of the european union. (applause) i would like to thank you. you have joined the schengen area, and i fully agree with what you have said about internal borders and the protection of external borders. the commission has proposed coastguards and border guards of 10 000 people, men and women. the council was postponing this to 2027, whereas the commission had proposed 2020, but everyone is saying we have to protect our external borders. let's do it then. the proposals are on the table. (applause) i would like to thank you. you are helping to make europe stronger and safer. you are one of the 25 member states that launched permanent structured cooperation on defence matters in december 2017, and i am delighted that you are playing a full role in a number of european projects, from making cross-border military mobility easier thats important for latvia, military mobility you are making cross-border military mobility easier, and you are countering the threat of sea mines. in doing so, you have become the embodiment and living proof of how europe enhances national sovereignty and influence. take energy you mentioned this very important dimension of european policy. your history and your geography meant that latvia and the baltics were an isolated energy island cut off from the rest of europe. when we took office, we made it clear that the european union will never leave its citizens out in the cold and will never leave a member state in the dark. for me, this was a baltic issue, yes, but not only a baltic issue: it was a european one. this is why, when we took office, we created an energy union and made it a top priority to provide latvia and its baltic neighbors with stable, secure and cheaper energy they need. today, we are well on the way to synchronising the baltic electricity grid with the rest of europe by 2025. we are investing in infrastructure, and we now have the world's most ambitious and advanced climate and energy framework. i am delighted that we have turned the energy union vision into reality and i thank you, i am grateful to the prime minister for his leadership and work as a member of this parliament, and as a prime minister today. herr präsident, language number three: latvia brings its full force to europe. therefore it is normal that europe also invests in latvia, denn in latvia zu investieren, heißt in die europäische zukunft zu investieren. the following is a list of the most important decisions taken by the european parliament in the field of the environment: 50 000 latvian jobseekers and almost 9 000 employees have been able to start their career on the labour market since 2014 thanks to the european means for new qualifications. 300 km of newly built or upgraded roads, financed by eu-mitteln, will be added to the network of the riga economic centre with the rural regions and neighbouring lithuania and estonia. 960 million in investments were mobilised through the so-called juncker-funds in latvia. the latvian future concerns all our futures. therefore, the next eu budget will invest €100 billion in innovation and research. we want to invest in the great challenges that we can only face together as a team. for example, funding for stronger borders and security will be tripled. we will ensure that every fourth euro of the budget supports our climate and sustainable development goals, and the funds for the erasmus+ programme will be doubled to 30 billion euros. i thank the prime minister and his government for their continued support and for their active support of us on this path. i would also like to know about your remarks on medium-term financial planning. it is right that we invest in innovation, forschung, jugend und verteidigung. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. agricultural and cohesion policy i'm not happy about it. but if we leave everything as it is, plus the new priorities, on which the council and parliament have agreed, and which we must finance, then we will bring the european budget to a level of 1.4%. that will nobody wouldn't bother me at all. europe is worth more than 1.4% of its gnp, but even the parliament has set the upper limit for the fixing of the european budgets at 1.3%. if we had proposed 1.4% instead of 1.1% to the commission, even they would not have agreed to it and many in the house would not have done so yesterday. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: because agriculture and cohesion are important and for some countries more important than for others. latvia has had difficult years behind it, not only because of its geographical location and the historical burden it has been subjected to, but also because the economic crisis in latvia has been fully affected. but five years after the beginning of our term of office the latvian economy is clearly improving. the merits of one of their predecessors, valdis dombrovskis, have been brought to latvia. and that is why i have tried very hard to succeed, as you see, in making the vice-president of the european commission responsible for the euro and social dialogue. valdis, thank you for your work! (beifall) also put the old ones in them, was du gesagt hast. but you've been talking so long, that i must now close. latvia may be a smaller country, but it is a country with big ambitions and a place where east and west meet. west and east must not be divided, but are the two lungs of the european union. and if europe wants a good future, then it must have both lungs. this is the last speech i shall be allowed to make to this parliament. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i liked the work yesterday very much. i learned a lot, i struggled a lot, but we also did a lot. it remains so, as i said on the first day of my term of office: europe must be loved. if a man is not loved, he is not capable of love. the european union is a great example of this. (lebhafter beifall)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, what a great final speech in our row of future of europe discussions. i first want to thank our president for organising this format of the future of europe discussions and it’s great to have krišjānis kariņš now as the final speaker here in this plenary, with a great contribution, with a forward-looking vision for europe and, we all can feel it, with your knowledge, krišjānis, about how europe works, how the european parliament works. i probably can say that it would for the future be a great thing to have more prime ministers in office with the background of being a former member of the european parliament. that is what we really enjoyed today, thank you so much. (applause) what i really like is that you started first of all with optimism. when we speak about europe, about the future of europe, it’s your country, about latvia, the success story economically in the last years, all of this with the support, the contribution of valdis dombrovskis under his leadership. it’s a great economic success. it is a great success for the country when it is about the investments, which jean—claude juncker mentioned, and about the security feeling, that latvians feel protected because they are part of this strong union of the european union, and it is about russia and the external threats towards us. success stories when we speak about our mandate at the european level, which jean—claude underlined. in the last five years what we managed, what we have brought to the people of europe, the success stories on management of the external border, the millions of new jobs created with the juncker plan, the sustainable growth and the front-runner to be at the front on the question of the fight against climate change on a global level. so we can be proud about what we did in the last five years under the leadership of jean—claude junker. generally speaking, i’m 46 years old. i’m the first generation of this continent who can say that i live all over europe in peace and freedom. my father’s generation enjoyed peace, but half of the continent was locked up behind the iron curtain and my grandfather’s generation was in war, and that’s why the first generation, and this broader historic perspective, to have this in mind when we go out of this plenary and do our campaign. it must start with optimism. it’s a great europe we are living in today and we will protect this against all the egoists and nationalists. (applause) the second point you mentioned is about the concrete issues on the table. the answers on the demand, the questions, the concerns of the people. you mentioned migration – we fully support your idea about protecting our borders. the state decides who is on european soil and it is not the smugglers who decide. we need a resettlement programme, an ambitious one, and we need a plan for africa, with probably in the future also a commissioner for africa who combines all the efforts we need, all the activities we do in regard to our neighbouring continent. the jobs question – research is key. the regional funds are key, especially for the poorest regions in europe. trade is key, and the single market. i like your appeal to strengthen the single market because that’s the home base. looking for new jobs, we first of all look to our strengths and not to the strengths of the others. and then climate change. all these things are on the agenda, but when we are speaking about the future of europe you also have to be frank, because one thing is the content, the political approach, but the other is the method: how we come to results, and you know the problems. on a lot of fields where we need a stronger europe, we have the problem of the unanimous vote. i call it the problem of the unanimous vote. when it is about the russian policy, we always need all 27 countries on board to come to conclusions and that’s why we have to stop. if we want to make the european union into a strong political actor at global level, then we need the majority-making decision process in external affairs. that’s why the methods must be changed. when i speak about methods, i think keeping the bridge—building approach alive is needed. i tell you on migration: my own country germany was, in the migration debate, against all the commission’s ideas in regard to a binding quota on the question of distribution of migrants – until the year 2015, because then the migration problem arrived in germany and immediately, in one, two, three months’ time, germany changed its mind and immediately started asking for a binding quota mechanism on europe. and what does this tell us? this tells us: don’t look from an egoistic point to europe. we have to learn that we also have to take into account the problem of the others when we want to have a strong european union. (applause) finally, on the method: a europe which is democratic. we all know what we speak about. it’s a question of right of initiative here in this house, strengthening the investigation capacity of this house. the implementation of the rules must be checked also by this institution, and krišjānis, i’m really grateful that you support the idea of the spitzenkandidat, the idea that you have to show up before the elections to tell people, ‘i’m a candidate from all the parties in this house, and we have programmes and we ask for this support’. so a democratic europe. and finally, the future of europe means that we have to protect the essence of europe. we spoke about the european way of life, about democracy, independence of our judiciary, equal treatment of men and women, and, as a title, freedom: freedom of expression, of religion, of the press. we have to guarantee these rights for the future with an upgraded rule of law mechanism, give the world a positive example of how to manage positively society in a human way; that europe is an offer, the european way of life is an offer to the world – that’s the future of europe. (applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. jean-claude juncker said that we must love europe. that's right. i also love europe, but if you love europe, you must also see the weaknesses of europe, of the european union. i have heard it said in this house: we do not want to sacrifice our peoples on the altar of europe. how often, mr dombrovskis, have i heard it said here that we must do something for the young? the perspective of youth must not be to emigrate. we have to do something within the countries. mr. prime minister, you talked about the need for unregulated markets. we have two central markets that are fully regulated: exchange rates and interest rates. and when exchange rates and interest rates are fixed, then other parameters of action must come into play, and then adjustment through labour markets is the hardest adjustment mechanism there is. i hope that in future this house will not say: we must not sacrifice our peoples on the altar of europe. we must be able to provide labour in our own country. and the creation of funds does not solve the problem: the countries themselves must become competitive. that's their job in the future.
mr president, citing rules 1 and 115 of our rules of procedure, i want to call the attention of the house to an issue that is of grave concern to our european democracy. facebook has been enforcing, since the beginning of this week, a new advertising policy that is hampering the possibilities and the capabilities of the european parliament, as well as european political parties, to do eu-wide advertising. the president of this house and sections of the parliament and the commission and the council have written letters to mr nick clegg protesting against this new practice, but so far facebook is not reacting. i believe that it is completely unacceptable that a private company acting from a boardroom somewhere in the united states would decide how european elections are being run. it’s arrogant and completely unacceptable, i repeat, that facebook tries to dictate the democratic organisations and institutions like the ep and the european political parties that have legitimate grounds for eu-wide campaigning, and eu-wide advertising rules that make this impossible. i would call upon colleagues to join forces, and i propose that the european political parties get together and write an open letter to mr zuckerberg protesting and demanding an immediate change to the rules.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since the inta dossier has been removed from the agenda, i wanted to take this minute to thank you for 30 years of presence and cooperation in this parliament. we have achieved a great deal in the last few months, in the last few years, particularly in trade matters. i started out with 12 states. we are now 28. i started when there wasn't even a plenary room for us; we're sitting here now. i would like to thank my home state of lower saxony and germany in particular for allowing me to serve for 30 years as a non-native german who came to germany at the age of 25. this is european. i wish all my successors the best for the years ahead. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. thank you very much for everything. i really hope there is life after parliament. (applause from the centre)
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the new mandate for the european border and coast guard agency is undoubtedly an important step towards a european response to the challenges of migration. new capacities, a staff pool of up to 10 000 people, its own ships and aircraft for the first time - now this agency can really become operational and - by the way - save lives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the situation in the baltic sea region, which is a very important subject for the future of the union. this can only be one part of a coherent european migration policy, but it is an important one. the fight against the causes of flight and a solution based on solidarity for the reception of refugees are, in my view, essential elements of this.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, first of all, i would like to really thank our rapporteur for the excellent cooperation and very inclusive approach also to this work. i think we really had a very constructive position in parliament, especially when it comes to search and rescue. we here in the house all voted to make sure that frontex has a stronger mandate in search and rescue because of the humanitarian crisis that we see unfolding in the mediterranean every day. so i’m really happy that there was a majority in this house for that. but the member states saw it very differently. they have blocked the rapporteur’s attempts to put search and rescue more strongly into the text of this legislation, and that is really a problem. so frontex can now still only rescue people within the limits of border surveillance operations and that currently means just 30 sea miles off the coast of sicily. that’s a very small area. that is not the place where we have the problem. people are drowning in the mediterranean sea right now, while everyone is watching. we know where they are. their coordinates are clear. they are known to frontex. but no one is coming to rescue the people in need. operation sophia is not running any more. ngos are being criminalised and their ships are being taken away. also frontex monitors the mediterranean only by plane and refers search and rescue cases to the libyan coastguards, but in libya there is a civil war going on. no one there is picking up the phone. nobody rescues from there. with that, europe is violating its obligation to save lives by shifting it to a non-existent libyan rescue centre. in the long term, we do need to have a civil sea rescue in the mediterranean organised at european level because member states are not willing to act. but we cannot wait until then. we have to use the means available. otherwise, we are letting the values of europe drown together with the people in the mediterranean. (the speaker declined to take a blue-card question from mr etheridge )
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. secure external borders are important for a functioning schengen area and we therefore welcome the strengthening of the european border and coast guard. but some member states confuse secure borders with complete closure. and it is this that drives people fleeing violence and persecution into the hands of traffickers and militias. the consequences of this policy of excluding refugees are particularly evident in libya. it is not enough for member states to shirk their european, international and christian responsibilities, but if it were up to the conservatives and the right, european officials would now also be enforcement agents in third countries in cases of return to other third countries. a difficult situation for the civil servants and another shift of responsibility. we have successfully refused. when will the council, which has not even appeared today, show the same zeal for the asylum package as it does for the negotiations on the border and coast guard or the closure of the sea? when will there be uniform rules on legal immigration? because only in this way can we address the challenges at our borders in a sustainable way and in keeping with our common values. (the speaker rejects a question on the 'blue card' procedure by michaela šojdrová.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is right that frontex needs to be strengthened. we need more personnel there, too. this is a proper measure. at the same time, the call for 10,000 additional jobs reveals a fundamental problem: we will not solve the eu's problems by always 'just' calling for more money. what we need, particularly in the area of migration, is clearly a comprehensive legal framework that gives the eu back the right to govern. we must not only be able to control the borders, we must also be able to decide who can and cannot enter the eu. but instead we have a majority who want simple solutions, who want to cover up the problems with money. in reality, the problems are getting worse. the eu will again be unprepared if there is another crisis. and that is not in the spirit and according to the will of the citizens. if we want an eu that is close to the citizens, we must also take the will of the citizens seriously. i therefore ask that we have a debate on the matter of principle.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i have often criticised this parliament, the commission and the council for making decisions too often in the interests of corporations and the animal-hating agribusiness, to the detriment of people, nature and animals. but i am very satisfied with the result achieved by the envi committee, bas eickhout and us shadow rapporteurs. tomorrow we will vote on the first regulation to reduce co2 emissions from trucks. despite the strong opposition of the business community and some governments, especially the german one, this report goes far beyond the original commission proposal. this report is therefore an important step forward in environmental protection, but it is far from sufficient. and there is a lot of work ahead of you in many areas. today is my last speech in this house. i will not be a member of parliament in the next term. i would therefore ask you to take into account in your future decisions, as provided for in article 13 of the treaty of lisbon, the welfare of the billions of animals that are bred, exploited and killed for our interests. in the future, do more politics with your heart, which doesn't mean you have to turn off your mind. it is high time for a political paradigm shift. the primary objectives of the eu should not be economic growth and full employment but the well-being and happiness of all living beings and the protection of this planet. that is what the citizens of europe expect of you. thank you. thank you. i hope that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much, mr eck. i, of course, personally wish you all the best for the future. i have one question, however: how did you get the information that what is now on the table goes far beyond the original commission proposal? i think we are quite close to that, and that is what the german government has been advocating. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. what i meant by that was that in some respects we have achieved objectives in our negotiations which go well beyond the commission's proposal, and that was thanks above all to the excellent colleague, mr bas eickhout, who fought tooth and nail to ensure that a decent and truly ambitious report was put on the table. i would like to thank him personally once again for this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is good that we are also deciding on these limits for heavy goods vehicles for the first time tomorrow. every sector must contribute to climate protection. what is on the table is ambitious, but possible. it is good that we do not find any exaggerated demands from the greens and the social democrats in this text at the end. i would also like to thank bas eickhout for his pragmatism. he originally wanted much more, but then agreed that essentially what the epp group and the commission wanted was what was coming. that was smart. thank you to christofer fjellner for his commitment not only to this issue but to many other issues as well. but i would like to take this opportunity to thank commissioner miguel arias cañete in particular. he's had to endure a lot of shame and criticism in the context of his hearing. but i think even those who criticized him back then have to admit today: we have achieved a great deal with him for climate protection in europe. this is the last piece of legislation we will pass in this parliament. i would like to thank commissioner miguel arias cañete once again. we must continue, and i think one of the issues that will be raised in the next election is that we must strengthen rail transport. clean trucks are good, but we should also put more goods on the railway, put more people on the railway. we'll have to look at the load again. the railways are much more heavily burdened by emissions trading than other less environmentally friendly modes of transport. and we have to work on that, that's something for the next term. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i have deliberately not responded to your nonsense, but if you ask me, i will gladly respond: europe will achieve its 2030 climate goals. we have passed legislation - tomorrow is the last part of it - where we have already legislated the framework conditions that we will exceed our climate target of 40%. other continents can cut a slice off. it is also necessary that europe should be a model. at the same time, we have rules to ensure that energy-intensive industries are not driven out of europe. i think we have the right balance. and if it's being heavily criticized by both sides, it's a sign that it's a good middle ground.
member of the commission. – mr president, the commission welcomes the opportunity to discuss mr grzyb’s report today and would like to thank him and the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent work done, not only on this file but also in the entire process. as you said the cooperation was not always easy, but it was open, very dedicated and we delivered. thanks to the commitment and the determination of all three legislators really, we got a successful conclusion on this file. the clean mobility package. the public sector through that got an important role to play in the overall decarbonisation of european transport, especially in the bus segment where public procurement represents 70% of the market. by mobilising public procurement to accelerate the deployment of clean vehicles, the directive will help us to take an important step towards zero—emission mobility. in our view, the text that was agreed at the trilogue on 11 february 2019 represents a good compromise between the different positions and requirements. it ensures a good level of ambition, while leaving sufficient flexibility in the implementation so that the directive’s objective can be achieved without creating substantial administrative burdens for public authorities. with the adoption of this revised directive we will introduce a clean vehicle definition and set minimum national targets for their public procurement, including specific targets for zero-emission buses. i’m confident that the agreement reached in the trilogue sets a stringent enough definition and realistic, yet ambitious, national targets. the text also leaves full flexibility in the way the effort is shared within a member state, thus allowing for a cost-effective implementation that will not create excessive burdens on individual public authorities. many of our cities – i can mention amsterdam, berlin, paris, warsaw, barcelona, hamburg, milan, ljubljana and munich, among others, but there are many more – have already made voluntary commitments, going even beyond what will be required by the directive and we will now help other cities follow their example. the revision will also expand the scope of the directive to cover public procurement through practices such as lease-hire purchase and rentals. this will ensure that the directive better reflects current practices in public procurement and it will help to achieve the expected impact on the market. together, these measures will help provide clear, long-term market signals and will allow public authorities, manufacturers and investors to better plan for the transition towards zero-emission mobility by mid-century. the adoption of this directive would therefore represent an important step towards the decarbonisation of our mobility and towards our clearly defined vision zero by 2050.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. environmental protection is being made european. the best way to reduce pollutants is at european level, with binding guidelines for national governments on the expansion of renewable energy, on co2 reduction and on energy saving. and we also work across borders with concrete legislation on emissions trading, eco-design, energy labelling and many others. if energy costs are kept under control, if security of supply is guaranteed, then we are in favour of european standards. we must not go into too much detail, let alone go into the cities, counties and municipalities. we have put a rotten easter egg in our regions with this directive. european eco-standards for municipal procurement this is going too far! how far is this european union from the reality of life in the member states? the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of initiatives in this area. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented.
i have to say, madam president, public transport in europe needs to become cleaner. environmentally friendly buses and trains travel particularly long distances, and they are therefore the solution to traffic jams and bad air. i think it is right that we use this directive to ensure that the public sector leads by example. this is particularly important in the case of buses, where public procurement accounts for 75% of the market. we're already a lot further along than cars. in 2018, 9% of the buses purchased in a year were electric. in germany we have many good examples: berlin wants to be emission-free by 2030, and in my home town of osnabrück, germany's longest electric bus line is already running. this shows that the quotas are feasible and that we are on the right track. it is important that we also recognise biogas-powered buses for bus companies covering large areas. this makes the directive suitable for urban and rural areas. i think we are taking an important, good step.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. with tomorrow's vote we are putting an end to an untenable situation - a situation in which companies could move their registered office from one country to another without following the rules. without rules, it was possible to give in to the short-term profit motive and choose the country with the lowest wages, workers' rights, taxes and environmental standards. that is why we need rules to protect the interests of employees in restructuring. the protection of their right to information and consultation is of paramount importance and confident. i am very grateful to my colleague evelyn regner for these important achievements, which she has achieved despite difficult circumstances. the greatest success is that you actually go from an unregulated state to a regulated state. for the first time, management is obliged to give employees a detailed report on the effects of restructuring on their employment. that's good! an anti-abuse clause is intended to enable the authorities to initiate a review of the reasons for restructuring. that's good! this is the way to prevent the worst excesses of letterbox companies. the nation states were not prepared to take a major step forward. you missed your chance. it was not europe, it was not this parliament, it was the governments of the nation states that prevented further protection for workers. our house, the parliament, has found good compromise across party lines, has put forward proposals on how we can arrive at minimum legal standards for information, consultation and participation. we are seeing a gross imbalance between the economic freedom of businesses and the social rights of citizens. the text we are voting on tomorrow is a first step - a good first step - into a system of rules. i will agree to the text. we will not forget, however, that there is an urgent need for a framework directive on participation in europe. moreover, since this is my last speech in this house, i would like to thank all the europeans and all the members for the privilege of working with me in this parliament until today.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the rapporteur for their efforts in the fight against tax evasion and for the rights of workers. i am sorry to say, however, that once again a good text from parliament has been severely watered down in the trilogue negotiations. this time we have to thank the council - which is not here today - for making it more difficult for workers to access the information, consultation and participation rights they have been entitled to in the context of the reform of the freedom of establishment for companies in the eu. it would also have been urgent to have more clear and precise rules to put a stop to letterbox companies and the tax avoidance they involve. this policy allows for more and more mobility for businesses in the eu, but workers' rights are being weakened. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this. that is why we on the left, like the honourable member who has just spoken, will be calling for a framework directive on participation in decision-making to safeguard the rights of workers in the eu.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on foreign affairs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european defence fund is a major step towards achieving greater common research and military equipment procurement and thus more effective organisation of our defence. as rapporteur for the committee on foreign affairs and security, i am particularly concerned about one point: the european defence fund is laying the industrial policy foundation for more cooperation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it is the only way to reduce the number of different weapons systems, to promote the development of common military capabilities and, ultimately, to use taxpayers' money more effectively. the european defence fund is helping us to improve our defence capabilities and thus the protection of our citizens. i therefore call on all members to vote for this regulation at noon tomorrow.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the fact that we must do more together in europe for common security is the starting point of my argument. that is why a defence fund can play a positive role. but we have not achieved in these negotiations what would have been possible. the duplication and inefficiency in arms procurement will continue. the opportunity lost is not primarily due to the rapporteur, whom i commend because he was a controversial spirit and i sometimes even enjoyed standing with him for the reality of nato. but i have seen mr riquet and mrs grossetête represent the interests of the french arms lobby and the militaristic ideology. what we have now is a defense fund whose ethics codes are just a facade. a defence fund which, as mr martin has rightly said, is to spend 13 billion over seven years, with no parliamentary control whatsoever. a defense fund that will result in more arms exports. it is a shame that the european parliament is so self-castrating. but there was one important success: that there should be no money for killer robots. but that's not enough, so we won't agree. i would also like to warn against the ideology of strategic autonomy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. this is pure dream dancing.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr ferreira, i found it very interesting how you have now spoken out against the so-called militarism of the eu. how can you explain that in all the months of negotiations, not a single member of your group, the gue, has ever come to discuss the matter? how dare you come here and preach against militarism and not do your homework?
i have to say, madam president, i am glad that we are finally making a significant contribution from the eu level to better protect our citizens from external threats. i think that is the reason for the fund: the assessment of the security situation and the consequent need to do more together. the more regrettable it is that parts of this house, left and right, want to deny our citizens that better protection. this is grossly negligent - negligent towards our citizens who deserve the best defence, but also negligent towards our soldiers who are currently defending our security under the eu flag, for example in mali, off the coast of somalia or in the mediterranean. they have the right to the best defense equipment so that they can fulfill their duties as citizens in uniform and return home to their families in good health. finally, i would also like to say to the council, the individual member states and the commission: it is up to you to prove in future that the 13 billion euro provided for the defence fund actually leads to joint research projects, armaments projects, procurement and joint capabilities. they must now demonstrate that the added national defence budgets, 210 billion euros, will be spent better and more coordinated in the future. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european air traffic control system, the establishment of a european air traffic control system, the establishment of a european air traffic control system, the establishment of a european air traffic control system, the establishment of a european air traffic control system, the establishment of a european air traffic control system, the establishment of a european air traffic control system, the establishment of a european air traffic control system, the establishment of a european air traffic control system, the establishment of a european air traffic control system, the establishment of a european air traffic control system, the establishment of a european air traffic control system, the establishment of a european air traffic control system, the establishment of a european air traffic control system, the establishment of a european air traffic control system, the establishment of a european air traffic control system, the establishment of a european air traffic control system, the establishment of a european air traffic control system, the establishment of a european air traffic control system, the establishment of a european air traffic control system, the establishment of a european air traffic control system, the establishment of a european air traffic control system, the establishment of a european air traffic control system, etc. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they must shape a coherent eu capability and arms policy from the buzzword 'strategic autonomy' so that our citizens and our industry understand where the journey is going in the future. the defence fund, which will be voted on tomorrow, is only the first step. i would also like to see my hessian compatriot udo bullmann vote on this matter. the second largest group, the leader, can certainly be expected to take a personal stand on such an important issue.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is important for any capital market that there are safe securities. we know that safe-haven securities are unfortunately rare. we know that securitisations do not provide an adequate level of security. everybody has been aware of this since the financial crisis. we know that government bonds do not provide an adequate level of security. even eurozone government bonds do not provide sufficient collateral, as each of us has become aware of at the latest in the euro and sovereign debt crisis. but we know we have the deed. we know that the mortgage note is a safe security, that the mortgage note is an a, that the mortgage note has been an a for over 250 years, and it has never gone bankrupt. this is a security as we need it in the euro zone and as we need it in the capital markets union. in view of this, it is surprising that the development of pfandbriefe or covered bonds is relatively poor in the european union, that there are only a handful of countries with a strong pfandbriefe tradition and have been using this instrument very successfully for decades and sometimes for centuries, while other countries in the european union have little experience with it and some do not even have a developed pfandbriefe legislation. we are now remedying this by adopting a directive and a regulation in this parliament. it is the directive in particular that i would like to commend here, because the directive is also a guide for the developing markets in the european union, which can create a valuable financial instrument with the pfandbrief and which can use this guide, so to speak, to transpose into their own laws exactly what has been proven for a long time to be the best practice in the field of pfandbriefe or covered bonds. we have made a great effort to implement these best practices in this legislation by talking and negotiating extensively about the quality of the valuables being secured. and i think we've come to a good conclusion on that. we have now designed the pfandbrief directive to distinguish between two different classes of pfandbrief, namely the trusted pfandbrief, the securitised debt as defined in the capital adequacy regulation, the product which is used by 97% of the market and which has gained a high level of investor confidence. and then a new market segment - a market segment for innovation, a market segment for growth, which is to grow and explore, test and bring to market new financing opportunities, but also new collateral assets. this is a good framework for the pegs to become established as a financial instrument in the european union, and also a good framework for this type of securities to be accepted from outside the european union, that we set international standards for this financial instrument. we'll be able to win the trust of investors by making sure that the standards we set here are good and high and resilient. but we hope to attract issuers too, at least when the commission hopefully adopts an equivalence decision soon, so that our market is opened up and not closed to those who are also interested in using this instrument. i think we have taken a big step in the right direction here. i look forward to the debate with my colleagues. i hope for a broad agreement in the plenary tomorrow, and in particular, of course, i hope for a broad acceptance of the instrument in the capital markets union of the european union.
mr president, madam commissioner, mr rapporteur, mr bernd, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs on their balanced and pragmatic approach. the agreement on the rules on covered bonds is part of a logic aimed at strengthening the capital markets union. it is essential that we do not lose sight of the ultimate objectives of the laws we adopt in this context. in this case, the main objective is to support the real economy. we are certainly looking to provide the banks with a long-term source of finance to achieve this. we will, however, have to be very careful not to relax the regulatory framework for banks if this does not result in improved access to finance for businesses and individuals, firstly, or if it entails risks of compromising long-term success, secondly. the outcome of the negotiations is remarkable, as it will allow countries where such markets do not yet exist to promote the growth of an instrument which has proved to be reliable and stable, even in times of crisis, as mr lucke explained. other instruments, such as the creation of a european guarantee note, will be examined in more detail. this was my last speech, and i thank you all for your good cooperation. i wish you all a happy easter.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs, and especially the commission staff, for their cooperation during this legislative procedure. i think the main points have already been made in this debate, so i would like to confine myself to two remarks. the first is a small comment i would like to make on the contribution of my group colleague, mr notis maria. of course, you always have to make sure that bonds are actually paid back, and the example of greek government bonds is an example of some bonds not being paid back. but here we are talking about bonds issued by banks, which, precisely because the creditworthiness of banks can be called into question, are backed by assets in a pool of collateral which is protected from the access of other creditors. in this respect, it might be my recommendation that the greek government - given the doubts about the creditworthiness of its own bonds - should also use this procedure in the future and back government bonds with real assets or other marketable claims. this would certainly be a landmark step towards improving the creditworthiness of the greek government. secondly, a brief comment on my colleague, alfred sant: he stressed the importance of not disrupting well-functioning markets. that's what we've all been trying to do. but at the same time we have tried to incorporate best practice into this directive. and of course, you can't do both. because if you don't disrupt the market in any way, then you have to allow all practices, and that would also allow the worst practices to continue and be allowed to continue. that was not the aim of the harmonization we were seeking here. i think we have done a good job of avoiding this error by actually highlighting the quality of the legislation in certain member states and creating some pressure on other member states to adapt to these requirements. this raises the overall level of cabot bond legislation within the european union and i believe it shows the product a good path forward.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. i will say this in advance: i am in favour of the european parliament going to the european court of justice. we'll have to appeal our right, obviously. i believe that we are legally obliged to do so, because we are the parliament of the citizens of the european union. and it is their right to have a strong parliament that can exercise its powers fully. the delaying tactics in the council show that influential people in the major political parties are afraid of the european parliament. what would it be like if the european parliament could summon and hear individual members of the governments of member states or certain witnesses? how much more powerful would the committee of inquiry be if it could impose sanctions on those who do not comply with the european parliament's summons? the commission is not only careful to enforce the treaties, but is also working with the council. you too are against the committee being able to carry out investigations in a member state as part of an inquiry. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. what do you have to hide? what are people going to think if the commission is concerned that its officials are bound by the truth when they testify before the inquiry committee? what would that reveal?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs, my colleagues and the commission for the good cooperation they have shown on this dossier. the main objective of this regulation was to reduce administrative burdens. we have certainly achieved that objective. the regulation means less red tape for shipowners, for ship crews, for pilots, for port authorities. the uniform reporting formalities for ships will greatly simplify the exchange of information between shipowners and port authorities and between port authorities themselves. we have also ensured that the port staff involved in this new system are well trained and we know that the a and o for a well-functioning port are also well trained staff. but we have not only made improvements in the environment of european seaports with this regulation. in the last five years, we've had a few things go down. i am thinking of course of the port package which has been required to be applied in the member states for some weeks now. with this regulation we have prevented forced liberalization, created financial transparency and strengthened workers' rights. i believe that we have recently made a significant contribution to environmental protection in ports with the directive on the discharge of waste. at the end of this term, i would like to thank you all for your good cooperation. and we can also praise ourselves a little: we have helped to strengthen the competitiveness of european ports, and this is good not only for my home town of hamburg.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is true that today is the end of a cycle for me, not only because this is my last speech as a member of parliament - i will not be standing again - but also because when i joined the committee on transport and tourism in 2009 - i remember it well - our belgian colleague dirk sterckx was working on the predecessor legislation, the voluntary digital port bill. and it was really the case that they said: there should be a national maritime single window, and it does not have to be applied everywhere. we have now realised that this has not worked well, neither in germany nor elsewhere. today we have taken a significant step forward and now we really have the digital clearance of port documents on paper at least. and then it will be implemented, and i think that's very crucial, an improvement in the speed of port clearance and a good thing for all involved. and knut, now you've taken away part of my speech; i would like to point out that we have achieved a great deal in this parliament for ports. starting with your report, with the port package, where i was also allowed to work - it was a nice cooperation - then just recently my ship waste disposal came, which we decided, and now, deirdre, your report from today. i think we have really achieved a great deal for ports in this election period. i also want to thank you all again, because this is my last speech. i'll take some time. i am very happy that of the few who are here today, it would be great if we were more clear: important topic, we already see it so much, but of those who are here, almost all of them are close friends of mine from the last five years that i have been here, many even from the entire ten years that i have been here. i had a lot of fun. i think the european parliament is the most democratic institution in existence. i've enjoyed my time here, but i'm also happy to stop now. i am very pleased that violeta bulc is here today as our commissioner, and pavel, i am also very pleased that you are chairing the meeting as my colleague from alde transport. so thank you all, and i'm sure we'll see you again. i'll stick to the maritimes!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by thanking my socialist colleague, mr paul tang, for his really good work as rapporteur and for his tireless efforts to promote sustainable finance. today we are taking an important step, which is that all financial market players will have to disclose sustainability information transparently at product and company level. it has just been mentioned that greta thunberg was here in the european parliament, in the environment committee, the day before yesterday, and she made it clear that we must finally act if we want to avoid an environmental, a climate disaster. it is not enough for mr weber, who is not here, to take some nice pictures for social media and at the same time prevent the young woman from appearing in the chamber. even without greta, we don't have a problem of knowledge, we have a problem of implementation! the conservatives say, "sustainability yes, but please don't oppose the industry and the financial industry". when it comes down to it, it's clear that it's often about greenwashing and that's supported, and sustainability is not pursued as a real political goal - not environmental sustainability, not social sustainability. we have seen it recently in parliament: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so what can be done? firstly, to the new parliament, to the colleagues who will be taking charge here shortly, and to the next commission: we must move on. today is an important step, but it's not enough. it has to go on for a sustainable economy. this includes the requirement for banks to take risk measures, namely in the form of increased equity capital, and disclosure when investments have negative effects. this is important. and secondly, to choose in the european elections those who are for social, environmental and economic sustainability.
a writer. mr president, madam high representative! in a strategic partnership, it is important to have the political will and courage, as well as the wisdom, to address issues where both partners have different approaches and approaches. it is a matter of concern to me to hear of changes in the meaning of human rights in a country with which i have been friendly for decades. encouraged by the shared commitment to the un charter of human rights in the final declaration of the recent eu-china summit on 9 april, i would like to promote the establishment of an independent international delegation of human rights experts, a fact finding mission, to the xinjiang uyghur autonomous region. the un high commissioner for human rights, michelle bachelet jeria, should be involved in this. china cannot afford to deny itself its own diversity. trust in the democratic participation of people in social development requires transparency. the events and conditions in the camps in xinjiang must be investigated. it is precisely out of respect for the wording of important articles of the chinese constitution that conditions in the camps must be prevented. in a state governed by the rule of law, no administrative or police authority may arbitrarily or on the basis of fabricated or very low suspicions detain people for long periods of time. i'm hearing estimates of a million people in prison. i see this as a problematic contradiction to the modern china which is opening up its economies to the exchange of goods. i also see the need to develop common standards for data protection and privacy, especially in the context of the digital and technological challenges of open societies.
a writer. mr. president, apologies for being a few seconds late. i would like to begin by thanking the colleagues from the various political groups for the fact that we have a great deal of consensus in this house on human rights, particularly with regard to religious and ethnic minorities. we may not always use the same words, but we all know that in the relations between our european union and the people's republic of china, human rights as a foundation on which our self-concept is based must never be secondary and must never be forgotten. i would like to mention two people: i would like to mention president tusk, who made it clear at the last china summit that he too sees this. i would like all european leaders to speak as clearly as he does. and i would like to mention mr diess, the chairman of the board of vw, who embarrassingly told the bbc that he knew nothing about the camps in xinjiang that mr scholz was talking about. this is an embarrassing, submissive way of ignoring human rights just to increase one's own profit.
a writer. the commission is not mrs mogherini, you will remember that at the first meeting of this parliamentary term i asked you to draw up a new china strategy for the european union, not only for our economic relations but also for political relations. and i have to thank you, because you did. we have a renewed european union strategy for china that looks a little bit more closely at what is happening in this great country and how we are dealing with it. china has an economic boom that is unique in the world, lifting 700 million people out of poverty. that's a good thing. but what we regret today is the enormous setback in the freedoms and opportunities that people have there. we know that since the last party congress the party has been determining everything, wanting to determine all living conditions, and in this respect the options for the people and for groups within the chinese population have become very narrow. and above all, religious freedom is under tremendous pressure, even though it is in the chinese constitution. we have had the summit recently and it says that human rights are universal and indivisible and i believe that the eu must demand this from china. there are very few institutions in the world that are doing that because of the new power that china has. the eu must be a champion of human rights, and you should do so again and again in your policies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a month ago, i met the dalai lama in dharamsala, india, on the 60th anniversary of the tibetan uprising against the chinese occupation. i was presenting to some 3 000 people the european parliament's support for years for the tibetans to preserve their identity, religion and culture. our resolutions, debates, conferences, our exhibitions, demonstrations and the monthly meetings of the tibet interest group speak a clear language. under the pretext of creating security and stability, the chinese authorities have further exacerbated the situation in tibet. we protest against the arbitrary arrests, the mistreatment, the re-education camps. this is my last speech after almost 25 years as a member of the european parliament. i hope that the work of tibet support will continue with the same passion as my colleagues natalie griesbeck, tunne kelam, csaba sógor, cristian dan preda, and belder: they have shown such commitment. the european parliament is and remains the voice of human rights. i'm not going to let you go.
a writer. the commission is not brunei introduced sharia criminal law in 2014 and it will come into force on 3 april, the final phase of implementation. for example, the punishment for homosexual or extramarital sex and abortion is stoning. theft is punishable by amputation of a hand, and defamation of the prophet muhammad is punishable by death. children from the age of seven are already fully convicted. brunei, a country where the sultan is both head of state and prime minister and has all executive power, must abolish this sharia penal code. this is in stark contrast to international legal norms. equal treatment before the law must also be guaranteed, regardless of gender, sexual identity, origin or religion. brunei has had a de facto moratorium on the death penalty since 1957. this moratorium should be continued as a step towards the abolition of the death penalty. and only if brunei revises its sharia criminal law in line with international law should the european union consider any possible resumption of negotiations on a partnership and cooperation agreement at all. the eu should also ensure that the human rights situation in brunei, in particular the rights of lgbtiq persons, is put on the agenda of the next asean-eu dialogue.
we are deeply saddened by the terrible bus accident on the island of madeira yesterday, in which at least 29 people lost their lives and many more were injured. our condolences go out to all the families and friends of the victims of this tragedy. on behalf of our house, i'd also like to thank the tireless efforts of the emergency services on the ground. i'd like to ask you to rise for a moment of remembrance. (parliament adopted the resolution)
following the resignation of ms linda mcavan, parliament shall, in accordance with the rules of procedure, declare her seat vacant with effect from 19 april 2019 and inform the competent national authorities. ladies and gentlemen, i give the floor to the vice-president of the commission and high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, mrs mogherini.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i know this is a ritual to take the floor before the voting session, but as this is the last session of your mandate, i want to express on behalf of the entire commission, of myself personally, and i am sure also on behalf of the council, my profound thank you to each and every one of you, in all political groups, for an excellent five years of common work. i think we have shown that institutions of the european union can work together effectively, in respect of the autonomy of the institutions and in respect of different political views. i want to thank personally, in particular, those of you that have worked along this five years with me, in particular on foreign, security and defence policy issues, on human rights, and wish each of you all the best, either for the next mandate or in life. wherever you will be, whatever you will be doing, i am sure you will bring the european flag in your heart and, as far as i am concerned, we still have a few months of mandate, we will try to build on the good results and the lessons learned from these five years of work together with you, and looking forward to working with the new members of parliament as soon as the new parliament will start its work as of july. (applause)
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i think i can speak for the whole house and thank you for your work and i would like to respond to your wishes. you mentioned it: we are at the last part-session today and there are some members who would like to speak, which is not necessarily in accordance with the rules of procedure. i want to try and sort through it with you. first of all, i should like to say that two colleagues have contacted me and told me what they want. i shall give the floor to these two, but not to the other members. first of all, mrs costa.
thank you, thank you. i would like to ask you first of all whether there are any statements which you really want to make on the rules of procedure. that's not the case. i would now like to give the floor to a few colleagues. mr. cavada called in, so i know what's going on.
that concludes this item.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, let me first of all thank the rapporteurs, roberto gualtieri and josé manuel fernandes, for their excellent work on this file. but i’d also like to extend my thanks to their respective committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) and the committee on budgets (budg), the associated committees and all the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive work in a very limited amount of time. this house has continuously backed the commission’s initiatives in support of investments throughout this mandate. the commission welcomes the agreement reached between the co—legislators and would like to read out in full the following statement (it’s short, as agreed during trilogue negotiations): ‘without prejudice to the prerogatives of the council in the implementation of the stability and growth pact, one of contributions by member states, either by a member state or by national promotional banks, classified in the general government sector, or acting on behalf of a member state, into thematic or multi-country investment platforms should in principle qualify as one-off measures, within the meaning of articles 5(1) and 9(1) of council regulation no 1466/97 and article 3(4) of council regulation no 1467-97. in addition, without prejudice to the prerogatives of the council in the implementation of the stability and growth pact, the commission will consider, in future, updates of the implementation guidelines of the sgp, to what extent the same treatment as for efsi in the context of the commission communication on flexibility can be applied to invest-eu as the successor instrument to efsi with regard to one of contributions provided by member states, in cash, to finance an additional amount of the eu guarantee for the purposes of the member state’s compartment.’
before the final vote, i would like to thank you all for the constant cooperation of the plenary and also for the tolerance you have shown when i have made mistakes. if i have been too close to any of my colleagues, i apologize. i wish you all a happy easter. i hope that, as you run for re-election, you will have a campaign that moves within the usual framework and, as i have already said here after the attacks in strasbourg, we should always bear in mind that it is a matter of opinions and political views, a matter of political direction, but it should leave no doubt that it is not a matter of people as opponents, but of politics and democracy. i wish you all the best. (applause from the centre) the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i have to say, madam president, have a good night. this is mostly about big politics. i'm more concerned about the composition of this house. in principle, it is the members' task to set the political agenda themselves. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that rule is unfortunately being broken at the moment. i have been given a paper today. i think mr klaus welle is in charge here, and that is the administration for the libe committee. this paper is entitled 'possible first parliamentary initiatives' and deals with all the things that we were elected to parliament by the voters to prevent, namely humanitarian visas, resumption of rescue operations, resettlement and so on. so the administration obviously believes that it is not the mps who should set the political agenda, but that they themselves do. this is a gross disrespect and i urge you to take action and clarify how much money has been spent on this and how to prevent such things in the future.
for the greens/efa group mr president, our common home is on fire. it is burning with a deteriorating climate, collapsing biodiversity and depleting natural resources. it is burning deeper inequalities, fuelled by neoliberal globalisation and technological revolutions. it burns with a brutal, or sometimes more subtle, recoil, of fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. in the face of this triple urgency, goodwill and general intentions are not enough. we need a fierce determination to change course, even if it means going head-on against the interests of those who defend the status quo. this is our determination and it is on such a mandate for change that the greens/european free alliance group was elected in may. so you are here today, mrs von der leyen. three weeks ago you had no idea that you would be running for the highest office in the european union. it's not to say that learning must have been quick. your speeches last week did not convince us of your sense of urgency or your determination to redirect the union's policies. in comparison, the talk you just gave and the publications that accompanied it are marked improvements. i welcome your advocacy, backed by concrete measures, for equality between women and men. i also note that you personally say that you are in favour of halving our co2 emissions by 2030, that you are taking up the idea of a border carbon tax or a european unemployment insurance scheme, all of which are taboo ideas in the political family from which you come; i commend your courage in this regard. but if your speech is more concrete today, it falls far short of our expectations. let me explain why with a few examples. why, for example, raise our climate targets in two steps in the face of urgency, rather than immediately? in fact, when you read the detail of what you write to two political groups, you can feel this idea of conditionality being stressed. in other words, we will move forward when others are ready to move forward as well. you rightly stress that the ecological transition must not leave anyone on the sidelines. but you cannot ignore that if the price of carbon rises, everyone - and especially the most vulnerable - will be affected. the answer to this is not, as you suggest, a european adjustment fund, but a thorough revision of our taxation so that it finally becomes fair again. the environment is not just the climate either. not a word from you about biodiversity or the depletion of resources like arable land or fresh water. in these areas, the common agricultural policy, the first budget of the union, has a disastrous impact. so a copernican revolution is necessary, but it remains taboo for you. would the great ambitions be crushed by the well-understood interests of some? let us now turn to the free trade agreements. in their present form, they are the key instruments of a globalisation that both depletes the planet and exacerbates inequalities. you are in favour of including in these treaties, as they already do, clauses on sustainable development, but you cautiously refrain from committing yourself to making these clauses binding and punishable. nor is there any mention of the preferential treatment which continues to be given to so-called investors. on the question of asylum and migration, i have not heard you seriously question the 'fortress europe' scandal. it is shameful and unworthy that the union should rely on authoritarian regimes or bankrupt states to ensure the security of its borders at all costs. and this at the cost of massive human rights violations, sometimes committed by armed gangs such as the notorious libyan coastguard, financed with european money. you are proposing a new pact on asylum and migration. mrs von der leyen, that pact does exist. it was adopted by a majority of five political groups in this parliament. don't reinvent the wheel! take it back and go fight the council! finally, on the rule of law, your language is all the stronger the more vague your proposals remain. is it a matter of changing the game and ensuring that european values are respected everywhere and at all times, or, on the contrary, of sparing those heads of state and government who, within the union itself, as in hungary and poland, regularly flout fundamental freedoms and the separation of powers? in short, where a change of course is necessary in view of the triple urgency of social, environmental and democratic matters, you propose a change of course here, incremental changes there and, above all, a great deal of vagueness. you will understand that, in these circumstances, the environmentalists are not ready to entrust you with the steering of the union today. i would like to point out, madam von der leyen, that since the elections the greens/european free alliance group has made every effort to form a pro-european and pro-change majority here. such an endeavor takes time to bear fruit. your insistence on getting a vote today deprives us of that time. if we greet you with courtesy in our regard, we do not feel that you are really preferred to such an alliance. on the contrary, we feel that you are ready to welcome any support from wherever it may come, including from the national populist ranks. we cannot find that. but as i was telling you a week ago, sales start when the customer says no. if you were to be elected tonight, rest assured that we will be ready to be convinced and to give our support whenever your proposals are commensurate with the social, environmental and democratic emergency, in other words, commensurate with the existential challenges we are facing.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have a very important and exposed personnel decision to make in this house today. the office of president of the european commission is of great importance to the union and its member states. that is why i want this decision to be made with great care. only a person of the highest calibre can be considered for this position. mrs von der leyen, with all due respect to your person, we of the identity and democracy group, after careful consideration, are of the opinion that you do not meet the requirements of this office. let me explain briefly why i did that. firstly, we germans have our own experience of your way of governing and formulating policy. we have seen you in germany over the years as minister for family affairs, as minister for labour and social affairs and finally as minister for defence. in none of these offices have you fulfilled your duty to serve the good of the german people. i'll spare you and the audience here an explicit listing of your failure. you've ruined our troops. it is now more poorly equipped than ever and virtually unable to defend itself. there will be a big sigh of relief in the bundeswehr when you step down as minister of defence tomorrow, regardless of the outcome of today's debate. a complete re-launch in virtually all areas will be required here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but that is no longer the case here and now. there is nothing in our view to suggest that you would be better placed to fill the position of president of the commission than your previous offices. the fact that you have been touring the house and its political groups, your long list of clouded promises of this and that and often also of its opposite, depending on where they were presented, was not only of critical interest to us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the ecr group you are in favour of soft rules of law and tolerance in the distribution of migrants. these contradictions are glaring. and today you're serving up an incredible bouquet of well-sounding catchphrases. there should be something for everyone to enjoy. you are here in your campaign, displaying the classic behaviour of a mainstream politician, making empty promises, playing a sort of jekyll and hyde with the factions in the desperate hope that you will somehow be able to generate enough votes for your election. the problem with all this is that it lacks any convincing vision of a modern union of the fatherlands, one which really serves the people of the union, one which is wise and sensible in confining itself to its core tasks. on the contrary, they promise more centralization, more taxation, more patronage, more competence and completely contradictory content. they're still stuck in the old ways, but they don't feel it. of the questions i put to you last week at the conference of presidents on behalf of my group, you did not answer two at all and the third was highly unsatisfactory. we in the id group are not going to be convinced by such a socialist performance as the one we have here today. we shall therefore vote against you. (applause from the centre)
on behalf of the ecr group. i have listened to you very carefully, mrs von der leyen, and i have listened to you in our group meeting, and i must say that in your speech today the positions have changed quite a bit from what we heard last week. i shall start with a fact, which you have stated on several occasions in recent days, concerning the role of parliament: he rightly called it "the heart of democracy". i would like to start by saying that we have systems in this house that can make things work, but things only work if everyone respects the system. you spoke about gender equality, you spoke about the great importance and relevance of the role of a woman for the first time as head of the commission. it does so a few hours after what happened last night in this parliament, where another woman, one of the most voted in europe, formerly the prime minister of her country in poland, was not elected president of the empl committee because of a biased, undemocratic, illogical and incomprehensible choice. i start from this, because i think it is important that when we refer to the rules we always remember them, otherwise we risk appearing hypocritical in relation to the rules, because it is in no way conceivable to ask for consent or to give parliament a role without respecting the d'hondt method or having prejudices of this gravity. and why will our position lead to even more careful reflection? because you've been writing letters for the past few hours, and as you know, words fly, but what's written stays. we have therefore read very carefully the letters you have written to the socialist group and the renew group and we are asking you this morning for clarifications on this, just as the other groups have done. but if possible, i will respect, for example, what mrs garcía pérez has said, which is contrary to what you have asked. i mean, you asked for clarification on the rule of law mechanism. we ask you to clarify this in your reply, but from diametrically opposite positions, because if the method is the one that timmermans has been using for the last five years, then we are certainly in a totally alternative and contradictory position and therefore we are not clear on the mechanism of the rule of law, just as it is important to talk about climate change. because it is clear that there are positive aspects to the issue of climate change, which you have indicated, such as the just transition fund to help communities mitigate the effects of climate policy, a sustainable investment bank to mobilise private capital, but again there is a debate about targets. we are raising the bar of our ambitions without saying how we can achieve them. will we ever set a goal and actually stick to it? it's all a bit confusing. you suggest that we change it this morning, if i understand correctly, 50%, and last week 55%, which does not seem to me to be the slightest difference from the objective to be achieved, and all this seems more like a declaration of intent, since there are countries which, as you know very well, have more than a third of coal production. but again the subject of social policy is referred to. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations on the future of the european union. and again on immigration, you gave us a very good, positive example of school this morning. you told us that a refugee came to germany, that you took him in, and that became a very nice and interesting story. well, that is not so, because in addition to refugees there are immigrants, there are illegal immigrants and there are situations in which it is good to ask you for a word of clarification, because in this parliament something has happened in the last few days which from our point of view is very serious. because a person who is under investigation in our country for having boarded a ship of the guardia finanziaria, not respecting the orders of the national authorities and risking the death of italian law enforcement officers, in this parliament, was the subject of a debate in the libe committee last week in order to invite him to a hearing. these are simple approaches, and i ask you to give me an equally clear answer, because it will help us to think about this at the end of this debate in our group.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. we have heard a lot about the citizens of europe, and i have received hundreds, if not thousands, of emails in the last few days, as have probably many other colleagues who are concerned about your nomination. i would like to take this opportunity to give the european democrat group a chance to speak by quoting from one of these e-mails. it says: 'as a voter, i expect the parliament to elect one of the leading candidates to be president of the european commission.' and the lady whose email i'm quoting from then goes on to say: 'the appointment of a defence minister as commission president would be, in my view, a fatal decision, signalling that the eu is taking a course towards militarisation and isolation.' i think that at this point there is nothing to add to the criticism of the procedure for your nomination or the content. i would like to refer to the meeting we had last week. you were in the left group and you presented your idea, your vision of the future of europe, and it became clear that our vision is different. i would like to explain why i said that. we are the only group in this house which unanimously rejects the continuation of the austerity policy. and when someone like you, who speaks of the future of europe, must finally break with this false neoliberal ideology. the austerity policy has not led to, for example, the restructuring of the national budgets, but on the contrary, it has led exclusively to the fact that, for example, public investment could no longer be made, that no more investment was made in education, that no more investment was made in health care, and also that no funds were available to fight decisively against climate change. the victims of this policy are the citizens of the european union as a whole. mrs von der leyen, if you want to combat the climate emergency, you must act now, if you want to tackle economic structural change, you must invest now, and if you want to guarantee social security in the european union, you must break with this false austerity policy now. 113 million people - these are the commission's official figures - live in poverty or are affected by it in the european union, and i expect more than just words from a candidate for the commission presidency. so i expect you to stand here and say, yes, i understand, we need a social offensive for the european union. my aim is that in five years' time, no european citizen, no matter what age, no matter what region, will be more affected by the lack of a livelihood, but will be able to live a life of dignity. the commission has already made a number of proposals. but you have unfortunately remained very vague today, for example, on tax policy. i'm telling you, velvet gloves are the wrong tool to use to ensure tax fairness. i expect a candidate for the presidency of the commission to have the decisive will and courage to take on the corporations too and to say very clearly here: yes, i want to put an end to tax dumping, i want to close tax havens in the european union too, and i want to finally give corporations and assets a fair share of tax revenue and ensure tax justice. (applause from the centre) the european union is now to be given billions more to arm. you made that clear again. so this is money that will be lacking for social security, for health, for education, etc., and it will not be going into public services, but into modern weapons systems, for example. some people even dream of a space army these days. i think, to be honest, this is more of a nightmare. but whether you are talking about a european army or an army of europeans, that is a waste of words for me. the aim is quite clear: the result is a rearmament of the european union and a militarization of foreign policy. we, the left group in the european parliament, are firmly opposed to this. we call for an eu strategy to strengthen diplomatic conflict resolution. we believe that the first step would be to convene an international conference on disarmament. i would like to mention one last point. the european external borders are currently the deadliest borders in the world. i consider it a political bankruptcy of european politics that people are dying every day in the mediterranean while those who defend universal human rights are being criminalised in some member states. mrs von der leyen, i listened very carefully to what you said earlier. we will be very careful as the left group to see what policy you are trying to implement. but i think that our plan - and this has become clear - for the future of the european union, a social european union, a climate-friendly european union and a peaceful european union, is not very compatible with your vision. that is why we regret that we will not be able to vote for you today.
mr president, i may be speaking from the back of the chamber today but, as i predicted last time i was here, in the european elections the brexit party were very much to the front of the elections and massive, massive winners. i come back to a place that has been humbled and humiliated. the european council stitch—up has rendered this place impotent, until today when you’ve got some real power if you choose to use it. what you’ve seen from ursula von der leyen today is an attempt for the european union to take control of every single aspect of our lives. she wants to build a centralised, undemocratic, updated form of communism, where the state controls everything and nation-state parliaments will cease to have any relevance at all. i have to say, from our perspective, that in some ways i’m really rather pleased, because you’ve just made brexit a lot more popular in the united kingdom. thank god we’re leaving. but it is in the aspects of defence that, i think, people’s minds should be focused. she’s a fanatic for building a european army, but she’s not alone. when it’s completed, nato will cease to exist or have any relevance in europe at all. and, not to be left out of this, french president, emmanuel macron, on bastille day last sunday, stood at the front of an open-top car with his nascent european defence force behind him looking for all the world like an updated version of napoleon. be in no doubt. five years of these people and the european defence union will be complete. what is there for defence can also be used for attack. you, as a house, will have no control over it. vote against this nominee. strike a blow for democracy. strike a blow for your citizens. do it today.
candidate for president of the commission. thank you very much, mr president. i must say quite frankly, as i have just heard the last speaker, i want to reiterate how much we care about our british friends, how intensely we want to work with them in the future, but mr farage, speeches like yours, god knows we can do without. (applause from the centre) and that's the beauty of this europe: this europe, where countries come together voluntarily in the european union, not because they were forced to, but because we know together that we are stronger together, that together we can defend values that are important to us and that have brought us together, that the tasks of the world that challenge us are so big that none of us can tackle them alone, but that if we work together, we develop a force, a soft power that is uniquely european, based on the values of our european union, and that makes us strong and also allows us to tackle this future that we want to face for our children with great strength and with great confidence. so i want to address some of the issues: the social market economy, a european characteristic, is precisely this beautiful combination of a powerful economy. but we know that we all work together in this powerful economy, and so the output of this powerful economy must also be returned to the people. this is the social market economy. that is why we are talking about the social pillar, which was adopted jointly by the council, the european parliament and the commission. that is, there can be no greater support for the right to work on these issues with all the ambition, all the determination. we will never be perfect, but the effort to improve, to actually tackle the individual issues in the social pillar with strength, that must be our ultimate goal. and when it comes to the issue of the sustainable development goals, which are our guiding principle, the sustainable development goals are in the interest of all of us. we have all come to understand that the clock is ticking, that time is limited, that our planet needs help, that our creation is the foundation on which we build all our life, that it must be viewed in a climate-friendly and sustainable way. and so it is in all our interests to be able to implement the sustainable development goals with all our strength and intensity. as far as the two steps are concerned, they must be taken in parallel. what i've just said implies that we need to tackle powerful changes at home in the european union, but we know that we need parallel changes on this globe of big players as well. and that is where europe can take the lead, and that is where europe must take the lead in driving this change. the paris agreement has already seen this uniquely combined effort. let us take that as a basis, let us continue to press ahead with one of the most urgent tasks we have. the second major and pressing challenge is the issue of digitisation, and here too we need to join forces. we need the forces that are able to tackle this digitalisation with impetus, to move our economy forward and to give it the opportunities it requires, but also to be able to tackle the whole issue of 'artificial intelligence' and 'cyber behaviour' with great care, caution and moderation, in the spirit of our social market economy, with an ethical framework. and we need to become more powerful in cybersecurity than europeans. we know that there are many risks there that we can only manage together. whether it's risks that are relevant to our economy, or whether it's risks that are relevant to our society. and again, no single country of ours is capable of doing this alone, but we can only build together the security for our europe that this europe deserves. people in digitization - this is the noblest task of our social market economy, that we have the basic principles of protection, namely that if someone works here, he or she also gets protection in the measure of how work is done, and the type of working conditions in which we now have to learn how to transfer them to the digitized world. the issue of clickworkers or cloudworkers - how can we implement the basic principles of protection and efficiency? i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i can only say, mr meuthen, that after listening to you, i am almost relieved that you have not given me a voice. that is the exact opposite of what i expect. (applause from the centre and the right)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would refer to annex 7, article 1 'full disclosure of financial interests' and article 2 to ask parliament to check whether there is a conflict of interest. i have a suggestion for how that might look. this is the approach: ((the speaker shows his sweatshirt with various stickers and puts on glasses.)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam minister, i would like to thank you for your report. as a newly elected member of the european parliament, i was surprised by the procedure for electing the president of the commission. it is obviously regrettable that a significant proportion of voters in europe are deliberately ignored and that the impression is created that important decisions are being taken behind closed doors. this is not building trust, but discontent. i would like to make a constructive comment. my concerns relate to the areas of internal security and border control and, in particular, to the threat of international islamist terrorism. we have seen the security challenges that have resulted from the so-called open door policy in germany and also in other european countries, and the considerable strain on the often overburdened and understaffed police and our security services. with uncontrolled immigration continuing and vulnerability to attacks such as that of anis amri and others, i fear that the real security problems we face will, unfortunately, not decrease but increase. i hope, therefore, mrs von der leyen, that you can assure us that your statements on internal security were not empty words.
i have to say, madam president, madam minister, thank you for your speech. i think she should have made the last member of the house realize that you are definitely the wrong person for this office. we have also seen that the epp has now mutated from a supposedly conservative one to a left-green group. what we heard was a document of the most laughable opportunism. she's a miracle worker. everything was there: minimum wage, gender equality, climate bank, sustainable europe, of course empowerment of children, metoo, empowering small and medium-sized businesses, fair taxes. their policy seems to be to adapt the policy to the contemporary left-green triviality. and most importantly, behind all this, there is only one thing: you, your function, your position, that is the impression of your talk. you don't care about the content. we are concerned with europe as a home, an identity, everything that makes us who we are. it seems to you that all you want is a new post, a new political trophy, yes, a new service car licence. honestly, what are you doing here? so, with this speech you gave, you can only warn everyone: this woman should not be elected the new president of the european commission.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. madam federal minister, i'll make it short: you are a misfit in every way, no matter what office. your initiatives, which are completely useless as a minister for the family, have had to be marketed by an advertising agency financed with taxpayers' money in order to be able to impose them on the german people. as minister of defence, you leave behind demoralized soldiers, a bundeswehr that has been castrated in terms of its defence capability, but in which you have instead provided extensive childcare facilities and thus transformed the bundeswehr into a ridiculous day care centre. it is, of course, only polite to wish you luck in your choice. i do so in the confidence that you will continue your destructive work in the european commission. you've agreed to renounce my support. please note the following: i say to you, as a long-time, convinced - now former - cdu voter: i would rather have my hand rot than ever vote for you or your party again in my lifetime.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the president-elect, ladies and gentlemen! what we're seeing here is a lesson in how not to do it. we have all had to listen to ourselves a great deal because of our scepticism about the promises of democracy and leading candidates here in brussels, but you will far surpass that scepticism with the election of mrs von der leyen. it was a strange spectacle that you, mr weber, who led the campaign for the top candidates, were the first to congratulate and call for the election of mrs von der leyen today, and the question i ask myself is: do you have any self-respect? anyone who has studied mrs von der leyen a little knows that she has been a complete failure as minister of defence in germany. she has turned the german army into an army in which the planes do not fly, the tanks do not drive and the rifles do not fire. and even if we vote against them out of responsibility, i can only say one thing to all those who think they must vote for them: you cannot put a bigger mushroom and a bigger explosive in the commission than someone who has failed in all the ministerial posts in germany.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. dear madam minister, when you became minister for family affairs 14 years ago, my wife and i were very happy to know you. we knew you had seven children, you came from a large family, and we were expecting our tenth child. we were hoping you'd make a good policy for the families. unfortunately, we were very disappointed. and to see today what you thought was a speech! they want to build a europe based on greek philosophy and roman law. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. without that, it can't work, it'll collapse. i fear that this building will be a new tower of babel, or that it will be a house that will now collapse because it is built on sand. i wish you could avoid that.
mr president, madam minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. the eurozone, together with japan, has the lowest growth and highest taxes in the developed world. the commission is also proposing to introduce a carbon tax in the eu. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the taxation of capital. your department has spent billions on outside consultants, most notably the consulting firm mckinsey. however, only about one third of the bundeswehr's equipment is operational. one journalist wrote: "mckinsey uses the department of defense like an atm machine, and the maxim is 'the army fails, the consultant collects, and the taxpayer pays.' my fellow citizens! do we really want an eu-wide consultation tax on how best to implement german climate and asylum policy across the eu? but our citizens certainly do not want that.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mrs mogherini, what you have put forward here under the slogan of global strategy is really nothing but a dangerous military and political wish list, a wish list especially from germany and france and the arms lobby. i am not going to hide the fact that we on the left are against this. they want to build up the eu's military capability and to assert its geostrategic and economic interests. it's about trade routes, and of course it's also about resources. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work. they really did invest billions in the arms lobby. on the other hand, cities in europe are decaying and 113 million people in the eu are at risk of poverty, and you are currently spending 13 billion euros under the defence fund on military goods, on weapons, on killer drones and the like. we reject it. we invite you to join us if you really want to do something for the safety of people, that you build social infrastructure. we invite you to prevent a possible war with iran. we invite you to do more and to work harder for disarmament agreements. that would be a strategy that would really benefit the people of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. - i'm not going to let you. in the art of war, the chinese general and philosopher sun tzu wrote, "keep your plans impenetrable, dark as the deepest night, and when you move, fall like lightning". i believe that the global strategy includes the first part of this advice, but clearly fails with regard to the second part. the global strategy is a sound document full of ambitious goals. it is not the content that moves me or engages me, it is the question of practical implementation. since the global strategy was launched, the world has become more confusing, but i wonder if the strategy will help us solve some of the critical challenges at all. our foreign policy seems to be bringing us into conflict with russia and the united states. in the last european elections it was evident that a significant proportion of european voters expressed concern about the high level of migration, and yet this strategy seems to be exacerbating the problems. so let us develop a rapid reaction strategy based on the interests of the member states. let us work to ensure that our relations with key players such as russia and the united states flourish. let us develop a real policy for the 21st century.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the iran nuclear deal was a diplomatic success by a united european union and it was rare enough, a deal mainly negotiated by women. ms mogherini, you were part of that negotiation process. however, four years later, this common achievement is in danger. it is in danger because an irresponsible us president is jeopardising it. it is in danger because the iranian regime is again stepping up its uranium enrichment. but it is also in danger because eu foreign policy is not yet strong enough to counterbalance this escalation. the recent events in the persian gulf that we are discussing here today have shown how one spark, and just one spark, might be enough to trigger a violent escalation that nobody wants. it is for all of us today, and in the coming weeks, to make sure that this conflict does not escalate further in a region that is already ravaged by war. in this regard, we as greens welcome the decision taken yesterday by the foreign affairs council to find solutions to preserve the deal. yes, the usa and iran need to talk, but i also want to see the eu supporting the call for a regional conference that was issued by iraq, for example. this could be a conference at which all regional actors sit at the table and work on a sustainable solution. but let’s be clear on one thing: this can be done only if the grave human rights abuses that have been committed are also addressed. so we also need to talk about the journalists killed, about the human rights defenders in prison and about the humanitarian aid that is currently not being granted to many people. together we are strong, and the european union is needed today more than ever to protect a rules—based international order. and i want to see us, including the member states, deliver on this ambition in the coming years.
mr president, we unequivocally welcome the developments in moldova. we stand with the prime minister, maia sandu, in her pro—european, anti—corruption and pro—democratic aspirations. we emphasise, at the same time, that any progress can be made almost exclusively by rule of law and the path of the rule of law, and we saw that it is possible. we saw it in the case of the prosecutor general, who stepped down voluntarily. we also emphasise that any progress in this area should be based on our european affirmation of territorial integrity and cultural independence of moldova. there, no cooperation with russia should jeopardise our affirmation of this belonging, nor of the belonging of moldova to european perspectives. there, i would like to address the colleague on the far right who talked about the eurasian perspective of moldova. moldova’s perspective is european, and we have to do everything in order to keep this window open for this country.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank you very much, mrs mogherini, for your very promising report. nevertheless, moldova is still the poorest country in europe today, almost five years after the eu association agreement was signed. so far, little of what was agreed in the agreement has been implemented because of the political crisis. this is why we have now reached a crucial point - after the change of government - with a woman at the helm: for the first time ever, the usa, the russian federation and the eu are working together in a country of the eastern partnership. this window of opportunity must be used urgently for reforms. moldova should receive maximum support at this crucial stage if it is to break free from the oligarchic corset. the eu should also unlock the financial aid that has been withheld and we must do everything we can to help moldova to exploit its agricultural potential in a targeted way and in a way that respects the environment. anyone who's driven across the country and seen the empty greenhouses knows what i'm talking about: the potential is huge. but at present, about one man in five works outside the country. the social dislocation is huge, and that is why i believe it is important to keep an eye on the infrastructure in rural areas - the educational infrastructure, the health infrastructure, especially in moldova - also from an international perspective.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i am not going to go into detail. it's happiness that decides where you're born on this planet, and it's happiness that decides whether you're allowed to grow up in peace and prosperity or whether you have to grow up in misery. i myself was a lifeguard in the mediterranean, and i saw the suffering there. and i still can't imagine what it feels like to sit on a little rubber boat and not know if you're going to survive the next day. i can't imagine what it's like not to be able to swim. and all you want is air, and you can't find it because there's water everywhere. and you're looking for something to hold onto, and you can't find it because it's just water. and then you drown... quietly, painfully... in the mediterranean. i would like to be proud of what we have done as europeans, but i can only be ashamed of it when thousands of people who could have been saved are drowning in the mediterranean, and when european values are drowning with them. and it's so easy to prevent people from dying. in germany alone, more than 70 municipalities have agreed to take in people. let's let them have it! and if there are laws that punish saving life more severely than letting it die, then let's change those laws. and if there are boats that can save, then let's send those damn boats. it would be a sign of strength to say that human dignity is inviolable, even in the mediterranean. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. our european values require us to help people in distress at sea. it is our humanitarian duty to help at this point. i find it shameful that we as the european union are dependent on private organisations to do this. i think it is our responsibility as the european union to take action there. that is why i think that we urgently need a new maritime rescue mission in the mediterranean to help people who are in distress at sea. these people we pick up, we need to get them to a safe haven. and i want to be clear here at this point: libya is not such a safe haven today. and besides a safe harbour, we must then work with unhcr to find solutions for more resettlement, for clear rules on migration, for a better uniform asylum system in europe with high standards of the rule of law and humanitarian standards. this is how we prevent these people from ever making their way to the boat, to the mediterranean. that's what we have to do, to make this desperation that these people have disappear.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. they act like the sea emergency fell from the sky. she's not. in the 1960s, 1970s, 1980s and 1990s, there was no mass maritime distress in the mediterranean. this sea-food disaster did not fall from the sky, it was deliberately brought here by smugglers. and what are your answers to that? it's always the same non-working answers. the first response is to throw more money at corrupt regimes in africa. it's not working. the second answer is to create jobs in africa. mr. stylianides, you can't even do that in cyprus. youth unemployment in cyprus is now at what, 16, 17 percent? she is a scandal. and the third answer, of course, is quotas -- distributing refugees by quotas. all these proposals are not working, and they haven't worked for years. the peoples of europe do not want them. they want jobs here, and they do not want more and more people coming in, living at their expense and trampling on the very values we are supposed to defend in the mediterranean. the european peoples do not want that.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not ladies and gentlemen, i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. the media and the eu institutions are not only concerned with the environment and energy, but also with panic and not with competence. co2 is not an air pollutant, by the way, and how you measure the alleged numbers of premature deaths remains a scientific mystery to me as well. it's like a bazaar of green-painted idiots. a little less limit here, a new climate tax there. instead of informing citizens, political propaganda is being made with climate and air pollution horror scenarios, which unfortunately capture many. the may 2008 directive on air quality and clean air created the prerequisite for environmental zones with driving bans. in germany alone there are currently 58 such environmental zones. good-faith citizens who had placed their trust in politics and the rule of law have been misled. because if you had bought a standard diesel car not so long ago, you now have to realize that you have been expropriated by the state. because he now owns a worthless car that is banned from many cities. the air quality in europe is improving, thanks to innovative diesel technology, modern filters and other protective devices. people are living longer and longer. for the last 20 years, particulate matter and nitrogen dioxide pollution have been steadily decreasing. the latest data from the german federal environment agency show that in 2018, the annual average value for fine dust of 40 micrograms per cubic meter was not exceeded at any of the 536 measuring points in germany. for example, in the erfurt environmental zone, the limit value for fine dust has not been exceeded since 2012. must the end of mankind now be postponed? is the world's salvation falling into the water? i'm not going to. if, as is expected, the limit values for particulate matter are halved, voila, then germany and probably as many parts of europe will be transformed into a no-driving zone almost overnight, and we will thus come fairly close to the green party's wish to turn our country into a nation of donkey carts and cyclists. i am very much looking forward to seeing how many of our esteemed colleagues and concerned environmentalists will not be taking the rowboat to the un climate conference in chile in december.
mr president, i am honoured to give my first speech in this house of european democracy. i come from stuttgart, a beautiful city in the heart of europe, but we struggle with air pollution. stuttgart has the highest pollution of nox in germany. this leads to premature death and especially elderly people, pregnant women and children are at risk. some conservatives in this parliament want to lower the standards for air quality. in stuttgart, some want to change the location of the measurement stations. this is not how it works. if you want clean air, you need to start designing cities for people and not for cars. our local communities need support for their sustainable urban mobility plans. this should be a priority when deciding on the next union budget. in europe, you have the right to a healthy environment and we need to deliver on that promise.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear colleagues, what would you say if your son or daughter did not come home one day? she went to a peaceful demonstration and never returned. what would you say if your brother or sister were declared a terrorist, just because they criticised a foreign country’s occupation? what would you say if your mother had to flee your country just because she was fighting for clean air with money from her european partners? these are sad stories that we hear from russia. stories of sinaver nimetullayev and six other crimean tatars, just recently jailed and detained on red square for peacefully protesting. stories of oleh sentsov, oleksandr kolchenko, oleksandr shumkov and volodymyr balukh imprisoned for criticising russia’s occupation of crimea. stories of anastasia shevchenko, who is under house arrest for months, just because her organisation was declared undesirable under the russian statute. some of you here talk about normalising relations with russia. this resolution is our attempt to normalise relations with russia. not hiding behind gas pipes, not hiding behind fake observation missions to crimea, but talking an honest conversation with russia for the benefit of their citizens and citizens of ukraine. this is our offer to this country. this is our offer to moscow. (applause)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to remind you that the forest grows slowly. it follows the unfathomable rhythms of nature. we must, of course, develop forestry in europe, make our forestry more natural, more resilient, more adaptable to climate change. we also need to protect our special habitats, and we need to give back more wilderness. we also need to keep in mind that we need to produce this incredibly valuable ecological resource, wood, in a sustainable way. but it will not be possible to compensate for all the ecological atrocities committed by our growth-driven industrial society in and through the forest alone. that's a bit of a state of the debate sometimes. we will not be able to meet the insatiable energy demand through the energy forest - so the criticism of biomass. we're not going to be able to look at the forest as a one-sided carbon sink. and we cannot reverse all the loss of biodiversity by a new forest policy. the agricultural policy is wrong and the trade policy is wrong, so that we can really do something about it. we can't do all this at once and quickly. the forest grows slowly, and it's slow to change. that's how our children will judge us.
i have to say, madam president, i keep reading headlines in commission communications such as 'eu action to protect forests' or 're-establishing forests'. aren't you afraid of being ridiculous? it is precisely the eu which, with its energy transition, which is free from both sense and fact, is contributing to the sustainable destruction of forests - the only sustainability of the energy transition in relation to forests. take germany, a country with over 33,000 wind turbines, many of them in forested uplands. but what do self-appointed forest and environmentalists care? the biggest pest here is not the bark beetle, but the energy transition: for example, 70 planned wind farms with about 500 wind turbines in the odenwald unesco nature park, the münsterwald, the reinhardswald with up to 800 years old trees. the list is long. so my strong recommendation is: leave sound forestry to the professionals on the ground and not to ideologically driven eu technocrats! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i think you misunderstood my remarks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commission has already made a number of important and correct statements today, and it must be clear to all of us that the european forest cannot save the global climate. but today we are showing that we are serious when we talk about the situation of forests in europe and, above all, when we look for solutions. because the forest is the loser of climate change. when trees die, as we've said many times, they don't capture any more co2. so it's important that we understand the forest as the renewable resource, as the wonderful resource that it is, to protect, but also to use. i would like to conclude by saying that we must do everything we can to give millions of new trees in europe a chance and to encourage the member states, in the framework of their european strategies, to put the ball at the top of the agenda.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank all the members for their respective contributions, which reflect the genuine interest in our forests throughout the european union. the eu is committed to protecting and restoring existing forests, including within the european union, as confirmed in the recent communication on stepping up european union action to protect and restore the world’s forests. the sustainable management of our forests can enhance their resilience against extreme events, help confront the climate-change challenge and guarantee the conservation of biodiversity and the provisioning of key services to our society. the future common agricultural policy, with a new balance of responsibilities between member states and the european union, will continue to support the sustainable management of the eu forests, based on a needs assessment and a long-term strategy, acknowledging their role in the transition towards a low-carbon and climate-friendly economy, in support of rural livelihoods and the bioeconomy, and in protecting biodiversity and providing ecosystem services. in the light of the commitments made by president-elect ms von der leyen in terms of biodiversity and climate change, in the new green deal further action could be envisaged in the context of the announced post-2020 biodiversity framework, in order to improve the conservation status and the resilience of european union forests. we will also consider forest protection and restoration as a specific priority for the future in the context of reflection on the new strategic framework for forests after 2020.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, eu forests are our 'green' wealth and fulfil important environmental, social and economic functions. they cover over 40% of the eu's territory, absorb around 10% of carbon emissions, provide jobs for over 3 million europeans and hold enormous potential for the development of the bioeconomy. at the same time, forest ecosystems are facing increasing challenges related to climate change: extreme droughts, forest fires, floods, landslides, invasive species, pathogens, etc. as a result of climate change, the number and intensity of forest fires across europe, including in bulgaria, have increased in recent decades. not only does fighting forest fires, but also restoring forests and forest habitats after a fire takes a lot of effort, time and resources. addressing these challenges requires sustainable forest management, prevention activities and enhanced cooperation between member states. in this regard, i welcome the progress made in implementing the eu forest strategy and share the need to develop a new strategy for the period after 2020 with a view to further improving coordination and the exchange of good practices between member states.
in writing. fires, storms, drought and insect infestation pose a major threat to our forests emergency measures are therefore needed. we urgently need a long-term plan to preserve our forests so that our forests can be preserved as a climate protector, recreation area, habitat for flora and fauna and economic factor. an important point is to strengthen forestry research in the fields of climate-resilient tree species and forest plant breeding, and to strengthen european cooperation in monitoring and control of pests and their spread. it would be useful if the national states worked together more closely and coordinated their research and results.
i have to say, madam president, we're here today to discuss the situation in hong kong. i think we can all agree that we support the principle of 'one country, two systems' for the governance of hong kong. we can all support the statement by the high representative and the canadian foreign minister when they called on the chinese government and the hong kong authorities to respect and recognise the basic law and that only inclusive dialogue can resolve the internal unrest that is currently affecting hong kong. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we must also be careful not to push the chinese government ever further into the defensive, so that the willingness to dialogue to further address the concerns of the people of hong kong and the international community remains. strategic diplomacy, which allows the chinese government to engage in dialogue without losing face, can hopefully achieve the results that are passionately advocated by hong kong citizens and prevent another terrible catastrophe such as the one that occurred in tiananmen square in 1989.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it's nice to finally meet you. i'm new here, and i'm wondering about a few things. i was particularly struck by what i found in a new building in my apartment in brussels: a light bulb. the older ones among us may remember that it was exactly ten years ago that the light bulb was banned here. before that, for 130 years, it shone its warm light on us, and we banned it. at that time, the aim was to force consumers to use energy-saving lamps. energy-saving bulbs actually save energy, but they do contain mercury, and mercury is not necessarily good for the environment. so the people of brussels are sympathetic to me; they have common sense, i've already noticed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. good luck to you!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. while in december, the climate circus in chile meets again with about 25 000 participants - participants who often live off the supposed climate rescue and fly halfway around the world, flying millions of kilometres and emitting i don't know how many tons of bad, bad co2, the very co2 whose existence is then so hypocritically lamented in the media and so effectively used politically; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. so while climate change watchers are gathering in the most beautiful holiday destinations - marrakech, lima in peru, south africa, bali 2007 and so on - and discovering new horror scenarios on the looming horizon, they are making it increasingly impossible for citizens to fly, restricting cars as a means of free individual movement and, of course, banning the eating of bad meat - to name a few. by the way, if there are any questions about this, yes, i'm going to chile this december, but co2 is certainly not my biggest problem there. thank you very much, very distinguished eu audience, i'm done for today.
mr president, on 24 may, just before the election of this european parliament, millions of young people went on climate strike. they have been striking, commissioner, because you are not acting. the international panel on climate change (ipcc) report and the scientists have told us that we are able to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees. their main message is that we don’t have time and we need to act now, yet nothing has been done. you will go to the un climate summit empty handed. you will not come with new, more ambitious climate targets. i’m sorry, this is a failure. therefore, this friday, millions of children and adults will again go on strike. they are striking because you are not able to deliver. they have one message, it’s simple, and i want you to hear it. they say ‘climate action now!’ (applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's now almost four years since the paris agreement, and it turns out that what we decided to do there, which is to keep global warming below two degrees -- and at 1.5 degrees if possible -- is becoming increasingly difficult to achieve because emissions have simply not gone down in those four years. now, the climate action summit is coming up in new york next week, and i'm sorry, mr cañete, mr liese, but i don't think we're on the fast track with the european union and over-achieving our goals. that's out of the question. we signed that 1.5 degrees, and if we look at what we've committed to, it's not enough, according to what the science tells us, especially after the special report last year, which again showed how big our carbon budget actually is, which is what we can still emit. so it is time - and i expect the new commission to do this - to look at all the areas: what is the impact on climate change? what is the impact on our emissions? it is not just energy policy that is involved, but of course transport policy is also involved, and of course trade policy is also involved! because what we're doing there is counterproductive in some ways, and it's actually causing emissions to go up or deforestation to go up elsewhere. i therefore urge you to take this emergency situation seriously and to do justice to the young people who will be taking to the streets on friday. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer. – thank you very much for your question. i think that parliament can play a very strong role – because it is our role to step on the toes of the new commission if they don’t take sufficient action and if they are not prepared to step up to the goals we have already agreed upon for 2030, which – we all know – will not be sufficient for what we all want to achieve. i would like to call on all groups in this parliament who are concerned about the survival of our civilisation. we have to work together as groups. we have to bridge the gaps between our political views because it is our common not only goal, but obligation. it’s our common obligation to step up in action. (applause)
in writing. only by making the eu climate neutral by 2040 will we stop the climate crisis. to do that, we have to change our society. we need a green new deal with massive investment in our climate and for social participation; if we do not, we will ensure that the already devastating costs of climate damage are passed on to future households and thus to younger generations. member states are doing too little to meet the eu's climate targets. we are far from meeting the targets we set ourselves. germany in particular should finally start acting seriously and be an example. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. they are the ones who are paying the long-term costs of short-term profit models. we cannot afford to do that. millions of young people have been taking to the streets for months. they rightly demand that we abandon the old ways of doing business and finally take new paths for their future and for our planet. we believe that a just and forward-looking policy is based on immediate, radical measures for environmentally and climate-friendly restructuring at all levels of our activities. that's what we need, climate action now!
i have to say, madam president, today the plenary elects christine lagarde as president of the ecb. in the econ committee two weeks ago, she openly admitted that the ecb had been regularly disregarding the eu treaties since 2010 and that transgressions in the public interest were to be expected in the future as lagarde . that alone makes lagarde the most honest power politician west of prague. lagarde's predecessor, draghiavelli, printed more money and broke more laws than anyone else anywhere. nevertheless, the eu grew more slowly than the entire developed world excluding japan, and the eurozone is growing even more slowly than the rest of the eu. the dz bank estimates dragi's expropriation of german savers alone at a whopping 650 billion euros. and because it robs people of their hard-earned money and only enriches draghi's cronies, draghi prescribed the terminally ill euro another double dose of medicine last week. euro has been in intensive care since 2010, and now that he's addicted to morphine, nobody bothers because the patient never leaves until he's out. mrs lagarde's freedom of speech honours her for her open admission of the lack of respect for the rule of law in the eu. but it's not acting in the public interest. the ecb is socializing the costs of irresponsible government policies and private greed. the euro is not a public good and the ecb is unfortunately no more than a financial servant.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have tried with all our might to find even a single reason to support the nomination of christine lagarde as president of the european central bank, but unfortunately without success. because christine lagarde has been made co-responsible for all those policies which have increased public debt in the european union beyond measure, just to save the private banks, german and french in the first place. and once that public debt grew to the point of excess, those austerity policies were justified, which then became the structural reforms that valdis dombrovskis mentioned earlier, which means wage cuts, service cuts, pension cuts: a gigantic redistribution from the bottom up, where the rich got richer and the poor got poorer. now they're telling us that things have changed, that they've realized they were wrong, but it's too late! we will not trust christine lagarde. let's wait and see if the changes are real and then maybe we can talk about it.
madam president, i am convinced that the council has chosen mrs lagarde because she is the closest thing to draghi that they have been able to find on the market. and i'm glad, because without draghi the euro would not exist today. and i'm glad, because we're probably on the eve of not just a slowdown, but a new crisis. and experts say that this crisis will not be a demand crisis, like the lehman brothers crisis, but a supply-side crisis, fueled by geopolitical factors, which i would list with four letters: a, b, c, i; america, brexit, china, iran. these geopolitical factors can lead to a breakdown in production chains and a drop in global wealth. and the answer will have to be, in the short term, the monetary policy that draghi and lagarde advocate; the budgetary policy, especially in those countries that have a margin, like germany; but in the medium term, a policy of holistic structural reforms will be necessary. and that's where parliament has to be.
i have to say, madam president, the policy of the european central bank is increasingly being criticized. are negative interest rates also a threat to small savings? can the loose monetary policy still achieve its objectives or are there no new dangers on the horizon? these are questions that are stirring public opinion. mrs lagarde told the committee that she wanted to continue the european central bank's low interest rate policy. i am firmly convinced that this is the case. in the current economic situation, interest rate increases or tighter monetary policy would do the rest. a slide into recession would be inevitable. but - and this too has been stressed by mrs lagarde - the central bank alone cannot succeed in sustaining the economy and safeguarding monetary stability in the long term. the need for an expansionary fiscal and budgetary policy is also urgent, and germany is particularly responsible here. the insistence on the black zero is economically wrong. we need a significant increase in investment, not only to support the economy, but also to meet the challenge of climate change.
i have to say, madam president, we have been living in the euro zone for several years in a period of interest rates that are lower than inflation. in the midst of the banking and economic crisis almost ten years ago, interest rate cuts above 2% were explicitly appropriate. but we are now in a low-interest period, a negative interest rate of 0.5%. however, some member states are not taking advantage of this historic opportunity. they talk to each other, but they don't take advantage of the opportunity. i would therefore like to point out to the ecb the dangers we face in this connection, namely that member states will not be able to control their budgets and that interest-savers, as well as my generation and the generation of future children, will no longer be able to build up a reasonable retirement provision with this interest burden. and specifically, the third possibility that's in the room is that we're going to get into another economic crisis. the past economic crises in the united states, greece, ireland and spain, which were associated with negative interest rates, are examples of this. i would therefore like to make a strong point to the ecb under new leadership: please have the courage to talk to the member states and to move away from the strict course of mr draghi!
madam president, we support mrs lagarde and we expect her to support us, that is, the greek economy. we welcome the statement he made to the committee on economic and monetary affairs about the future reduction of greek primary surpluses. this will help our economy to function better. we also believe that it should help us to deal more quickly and efficiently with non-performing loans. i think mr enria, from the single supervisory mechanism, is going in the same direction. we rely on them to help the troubled greek banks and the real economy. so mrs lagarde can do a lot for the greek economy. the third thing we are waiting for is to be included in the quantitative easing programme, which we unfortunately lost through the fault of the previous government under draghi. but of course, in order to join the quantitative easing programme which is still in progress, greek bonds must be given investment grade. that is exactly what we are going to do. the better the greek economy is doing, the better it is for the eurozone.
madam president, mrs christine lagarde obviously has the qualifications and the personal and political experience to be president of the ecb, but the socialists will vote for her nomination for three fundamental reasons: firstly, because she supports the continuation of mario draghi's monetary policy, and we need at the head of the ecb someone who is willing to overcome resistance to do what it takes to save the euro, even if by following an unconventional monetary policy; secondly, because she is already being a voice in favour of a budgetary policy of the commission and the most growth-friendly states; and thirdly, because she is presenting herself as an ally of parliament in the reform of the economic and monetary union, in the completion of the banking union and in the strengthening of the democratic legitimacy of european economic governance. that is what mrs lagarde promised this parliament, and that is what we will demand that she fulfils.
madam president, mine is another voice in support of the nomination of madame lagarde to the governorship of the european central bank, even if i disapprove of her political orientation and part of her political record. i agree too that fiscal policy is needed to bolster growth at eurozone level, otherwise madame lagarde will face an impossible task. monetary policy on its own cannot respond to the challenge of sustaining growth and creating worthwhile jobs. however, i must highlight an issue that is forgotten when the european central bank makes decisions: the plight of medium to smaller banks in the euro zone, some operating in the smaller member states. they are considered systemic banks, or almost systemic banks. their areas of activity relate to niche national markets in which larger banks have scant interest. they service many smes in their home markets which would otherwise struggle to find working capital. these banks are being burdened with the full weight of centrally established regulations on a one-size-fits-all basis under sgp and banking union procedures. they are being rendered less and less profitable, and we shouldn’t view this as a minor problem.
i think that the different positions in this debate show two things. first of all, the enormous challenge that christine lagarde faces. and if anyone's right for this job, it's her. nineteen member states in the eurozone, 28 (in brackets) in the european union with diverse economies. it will have to come up with european solutions eventually. the second thing that this debate shows is that i think we have rightly chosen an independent european central bank, which is not at the mercy of politics. that said, i must say one thing of the heart: the secondary effects of the european central bank's policies are most likely to affect people who have worked hard, who have built their own pensions and who have saved for their old age and for their children. christine lagarde indicated at her hearing that she wanted to be aware of these side effects of the policy. mario draghi then took measures that spared the banks but not the pension funds. so that would be my call in this debate to look at the side effects on pension funds as well. because let 's face it: there is a lot of talk these days about the european way of life, and my question is: is the european way of life building up debt and burdening the next generation with a debt burden they can never afford or is it also appreciating the hardworking middle class who are saving for their own retirement? i hope the latter.
i would like to thank everyone for cooperating with the electronic tests that we have run. i received seven, and i will take everyone who is on the list.
mr president, the key question for me is: what policy will the new ecb president pursue? the ecb helped to create and stop the financial and economic crisis seven years ago, but unfortunately that crisis policy was continued unabated. 260 billion euros were spent on risky government bonds and mr draghi now wants to intensify that policy. i'm glad he's leaving now. there is currently enough cheap money at almost zero interest, but this is putting pensioners in trouble, saving has become meaningless and several southern eurozone member states are not implementing necessary reforms. the president of the dutch central bank, klaas knot, and some of his colleagues have rightly reacted against this: so stop this policy. and i hope that mrs lagarde will turn the wheel.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, as a matter of principle, responsible politicians should stop publicly speaking against the euro, because the euro is better than it has been here. in this global world, he has no alternative. i would like to say to mrs lagarde of the ecb that the draghi policy should not be continued in this way. i think that should be clear to everyone. unfettered consumption in our society is creating new bubbles. these bubbles will have to be passed on to future generations. mrs lagarde is in favour of continuing this policy. but we should seize our opportunities here, with new impetus, that is to say, with new leadership in the ecb, to initiate a departure from the present fiscal policy and to strengthen the savers accordingly and not the debtors, and that we should find a balance here accordingly, so that throughout europe ... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. we, the members of the free democrats in the european parliament, together with our renew europe group, voted today in favour of the nomination of christine lagarde. mrs lagarde brings international experience at the highest level and is clearly qualified for the post of president of the ecb. we will be arguing with her about the direction of monetary policy and we have clear expectations about the content of her governance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what may have been necessary and right in a crisis must finally be brought back to avoid damage and to keep the ecb in a position to act. the increasingly cheap and plentiful money has put governments in the member states in a coma and has dispossessed savers instead of moving the economy forward, safeguarding and creating jobs. there is a lack of structural change today to stimulate public and private investment in the future. in the face of a looming downturn in europe, member states must create a better environment for growth, innovation and investment; the flooding of the money market by the ecb is the opposite. we, the free democrats in the european parliament, will therefore be critical of mrs lagarde's plans and their implementation, and will be attentive to whether they contribute to the renewal of europe and to ensuring prosperity on the continent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are talking today about the european commission's action plan against the spread of disinformation. is this a joke? the eu commission is the one who thinks it is the right one to fight fake news - it is the headquarters of all fake news production centres! the brochure '60 reasons for the eu', published by the european commission, provides the european people with a 64-page guide to the benefits of the eu and the euro. on page 16 it says: "thanks to the ecb's monetary policy, member states saved €50 billion in 2016". this is fake news! it is a deliberate attempt to mislead the peoples of europe into thinking that this much-vaunted saving is really a dispossession of their wealth. is this a tragic isolated incident? no, not at all. when the commission president writes in her own agenda for europe - and i quote: 'for my generation, europe was the promise of peace, prosperity and unity, and we have made it a reality through our common currency, free movement and enlargement' - this is the mother of all fake news campaigns. peace and prosperity were promised to us. we have the eu, a bureaucratic madhouse in which a polity completely separated from the citizen is harassing and bullying the european peoples with a frenzy of regulations and regulatory rage. the european peoples' views on this wonderful coercive union are evident everywhere you ask them: in france, the netherlands, greece, and the united kingdom, they have expressed particular displeasure. but the commission's action plan is right and important, and that is why we will support and prevent it. i'm starting today! (the speaker tears up the brochure 'a union that wants to achieve more' 'my agenda for europe'). (the speaker rejects a question on the 'blue card' procedure put forward by mr lukas mandl.)
madam president, these horrible forest fires turned the spotlight on the plight of the amazon basin’s 2.7 million strong indigenous population. these 350 ethnic groups – of which 60 remain largely isolated – strongly rely on the rainforest’s incredible richness, but their living conditions are in steep decline. government—sponsored intruders looking to capitalise on the rainforest’s resources are destroying their ways of life through logging, fire and farming. these fires were not an accident: they were deliberately set to make way for agriculture, mining, and other developments. neither is it accidental that the number of forest fires increased sharply since president bolsonaro took office. his development policy rests on making indigenous people leave their ancestral lands. the protests of hundreds of indigenous activists against these discriminatory policies have fallen mainly on deaf ears, and we must amplify their voices. we must therefore continue to use our economic power, but also our foreign policy tools, to defend human dignity, biodiversity and our planet. let me end with a statement made by marcos mayoruna, leader of the matsés tribe: ‘the forest isn’t just for us indigenous. it’s for everyone.’
blue-card question. – (inaudible) cross-party letter to commissioner malmström, signed by many people in this parliament, and it drew attention to bolsonaro’s ecocidal policies and said that we should not sign up to the trade agreement unless there were legally binding environmental and human rights standards. at that point, members of the liberal group did not sign up to that letter, and so i would like to ask mr hook: is he ready now to pledge to vote against the eu—mercosur trade deal as long as it does not include legally binding provisions on environmental protection and human rights?
i have to say, madam president, the amazon is burning, and every minute, a piece of our planet's green lung is dying. brazil's far-right president bolsonaro is blaming the devastating fires in the amazon for his policies against the paris climate agreement, human rights and indigenous peoples. but european politics also has a responsibility. last year alone, the eu imported 60 000 tonnes of ethanol, 70 000 tonnes of beef and almost five and a half million tonnes of soya from brazil. precious rainforests are being cut down every day for these insane scales. the world is on fire and we are still lighting the fire, because the mercosur agreement is a fire accelerator. more beef, more ethanol -- that means more deforestation and more fires in the amazon. and bolsonaro and the agricultural lobby say thank you. we must now take responsibility for our planet and for our climate. the protests in the streets, for example the global climate strike this week, show that we as a parliament must take responsibility. we have to stop mercosur, and we have to keep our supply chains free from deforestation, from human rights violations and from exploitation. we have the opportunity here in parliament to make globalisation fair. now is the time!
i have to say, madam president, for weeks, fires have raged in the brazilian rainforest at an unprecedented rate. the main reason is our excessive consumption of meat, for which these pastures and fields are being cleared. this criminal arson has been going on for years, destroying valuable species of plants and animals and the habitat of indigenous peoples. the countless animals that died agonizingly in the flames, the crops that burned, and the amount of co2 that was released are some of the dire consequences. the significant damage, destruction or loss of ecosystems has a name: ecocide. like genocide, war crimes, and crimes against humanity, ecocide had been defined by the united nations as a crime under international law, but the united states, england, france, and the netherlands insisted on removing ecocide from the list of international crimes. the consequences are disastrous: environmental crimes are punished only by fines. but these corporations are willing to take the risk, for their robbery brings them many times their profits. this has to stop!
i have to say, madam president, the fires in the amazon are not just a natural disaster. they are also the result of human action. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to support the development of the regions concerned. our consumption and our trade bear a shared responsibility, as the commission has recognized in its communication on the protection of international forests. but now we must act. if we are serious, we will not agree to an eu-mercosur treaty which does not contain binding, enforceable rules on the protection of forests, respect for human rights and the implementation of the paris climate agreement. mere declarations of intent - as the bolsonaro case shows - do not have any effect. the forest must be at the centre of our efforts if we are to stop the climate catastrophe and the mass extinction of species. in 2020, the eu can demonstrate its leadership in negotiating an international species protection agreement at un level and in the further implementation of the paris climate agreement. hundreds of thousands of young people will be on the streets again on friday, because they want to see action, not just words. let us not disappoint them.
i'd like to make an announcement. we have 20 more requested speeches in this debate, which is very important, and it is important that we talk about this. we also have so many requests outside the agenda, 12 of them, that as we are behind in the sitting i cannot accept them all. in the interests of transparency, i would now like to list the members who will be speaking after the debate from outside the list of speakers. the members are arias echeverría, agius saliba, avram, joveva, kelleher, chowns and konečná. i'm afraid the rest of you will be disappointed. i don't have a choice in the matter.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the news and images from the amazon are terrible; many before me have already made this clear. when we consider that the forest is being burned and cleared on a large scale not only in south america but also in russia, canada and the congo, and that even many forest areas in the eu are in a worrying state, then we must naturally ask ourselves as the eu: what can we do to preserve these vital, indispensable carbon stores? my first answer is that the eu must speak with one voice. as in the case of trade agreements, the eu must in future put its full weight of 28 member states on the balance sheet and show its face and profile in the protection of forests. and secondly, we should make environmental and climate protection a key part of our development cooperation and eu diplomacy. we are now at the beginning of a new legislature. a new commission is taking up its duties. and to be honest, i miss the environmental and climate protection theme in the mission statements of josep borrell and jutta urpilainen. climate action must be international in nature, and so a green new deal cannot be done only within the eu, but we must promote it globally and, in the case of forest protection, provide funds for certification, alternative sources of income and afforestation in development cooperation. let us take the opportunity in the coming weeks to align our new development aid instrument accordingly.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not the situation in burkina faso is a prime example of how our policies have failed to combat islamist extremism in africa, in the middle east. i think it is likely that the chaos that is now raging in this country could lead to mass migration as the population seeks safety - whether in neighbouring countries or in europe. burkina faso was a peaceful country; now it's being overrun by al qaeda and boko haram extremists, infiltrated from mali, fighters trained in afghanistan and armed with weapons from libya. at first, the killings in burkina faso were indiscriminate, they were terror against the civilian population, but now the killings are more targeted: they are attacks on christians. in fact, for example, interfaith marriage was possible, and now anyone who wears a crucifix can be killed, and churches can be attacked and burned. we cannot stand by and watch another country be cleansed of christians. we must take action to put a stop to this dangerous ideology of islamism.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the eu wants and should contribute to the solution of the kashmir conflict - a conflict that has existed for 70 years, which has become entrenched, which has triggered wars, a conflict with countless deaths, with acts of terrorism, reprisals and a lot of suffering. the eu cannot solve this problem, however, but only the parties to the conflict themselves. we, the outsiders, can only accompany this process as neutral mediators. if i have to read in the press that members of this house are taking sides and even going so far as to call for boycott measures against india, then they themselves become part of the problem and are no longer honest brokers. i can only say from experience that it does not work. as soon as we take sides - be it indian or pakistani - we lose the reputation of being honest brokers. all our serious efforts to resolve the conflict are being frustrated and thwarted.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would just like to ask the speaker how he envisages autonomy under self-government, under the administration of the kashmiris, because that country would certainly be dependent on the community. they have nothing to offer economically; they have to join india or pakistan or partition, whatever the solution is. everything else is an illusion. even the kashmiris themselves would not want this solution. i was a diplomat there for four years. i've been around the region dozens of times, and i don't think you'd find any majorities for that.
i have to say, madam president, 'britain before the chaos' denies the british and mocks the german media, similar to the hysteria before the brexit referendum. there are serious consequences, however. the uk is germany's third largest export market and, together with the usa, its most profitable. for the rest of the eu, it is the second largest sales market. in the event of a hard brexit, tens of thousands of german jobs could be lost, especially in the automotive sector. in addition, the uk's net contribution of eur 10 to 12 billion is being cut. the cost is borne above all by the ever-eager germany. now then why is the eu resisting an amicable divorce? the uk has negotiated in good faith, perhaps rather too much faith when it agreed to all of the eu's initial demands over the negotiation timetable, eu citizens' rights and the divorce bill. the eu responded by concocting the issue of the irish backstop. but who seriously believes that sporadic or electronic customs checks will lead to the resurgence of violent terror in ireland. not even michel barnier, who is trying to use the backstop to keep britain in a permanent customs union or to force a referendum. against the entire financial and political establishment, and against all received politically correct opinion, the british people voted to leave the eu by a majority of 52% to 48%, exactly the majority by which this parliament confirmed eu commission president von der leyen. seventeen point four million british citizens voted for brexit. the largest number of british people who ever voted for anything! now michel barnier is a shrewd and skilled negotiator, but he's trying to reduce the uk to a vassal state or alternatively is risking massive job losses in the eu. either, or either outcome is unacceptable. (applause from certain quarters)
madam president, being a british as well as a german citizen, brexit is quite an emotional topic for me, as for many others i guess, and the most emotional part is obviously the backstop. what is hardly ever mentioned though is that the backstop is only a temporary solution until a final agreement is signed. so why is it such a problem? it is because there is a lack of mutual trust and we see that today very clearly. some british people fear that they will be bound to the eu forever and, at the same time, the eu wants guarantees that there will be no hard border between ireland and northern ireland, and that is exactly the point. it is not only about the uk. it is also about ireland and we have every right to discuss this here because ireland is going to stay in the european union. so what can we do? exactly the opposite of what some politicians in britain and here in this house are doing, which is to become more and more aggressive and to use war metaphors – and i say this explicitly as a german and british citizen. we will stay neighbours anyway and we should stay good neighbours, in peace. (applause)
madam president, the scenario of a no-deal brexit is real. among the relevant political groups of this house we all agree on the catastrophic consequences of a hard brexit, in particular for the citizens of ireland and the british overseas territories, not forgetting, of course, the united kingdom itself. the work on contingency measures is in full swing and i particularly appreciate the commission’s recent proposals to provide support to small and medium-sized enterprises. this should be done comprehensively. but, above all, i sincerely congratulate our colleagues in the british parliament on their determination to put their prime minister in his place. this move gives hope – hope for an orderly withdrawal agreement or even for a second chance for them to remain as a part of the european union. we all, together, should take this chance, and god save the united kingdom. (applause)
i have to say, madam president, the question of cancer also concerns me personally because i lost my wife to cancer five years ago. i think everyone in this room can tell similar stories from their own backgrounds, so there will be no doubt about the urgency of cancer research. but the questions are whether we will solve cancer by bringing the programmes to the eu level, or whether we will not do so by improving the framework conditions under which research institutions and the pharmaceutical industry operate. the opposite of good is always good, and it can also be good if you make it easier for decentralized research institutions and companies to do their work by facilitating research, by giving them tax privileges. the differences in life expectancy between the younger and the older eu countries need to be addressed not necessarily through bureaucratic work, but by taking care to prevent so many young doctors from the eastern european countries going to the west. so there are often alternatives to even more centralised programmes and initiatives - however well-intentioned they may be. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of initiatives in this field.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the explanation of the council's position on the draft general budget for the financial year 2020 (2019/2710 ((rsp)).
we now come to the representatives of the political groups. i shall now be much more strict about the observance of speaking time, and i ask for your understanding. it's only fair, even to those who come later.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. forest fires, hurricanes and floods the climate crisis is destroying our livelihoods. it is destroying the livelihoods of many young people who, we feel, are right to take to the streets on friday and strike for the climate. but it also destroys the livelihoods of many farmers - for example in southern europe - whose livelihoods are being destroyed. and so we believe that we're all in this together and that we urgently need to do more. that is why we are not discussing the budget here, not boring figures, but the future of our continent. we discuss the budget and how we can invest together in our future. we greens want to stop the climate crisis and fight poverty, and we want to give all people in the european union a perspective. we must also take action to help the many young unemployed in spain, italy and greece who have not yet found work and are still in crisis. we greens believe that we need a real green new deal, with investment in climate change and youth unemployment. while merkel, macron and others in the european election campaign were still loudly calling for more investment, more joint european investment, they are now doing the opposite: they are proposing cuts in climate protection, in youth unemployment, but also in research. this can't be happening! so we greens are asking for another $3.5 billion in a first step to invest in climate. we are asking for 350 million more to fight youth unemployment and we are taking human rights seriously. we are calling for a european marine rescue programme of eur 48 million to end the dying in the mediterranean. it is our duty not to look away, but to take action. the council's proposals are unacceptable in our view. we greens are happy to be part of a constructive majority in this parliament, including for the budget. that is our aim: we want to change and shape europe. but we have to do this by doing things and by investing together in our future. so my hope is that we will get to that here in parliament and that we will find majorities for these issues here and then in effect prevail against the heads of state and government for europe and for our common future.
madam president, i support my group’s initiative to honour the barroso commission’s promise of committing at least 20% of the budget to climate within the old multiannual financial framework (mff). let me remind you that this promise was given even before the paris agreement. as it stands, we are falling short of this promise by eur 3.5 billion. i also strongly support the initiative for using the entire financial flexibility towards young europeans in erasmus and the youth unemployment initiative. but this discussion is also about something bigger. it’s about demonstrating parliament’s ambition for the next budget. in the european elections eu citizens have shown us that they expect us to be more ambitious to provide european solutions to the challenges that affect their lives. we need a budget that increases, rather than decreases, the eu’s capacity to act when it comes to climate change, migration, asylum and youth unemployment. for that we need a budget that serves european people across all member states. we should also increase the financial resources that the eu raises itself, which the treaties demand we do. we need to explain and convince european citizens and our friends in the council that giving more money to the eu is worth it and that the additional investment is worth it. let us be confident and ambitious, as the european people have demanded we be, within this budget and the next.
i have to say, madam president, mr. deputy, you're acting as if this is about your money. in fact, it is primarily in the interests of the european taxpayer, because he has earned the budget, with his work and with his taxes. the eu budget for 2020 is about 160 billion euros, an increase of about 10 billion compared to 2019, but here in the plenary we are hearing about the end of europe and the impoverishment of large sections of the population, all because the council has marginally reduced the increase. it is a question of the world in which some members of parliament live. in reality, the budget is far overrun. everyone is pretending that there is no brexit and no recession, no looming trade war between china and the us, no oil crisis caused by the attack on saudi arabia. what we have is a stupid budget because it knows no risks. it is a false budget because it sells the increases as cuts. and it is an unfrozen budget because it continues the self-service of the eu at the expense of the european taxpayer.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one. a budget that meets the demands and expectations of the european citizens. to achieve such a budget, we need to prioritise and increase funds for our young people and employment, funds for innovation and research, for our farmers, for small and mediumsized enterprises, for our defence and security, which is of particular importance to the european union and the member states. we also need to strengthen the digital economy. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a good one, but it is not enough. i do not think there is a european citizen who would want to see money going to countries which violate all these principles and values of the european union. in particular, it is unacceptable to continue preaccession assistance to a country which is in serious breach of international and european law and the rule of law and does not respect human rights, such as turkey. i believe that if we ask the european citizens today whether they want to finance turkey with even one euro, no one will vote 'yes'. it is inconceivable that turkey should violate the exclusive economic zone of cyprus, threaten and blackmail for the sake of famagusta, threaten and blackmail for the sake of migration, create a thousand problems in the region with the risk of instability and disturbing the peace, and that the european union should continue pre-accession aid. i believe, commissioner, that it is time to freeze funds for turkey's pre-accession assistance and to send a clear message that the european union is a union of principles and values which calls on those who receive aid and funds from the european union to respect those principles and values.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our citizens are asking us for a closer europe, which can respond effectively to their demands, but the council's positions on the 2020 budget proposal seem to be moving away from this objective, with significant steps backwards compared to the commission's proposal which, as parliament, we had considered to be unambitious. we want to continue to invest in a sector, the agri-food sector, which is europe's leading industry and whose strategic importance is too often overlooked. the planned cuts for 2020 do not take into account the current geopolitical situation and the effects on our products already caused by the russian embargo and that will manifest in the event of a no-deal brexit. the future of our young people and of the whole agri-food sector is at stake, commissioner. let us rise to the challenge and avoid any retrogression which would be a bad signal for the negotiations on the next financial programming.
i have to say, madam president, my dear noble father! your financial plan is timely for the middle ages. our alliance of princes is threatened, not by strangers, but by you, for you, the treasurers, act foolishly. because you are so consumed by fear, you build strongholds around our lands, you ignore the learned and you are blind to the real dangers of our time. we're going to have an eternal summer. animals are dying, fire is devouring the forests, and the sea is robbing the land. therefore, on the twentieth day of september, we will gather with the insurgents of the friday for tomorrow in the marketplaces to stop your diabolical plan. we don't give up just because of defiance. we, the destitute, the hopeless, the hopeless, stand together against you, the clueless.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have just been discussing the fight against cancer in the previous point, and we all agreed that the horizon theme has a special role to play. and now - one item on the agenda later - we see, at least in figures, the opposite. we simply have a discrepancy between what we demand in sunday speeches and what we put into practice here. we can't let that happen! the commissioner has made it very clear that we are talking about delay. you're not stopping it. and this delay means time that we don't have - not in the fight against cancer, not in the fight against youth unemployment - the longer young people experience youth unemployment, the more likely they are to become radicalized, and we don't have it in the matter of research funding: the rest of the world isn't sleeping either. of course we are talking about taxpayers' money, but if you read some of the headlines you will see that you are almost targeting the programmes which are doing particularly well, which represent a particular european added value. that's not a good idea, counselor. in this respect, we - almost two thirds of the new members - have to get used to certain rituals. it's obviously part of the ritual that you're not going to use the mower before the council. that's not a good idea either. this ritual requires that we disagree with you. i'm just trying to imagine what would happen if we agreed with you here. then you would probably be not only surprised but also very frightened. in this sense, ask parliament for this objection and in the spirit of good cooperation you will get it.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the importance of remembering europe's past for europe's future (2019/2819 ((rsp)).
madam president, how can we build a common future if we don’t remember our common past? nobody is immune to amnesia; in my country of germany, every second german does not want to deal with the history of the totalitarian gdr. we must continue commemorating the victims of the holocaust – the jews, the sinti and roma, and the homosexuals – but coming from berlin, i also insist we also must talk about the fate of our eastern european friends, of the balts and of the poles. this is something we owe to those countries as someone who was on the other side in the war. this is something that we need to bring to life, talking to the young people sitting over there, bringing it to their schools, bringing it to the internet and awakening the history. but we need to do more; we need to start listening and hearing the concerns of our eastern european friends. yes, their security concerns and their energy concerns are all rooted in their tragic past, and we have to start hearing them in order to build a common, a truly common, european foreign policy. this will be the answer to the tragic past and to the future. (applause)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the problem with these cultural souvenir papers is that they always refer to the negative aspects of european history. it is necessary, but it is too one-sided if it lacks the reference to greek philosophy, roman law, christian middle ages, renaissance and enlightenment. we must not only convey a negative image of what constitutes our identity. but even if we focus on what went wrong, what caused crime, the question is, why don't we focus on the spiritual basics? it is absurd that those who helped to set in motion the communist terror and their successors today, who still refer to these motives, should feel they must dictate a culture of remembrance. the identity of a region and a continent is its positive aspects and the lessons of the past. either we look at it as a whole and without any ideology, or it will be nothing more than a set-up educational project that we can invent here in strasbourg and brussels, but which passes by the hearts and minds of the people - and this paper deserves nothing else.
i have to say, madam president, the european culture of remembrance is an important subject, even if it is not felt in the presence of members today. but without a true account of what happened, there is no true recollection. that is why the motion is important and contains much that is true, although some of the claims are questionable. but above all, the 22 recommendations on a european culture of remembrance do not even mention the word jew. as if the jews were not part of european history and as if they were not the main victims of the nazi mass murder. even auschwitz is only mentioned in connection with a polish resistance fighter. the intention behind this is clear, for mention of the unique suffering of the jews would immediately raise the question of europe's responsibility for the existence of israel and also of the policy of the eu and its scandalous support for the deeply corrupt un palestinian relief effort. you want a day of remembrance to counter the distortion of facts as you write. you yourself distort the facts in your almost compulsive refusal to mention the jews even once. the motion as it stands is wrong, because it once again violates the jewish victims by hiding them, silencing them and forgetting them.
just a second, we have no interpretation for the moment, we will try to arrange this. maybe you can carry on a little bit and we will see if it works?
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the fifth eu money laundering directive obliges member states to pass on personal data to the european banking authority in many areas decisions against which investors and savers have little legal recourse. the citizen will be crying. the role of ngos, on the other hand, has so far been excluded from the eu's fight against money laundering. last year, the maltese ngo commissioner, professor kenneth wain, warned of the vulnerability of ngos to money laundering and terrorist financing. professor wain therefore called for the extension of eu money laundering legislation to ngos. due to massive political pressure, he had to resign. moneyval, the council of europe's anti-money laundering body, shares professor wain's concern as there is clear evidence that ngos are being used as vehicles for money laundering. i therefore asked the committee why the commission was ignoring ngos. the lapidary answer was: because the commission does not want ngos to be considered criminals. we demand that ngos no longer be excluded from the law.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. if i may give you some advice, go a block away to the courtroom of the european court of human rights and listen to the hearings there! i made this yesterday. it is not about resolutions, it is about people and their freedom. i was able to look into the eyes of mrs demirtaş yesterday, the woman who is fighting for her husband's freedom. today we are not talking about demirtaş, we are talking about four turkish mayors who were deposed, despite being democratically elected. today we are talking about adnan selçuk mızraklı, about ahmet türk, about bedia özgökçe. today, however, we are talking about more than 400 other people without office or dignity who have been arrested in the same way in this wave of arrests. today we also talk about canan kaftancıoğlu, the chp chairwoman in istanbul, who was convicted for a tweet from 2012 2012! . and yes, today this resolution is also about the safety of human rights defenders, of people who stand up for other people and risk their freedom and their safety. for example, veysel ok, who was sentenced yesterday for insulting the judiciary, was not allowed to insult the judiciary as a lawyer. but this resolution is about much more than that: it is about relations between the eu and turkey. how do we envision the future of this relationship? this future is difficult, but in this future it cannot be that 20% of all prisoners in turkish prisons are serving time on terrorism charges without these charges being properly substantiated. but this future must remain european. and that is why it is worth arguing with the turkish government, because the society in turkey is colorful, it is freedom-loving. it's worth fighting for their human rights. i know that not everyone here shares this view, but i believe it is important to continue defending the european perspective with turkey. but this perspective is built on a clear common foundation, and that foundation is respect for each other, but also absolute respect for human rights and the rule of law. that is the subject of this resolution.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. there was indeed a local election in turkey. the people have voted, they have made their choice. and what happened after that? the elected mayors were unable to exercise their office, and the municipalities were placed under compulsory administration. i say quite clearly: this is undemocratic, this is unacceptable and we must say it exactly as it is. but not only that; the acp government is also increasingly attacking chp politicians. mrs canan kaftancıoğlu has already been mentioned, the chairwoman of the chp istanbul, who was sentenced to almost ten years in prison for some tweets - i repeat: for some tweets. this is crazy! for example, in turkey, more than 5 000 hdp members are currently behind bars: journalists, opposition members and critics. they're not well. among the most prominent of these politicians is selahattin demirtaş; i would like to express my solidarity with the victims of the tragedy. all this is happening, and mr erdoğan is not acting out of a position of strength at the moment, but rather out of a position of weakness, because we saw very clearly in the local elections that he was defeated, that the opposition has united, and that something can change in turkey. but it is not only the rule of law and the question of freedom of expression and the press in turkey that are in danger. there's so much more. for example, did you know that turkey is one of the countries with the highest number of women murdered? did you know that turkey has increasing numbers of child rapes in religious institutions, that workers die in industrial accidents every day in turkey? did you know that there is a massive crackdown on trade unionists, that company organizations are being suppressed? all of this is very important to us and we need to pay more attention to it. turkey is going through a crisis, an economic and political crisis, and these crises are feeding each other. i can only say that the population is worse off. mr. erdoğan is only interested in maintaining power. let us therefore pay even more attention to turkey in the coming months, starting with our own policies. let us change our policy, let us stop being hypocrites, let us, for example, cancel the refugee pact, because more and more people from turkey are also having to flee here because they no longer have a basis for their livelihood!
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the situation in turkey is once again becoming more acute. erdogan is once again acting as an absolute ruler and now threatens the eu with a new migrant storm this is blackmail 2.0. he is taking a hard line against the opposition, waging a war against the kurds in his own country, and this is now culminating in his claim to power by removing democratically elected mayors. the official reason is usually given as support for the pkk. the strong criticism of the opposition, former prime minister davutoglu and former president gül clearly shows the prejudiced nature of these official justifications. the eu must now not only condemn this undemocratic behaviour and its threats as it usually does as a muzzleloader, but finally draw the necessary consequences. i therefore urge the european commission to end the accession negotiations with turkey once and for all. turkey is not part of europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu will continue to provide turkey with €1.18 billion in accession aid until next year, rather than finally scrapping these talks. this is also - and especially - against the background of the so-called refugee agreement with erdoğan, which was born out of the inability and unwillingness to secure its own borders. whether and to what extent this turkey agreement has actually contributed to the decline in migration flows remains questionable, despite a total of six billion euros in european payments. and now turkey is threatening to withdraw from the agreement again. we see what happened to the mayors in turkey. some of you seem to enjoy being blackmailed all the time. the european union is being led by the nose. the majority of citizens do not share these masochistic tendencies. it wants clarity and not the admission of turkey to the eu. i also ask you to end the accession talks immediately, stop the payments and finally establish clear conditions in dealing with a despot!
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. many of you are probably familiar with the tradition of giving flowers to women on international women's day, march 8th. it's a peaceful - i have to say, to myself sometimes too peaceful - sign for women's rights. actually, because on march 8 of this year, women in iran, in tehran, gave flowers in the metro. in tehran, the first and last compartments of the metro are reserved for women, and three women took off their veils there and made their concerns very clear. she said, "i hope that one day we can march together in the streets of tehran, iran, with and without the veil, because there is enough space in iran for all iranians". a video shared on social media shows women with and without headscarves embracing and clapping. the tension and the feeling of departure are real. and what was the reaction of the iranian regime? imprisonment, harassment, prison for up to 24 years. and this is not the only case. nasrin sotoudeh, who was awarded the sakharov prize by us here in parliament, was herself sentenced to 33 years and 148 lashes for defending women like those in the subway in court. one thing these punishments make clear to us: the iranian regime feels threatened by these brave women. the situation in the region is indeed complicated, and it has become even more complicated in the last few days. but i think that just when it's not so easy to distinguish between right and wrong, we have to stand here with the people who are standing up for human rights, who are fighting against discrimination against women in iran, like the women in the subway, against discrimination like an unjust divorce system, like sexual violence. and there are so many other injustices. if the rights of people are being violated elsewhere, we cannot remain silent in this house. so let us all sign this resolution together and for the women of iran.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. a proposal for a european culture of remembrance, which speaks for eight pages about genocide, crimes against humanity and all forms of totalitarianism, but does not even mention the jews, as if they were not the jews but the roma, sexual minorities or (the president interrupts the speaker).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i propose the following amendment to paragraph 4, by roll call: 'the european parliament expresses its deep respect for the millions of jewish victims of the holocaust which led to the creation of the state of israel, and for all other victims of totalitarian regimes', and so on, as in the original text. and now a request to all the anti-semites in this house, especially the greens, the left and the social democrats: stand up, please, and oppose my motion so we know who we're dealing with.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the fourteen members of this parliament present here today! i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply and for his reply to the question put by mr van miert. i'm glad you came all the way to strasbourg to fight for your honor. what are we talking about today? we are talking about the future of volunteer firefighting in europe, and with that we are talking about the security of europe. i am new here and i expected that there would be decisions and discussions here which would not always help the people of europe but would harm them. but to be honest, i couldn't imagine it being this bad in my worst nightmares. i wonder what the representatives of the volunteer fire brigade will think when they see this important subject being discussed here at 3 p.m. with 14 members of parliament. so they didn't earn more? don't they deserve more attention, more support? so what are we talking about? in germany, 1.1 million people are involved in the fire service, 95% volunteers ninety-five percent! these people are needed. you're doing an incredibly important job. it's not just about safety, it's about social life. they are the heart of social and cultural life in the entire countryside. this commitment needs support and deserves our support. we talk about promoting volunteerism all the time, and now we're doing the exact opposite. when we talk about crediting work time to volunteer work, where do we start and where do we end? what about the archer king who sits on the throne during the feast? he spends his working hours there. what about the representatives of the carnival clubs? what about coaches who coach youth teams? is that where they spend their working hours? these are issues that need to be resolved in principle and it makes me angry that we're even talking about this nonsense. we're talking about things that are completely out of this world, that nobody out there cares about. we are creating problems here, we are creating problems ourselves, and that is the essence of the eu. i demand very clearly here: no more volunteer firemen, no more volunteer work, now! good luck to you!
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you for your very intensive debate. many of you addressed the issue of brexit, which is understandable, but also many of you made remarks and comments in regard to the upcoming european council. i will convey these messages and remarks to the president of the european council. thank you very much. in terms of our work ahead, now that the strategic agenda has been adopted, it is time to look at how it can effectively be implemented and how we can work together to achieve our common goals. it is crucial for the eu to move ahead in key areas, particularly in terms of its future budget and on climate change, one of our most urgent threats. in addition, it is clear that brexit is a pressing issue for leaders next week. if you allow me, mr president, on the multiannual financial framework (mff), i would just like to remind you that tomorrow, in this very plenary, we are going to have a debate on the next multiannual financial framework, so we will have a perfect opportunity to exchange views on mff tomorrow morning. finally, on brexit, i regret to reiterate that the uk proposal is not operational. there is therefore some serious work to do if one is to achieve a deal. but a no-deal cannot be the preferred choice of the union, because of the significant consequences on citizens and businesses – even though we are well prepared. so, ladies and gentlemen, if requested by the uk for a good reason, an extension will be considered. however urgent the brexit issue is, we do have other issues on the council agenda and we do concentrate on our work. thank you very much for your attention and for this lively debate.
we thank you very much and wish you every success in your meetings with michel barnier on 17 and 18 october. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, we have high expectations for next week's council meeting. we hope that an agreement will finally be reached on the budget for the next seven years. the european parliament, in its resolution, clearly set out the priorities, that the next financial perspective must be more socially oriented and able to adequately finance the areas that most affect our most vulnerable people. we must maintain the €6 billion in funding for the european child guarantee, which will allow us to focus our efforts at national and european level to fight child poverty. we must maintain the increased funding for the youth guarantee and the erasmus+ programme. as regards the commission's strategic priorities, we expect the new commission president to deliver on her commitment to give special attention to european social policy and to fully implement the european pillar of social rights. social europe cannot be a place where more and more working people are at risk of poverty, where child poverty remains unjustifiably high and young people cannot find work.
in writing. climate change and the new multiannual financial framework we are talking about today are closely linked. we cannot meet our climate change goals without investing in social protection. unfortunately, the european commission, which is just ending its mandate, has not learned its lesson on the budget. the court of auditors presented a report to the imco commission this week showing that, in addition to the proposed budget and the new multiannual financial framework, the commission has not put forward a medium and long-term strategy. i can't understand how you can make a budget without a strategy. i ask the commission to prepare a strategy with concrete measures to ensure economic growth and social security. with regard to brexit, i would like to say that the european institutions have an obligation to ensure, first of all, the protection of european citizens, both those in the united kingdom and citizens of other member states living in the united kingdom.
in writing. i support the commission's comments. it is about finding a solution that will take the uncertainty and fear out of people's minds about how to proceed after brexit. blame has not lost its power. i hope that next week we can find real solutions that guarantee the preservation of peace in northern ireland and the protection of our european single market.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not we have already heard yesterday the crude logic of the so-called green deal, directly from the mouth of the chief ideologist and candidate for commissioner responsible for it, frans timmermans. the campaign is being launched with slogans such as climate neutrality, zero-emission cars, a zero-pollution strategy and biodiversity to save the climate. but it's all based on the still very controversial scientific hypothesis of co2 as the sole driver of climate change, and so an unproven assumption triggers an endless chain of policy mistakes. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. so now, to implement this at least questionable policy, the european investment bank is to be transformed into a climate bank to finance climate rescue. the aim is to invest €1 trillion by 2030. i'm not sure i can say that enough. the fool's boat of the eu commission policy has been set in motion and is now, under the guise of a supposedly green policy, trying to abolish the rest of the economic mechanisms.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i am not going to go into detail. corruption is a huge problem in the european union. in several member states it has reached the highest level of policy. viktor orbán has basically turned hungary into a mafia state, where hundreds of millions of euros disappear from the central bank or from eu funds. andrej babiš is also enriching himself with eu funds. in spain, in the 'belt' case, dozens of fake contracts were awarded, thereby defrauding the taxpayers. the european union must, of course, set a good example if it is to be a credible leader in the fight against corruption. that's why we urgently need institutions that are free of corruption, free of conflicts of interest, free of revolving doors, whereby politicians can move directly into high-paying lobbying jobs. 50% of the commissioners in the barroso commission now work for organisations registered in the eu lobby register. in the last five years we have had 24 cases of breaches of ethics in this parliament. none of them have been sanctioned. and transparency international just showed that: 48 members of this house earn more money outside the european parliament than they do here in the european parliament. how can we be sure that they represent the interests of citizens and not those of a company? i do not understand how this can be, and you cannot explain this to any citizen, any citizen outside. parliament has now rightly rejected two corrupt candidates for the new commission. this is a great success for this house, but i think we need to go further and create this independent ethics committee. i suggested the ursula of leyen. i am very glad that she has included this in her work programme, because we must finally take it out of the hands of the commissioners and the members of parliament whether or not ethics violations are punished. i hope you can help me with that.
i thank you very much, commissioner, for those personal words. i haven't had the pleasure of working with you, but i'm sure the house will reciprocate your good wishes. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in northern syria (2019/2847 ((rsp)). before we get into the discussion, i should like to inform you that we are still testing a new system which will enable members to use spontaneous word messages and blue cards electronically. you have already received information on how to use this system by e-mail and the instructions are also on your desk. members may use the function buttons on their electronic voting machines to submit a request for an oral report. i would therefore like to remind you politely to bring your voting card so that you can also use this system. please note that in parallel with the use of the electronic system, a standard registration is also possible, i.e. by raising a blank sheet of paper or by registering in person at the beginning of the debate with the colleagues from the plenary for spontaneous contributions and by raising a blue card for the blue card procedure. if you'd like to register a spontaneous word message, you can do so now. you do not have to wait until the end of the debate.
thank you very much for the punctual landing. i would like to point out that we already have a large number of requests for spontaneous word-replacement, and since we are already behind schedule, out of respect for those who will come after us, and also in the interests of the translators, i will select only five word-replacement. so there's no point in reaching out now.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in ukraine (2019/2834 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the people of ukraine have carried out a revolution at the ballot box with their election decision in the parliamentary elections on 21 july. more than 80% of the rada's members are new. this is both an opportunity and a challenge for ukrainian democracy. it is therefore in the interest of all of us to continue to support this young democracy in ukraine to the best of our ability. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the situation in ukraine is not the same as in the former yugoslavia. because ukraine is also still in a real war in the east of the country, and there are also almost 3 million internally displaced people. at the same time, we should be honest and also subject the country to a critical monitoring. we must take the fight against corruption and the oligarchy more seriously. we owe this to the young citizens of ukraine, especially the younger generation. under the old government, important reforms were initiated: decentralisation, health reform and public procurement are among them. taking these reforms to the next stage and thus improving social standards, especially in the regions, would be an important signal to strengthen confidence in the policies and institutions. the success of the reforms in ukraine will therefore depend on whether and how we in brussels accompany, support and at the same time take responsibility for the new colleagues in the ukrainian parliament.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your reply. a few weeks ago i was able to participate in an election observation mission to the parliamentary elections in ukraine. i remain impressed by the commitment of the people, especially the young people, in ukraine and their commitment to democracy and the rule of law, and i am a firm believer in the territorial integrity of the ukrainian state. i am therefore pleased that the minsk talks have resulted in the holding of local elections in eastern ukraine, with the participation of observers from the organisation for security and cooperation in europe to ensure that the elections are free and fair. i am even more pleased that these elections will not take place until troops have withdrawn from the area. de-escalation is welcome in any case. this is a bold step by president zelensky and all the other parties to the conflict involved, and i sincerely hope that we can support this initiative.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the climate crisis, social fragmentation or even digitalisation: all the big issues of the future can no longer be solved at national level. we need a strong european union for this and we greens want a strong european union. we want an eu that is ready to give all its citizens a future and that is climate neutral in 20 years' time. to do that, we need to change the eu, and we need to invest massively. the financial framework offers us the right opportunity to do so right now, and that is why i should like to say very clearly at the outset: the position of the german government and of many other member states is damaging to europe. it is populist to simply stand for a budget of 1% and to fight for a small budget. the german government and others are acting anti-european. we expect more from chancellor angela merkel and finance minister olaf scholz in particular! we expect them to be courageous in their stand for a strong europe and not just slow things down. we have no understanding of this regular table position. because cutting the eu budget is destroying our climate. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and has called for the immediate release of the remaining prisoners. the biggest part of the eu budget is still spent on climate-damaging agricultural subsidies - we have to change that! instead of mass livestock farming and mass production, we want to promote environmental protection and species-appropriate animal husbandry. we want to invest in renewable energy, in public transport and in better european rail links. social and environmental investment go together for us, and for us greens it is one of the biggest scandals in the european union that over 120 million people on our continent are forced to live in poverty. we cannot accept that and we must do more as the european union to fight poverty. we are therefore particularly pleased that we have succeeded in reaching a broad consensus on important positions in parliament's negotiating team on the financial framework, that we are united here in parliament on the major issues, that we are ready to act and that we will jointly enter into tough negotiations with the council, because we have to negotiate tough. it is about our future, it is about the future of all the people in the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. i am pleased to be giving my first speech here in the european parliament as rapporteur for the renew group on the multiannual financial framework. because with this eu financial framework we are setting the priorities for policy in the coming years. i believe that this eu budget must be future-oriented and above all future-oriented and bring real european added value. we do this by providing a large budget for big issues and a small budget for small issues, and by setting priorities. the major european issues for me are above all the promotion and management of digitalisation, support for research, more erasmus, the fight against climate change and, above all, the fight against terrorism and the protection of our external borders. but in the negotiations on the financial framework, my group will pay particular attention to one thing: it is not possible to accept european money with pleasure and then trample on european values and rules. the eu is a community of values and those who do not support the eu's basic values should not receive any financial support from the eu in the future. with us, renew europe, there will be no discount on the rule of law and on fundamental values in the eu, and that is what we will be advocating in these budgetary negotiations. we want a financial framework which actually takes this into account.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank mr andresen. i learned something. i have learned that the council is populist if it does not want increases. i like to be a populist, if that's the definition of populism, because we don't want to spend any more money either. but what is populism? in this case, numbers were repeatedly mentioned. the commission wants 1.14% of the national income, the parliament wants 1.3% of the national income. that sounds very harmless, but those are small numbers. but if we convert that, it is 11%, and that is 30%, and you should say that to the citizens, the citizens whose expectations you want to meet. it is the citizens who are at stake here, and if we keep talking about increases and the citizens are not 100% in favour of this, then i think we are simply throwing sand in their eyes, and we do not want that.
in accordance with rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure, three motions for resolutions have been tabled. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. i would like to thank you very much, madam minister, and i would like to thank you for your help in the next council. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. if the uk leaves the eu, the other trees will bear even more fruit, because the eu budget is set to increase, despite the fact that a good €10 billion is missing in the future. germany, which already contributes over eur 25 billion, or over one fifth of the eu budget, accounts for most of the extra costs. if britain leaves, the german contribution will increase by at least a quarter. for germany, the budget contributions are just peanuts, not because germany is so rich, but because the total costs of the eu are much higher. since 2010, german taxpayers and savers have not only paid 25 billion euros, but between 135 and 174 billion euros annually to save the euro. the lion's share of these costs is represented by approximately eur 36 billion of lost interest income for savers, approximately eur 90 billion of targeted loans and up to eur 400 billion of default risk for the over eur 2 trillion of bonds accumulated by the ecb since 2015. in total, germany subsidises the eu and the euro by between eur 160 and 200 billion a year. the costs of the euro and the eu budget for the other eu member states are at least as high. in total, the eu and the euro cost eu citizens at least some €400 billion a year.
the next item is the debate on the report by yana toom, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on employment and social policy in the euro area (2019/2111 (ini)) (a9-0016/2019). before i open the debate, i should like to inform you that we are still testing a new system which will allow members to register spontaneous votes and blue cards electronically. you have received information on how to use this system by e-mail, and the instructions are on your desk. members may use the function buttons on their electronic voting machines to submit a request for an oral report. please note that in parallel with the use of the electronic system, a 'standard' registration is also possible (by raising a blank sheet of paper or by personally registering with the plenary colleagues at the beginning of the debate for spontaneous comments and by raising a blue card for the blue card procedure). i would therefore like to remind you politely to bring your voting card so that you can use this system. if you'd like to register a spontaneous word message, you can do so now. you do not have to wait until the end of the debate.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. there are reports that come at the right time, identify the right problems and call for committed action. the report by rapporteur toom is one of them. thank you very much for that, mrs. toom. i would like to emphasize the aspect of the disadvantage of disabled people, not only because of personal concern but because it is a structural problem in the field of employment. the report notes and expressly regrets the disadvantage suffered by disabled people. the above-average unemployment rate and the high level of longterm unemployment are clear signs of this. access, inclusion and participation are human rights. the european union has ratified the relevant un convention in 2010. equality and non-discrimination must therefore be given priority. the report emphasizes this. economic and social policy in the eu must go hand in hand, and the social budget must be sufficient to do so.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. europe is colourful and diverse, and europe is very diverse nationally and regionally, and that must remain so, that is our strength. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the labour markets in europe are very different from one region to another and we need regional solutions. we also reject the european minimum wage. we are in favour of the german minimum wage, but a european minimum wage would lead to massive distortions of competition. we also reject the european guarantee against child poverty. of course we have to fight child poverty, that's clear. but there are already three funds and they're fucked up, they've brought nothing. i myself was affected by poverty as a child. in my hometown of gelsenkirchen, there are now the most poor children in germany, and something must be done. but we cannot always try to solve these problems with money, we are creating the wrong incentives here. the poor have children, that's the problem. we need to get these people to work. this is how you fight poverty. social is not the one who distributes other people's money. social is the one who works a lot.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
thank you minister. the parliament will now convene the conciliation committee, and we move on to the vote on the second report by mr howarth, by roll call. the vote is open.
that concludes the vote.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the reasons for the failure of thomas cook - a tour operator established for 178 years - may not yet be fully understood, but the consequences are. we are talking about 22 000 jobs at risk and about losses of between 250 and 500 million euros for greece alone. what we are seeing here is at least the result of a - and we just saw it here - witch hunt, a mood-setting campaign under the guise of a new golden calf in the form of climate protection, which has found its first victim in the tourism industry. other companies, other industries will follow. i am thinking of course of my own country, bavaria, and of the car industry there. it has also fallen into the crosshairs of the zeitgeist. i ask that we in the european parliament not join this witch hunt, but that we do everything in our power to ensure that such cases are not repeated. we must prevent, at least from the legislative side, further obstacles to our tour operators, such as the european green deal, and we must recognise that the death of european tour operators is not helping the global climate, but that it is competing companies that will enter these niches. i would therefore ask you in conclusion to stand by our tourism industry in this difficult time - not like the green member here - and to support our motion for a resolution accordingly.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the images of halle and other attacks in europe are staggering. but it is not enough to mourn the victims. it must also be astonishing that for years anti-semitism has been gaining ground in europe - unnoticed, often underestimated, sometimes even disguised as a peaceful protest, for example by the anti-israel anti-semitic bds movement. the use of the word 'jew' as a swear word and the exclusion of 'jew' in our streets and schoolyards, as well as crude conspiracy theories, show that anti-semitism is widespread in everyday life. one in two eu citizens considers anti-semitism a problem in their country, according to eurobarometer. yes, no protection from this synagogue in halle on yom kippur is a question, but why are synagogues seemingly more endangered than mosques and churches? why do we have to station police there? what deficiencies can be identified in our societies that allow anti-semitism to arise in the first place? how do young people grow up, what are they taught in schools? are we really out of history? and that after the disaster of world war ii? how do the media, how do we deal with anti-semitic stereotypes? how do we respond to anti-semitic incidents? do we really care that our fellow citizens no longer feel safe, that jewish families are leaving europe? it is not allowed, ladies and gentlemen. schools must be equally focused on the shoah and jewish life today. it needs tailored education, it needs prevention. young people need to learn to deal with digital violence as early as possible; exchanges with jewish institutions, israeli-european youth work, active city partnerships are all in focus. only by recognising that anti-semitism threatens us all - all of us - will we be able to protect europe's community of values. we must therefore act against anti-semitism. no matter what their origin whether right-wing, left-wing or pseudo-religious: anti-semitism affects us all, our democracy, no matter what ideology it comes from. that is why we must show ways of getting along better. we must act decisively, as citizens and as the european parliament.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we still have in our minds the terrible images of the bloodshed of halle. a right-wing extremist assassin has killed two people, two wounded survived. the unbelievable has happened: a man murders out of hatred for others - jews and jews, migrants and migrants - and this in the middle of europe. we must be clear: this attack was anti-semitic and racist. it was directed against our open society and against our european values. and it's obvious the unsub is not alone in his hatred. the chemnitz witch hunts, speeches on the great population exchange, fascist quotes from salvini, le pen's hate speech against immigration, burning refugee homes, jews being beaten for wearing a kippa, the murder of walter lübcke, and now halle - all of this is connected. for years the forces of the right have been working together - also in this parliament - to create a climate against minorities, and this is the breeding ground for hatred, which leads to a social climate in which right-wing violent people no longer have to be afraid. here in parliament too, right-wing forces are putting the lighter closer and closer to the gas can. you're the political arm of right-wing terrorism. i cannot say it enough: we must take decisive action, much more decisive than before, against all forms of anti-semitism and racism. with education, with information, but also with criminal prosecution; and then thank you to the commission for putting a new emphasis on this, that much more attention should be paid to legal terrorism than before. what happened in halle is a highly european matter, because the right wing was networking across europe. we definitely need better european cooperation between our investigative agencies and intelligence services, but above all we need a completely different approach in politics to the fact that terrorism is linked to the european and global legal systems. and we must strengthen all the democratic forces that oppose right-wing incitement and incitement everywhere in europe - at the table, in the streets and in parliament. thank you to all those who defend our open society and our european values every day.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. as in halle, people have been murdered indiscriminately in europe for years by racists, fanatics and right-wing extremists. and yet, the political answers to these questions are always the same. some - as now in germany the cdu - want to ban computer games, others want to raise the bar and still others simply want to collect more data and restrict civil rights. none of that would have prevented the attack in halle. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind in the face of the terrorist attacks. but every anti-semitic attack in europe is actually a state failure, and i am especially ashamed as a german that jews in germany and europe must again feel unsafe. but what mr meuthen has just said, that the increase in anti-semitism is mainly due to the influx, to migration, is simply factually incorrect. the federal criminal police office figures show otherwise. overall, anti-semitic crimes have increased, including those with foreign background, but even more so have far-right crimes. in 2018, there were 1,600 far-right crimes and 154 with foreign background. so if we do not say clearly that anti-semitism is also right-wing, we are putting ourselves on the wrong foot and we must take a firm stand against this hatred.
i have to say, madam president, for days people have been talking about the halle incident, for days people have been talking against each other, past each other. the right pretends that it has nothing to do with the incident, that it has nothing to do with calling the holocaust a piece of history, that it has nothing to do with calling for a 360° turn in the politics of remembrance. even today, they talk as if they had nothing to do with it. i myself, as a member of the jewish community, as a german, as a european, was ashamed when i heard about this incident. and yet i stand by the fact that this incident happened for the right reasons. but there's also a lot to do to the left of center. we too, of course, make it too easy for ourselves if we only look to the right. many such debates go round and round. the endless debates we have now - whether to single out or not, whether to have a gamer scene or not, whether to ban the afd or not: all in vain if we don't find the right people to blame. we are responsible ourselves, not all guilty, but all responsible. we're stuck in rituals, instead of talking about tacheles, including our own behavior and the behavior of our families and colleagues. and yes, we can also do simple things here, we can protect the ngos that are fighting right-wing and left-wing anti-semitism. we can strengthen the framework for minimum security standards for jewish institutions across europe. we can also clarify the framework decision on racism, so that hate crime is finally prosecuted in all member states. and the new commission president can do one very simple thing to show that the fight against anti-semitism is a matter for the commission: she can appoint the wonderful katharina von schnurbein, the coordinator for the fight against anti-semitism, to her staff as commission president. that would be a real fresh start for the new commission.
i have to say, madam president, if i understand this correctly - if the interpreters have interpreted this correctly - it was just said that the people sitting across from us, that is us, are joining hands with right-wing terrorism. that is a clear insult! i am expecting a call for order from the bureau to the members.
- i'm not going to. i didn't see it that way in the debate. we 're happy to use that ... (interruption by mr fest) let me finish. if it's your turn, you'll have the microphone. otherwise, i've got the microphone. we shall check that against the minutes and then discuss it. that means we will continue the debate until then.
colleagues, please. it’s the right of a speaker to accept or not accept. it’s the right of the speaker, sir. i am sorry, we will continue in the debate.
mr president, violence with political or religious motives is not new in europe, but we should be very concerned to see an increase in attacks on political dissidents, religious buildings and communities, and members of vulnerable social groups. a sense of deep frustration has crept into parts of european societies, manifesting itself in the worst possible ways, which must be clearly condemned and sanctioned. the attack in halle, where two people were killed outside a synagogue, is another reminder that violent individuals and violent ideas exist on all sides of the political spectrum. they are equally unacceptable and equally to be dealt with. the desecration of places of worship and cemeteries in certain member states has been particularly frequent. it's not just minority religious communities that are targeted, and it's not just right-wing radicals that are the aggressors. left-wing extremists are frequent attackers of catholic religious buildings and we should speak openly about that in this house as well. fellow citizens, crime is crime, and a criminal is a criminal, no matter what color they are or what nation or what belief.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the fact that we are talking about halle today - halle is in saxony-anhalt, germany, it is my constituency, it is my home - makes me very sad today. i have been a member of the european parliament for more than five years, and i have always fought for my country here at european level. i wish we had never had to have this debate. i would like to thank all those who took part in this minute's silence in parliament in brussels almost two weeks ago and showed their sympathy. this has had a corresponding effect on the people back home, and it has impressed the people very much. we have many, many thousands of extremists in germany - right-wing extremists, left-wing extremists. many of these are known to the authorities. it wasn't this guy. this is a perp that the authorities didn't know about before. and we have something in germany too. that too must be said, it is also part of the truth: we have seen in the bundestag, as well as in many state parliaments, the introduction of language which i would not have thought possible. we see nazi language in german parliaments. and these people, these people's representatives, as they call themselves, are not legally guilty. but they provide the breeding ground for what happened in halle. words become deeds. we must stand together, we must stand together, and we must not give a platform to such people.
i have to say, madam president, this anti-semitic attack in halle is only the latest example of this racist development in europe. the sinti in germany and italy are being burned, the roma are being targeted for murder, and all minorities are being subjected to hatred and incitement. we have these agitators and arsonists sitting with us in parliament. your empty slogans, your dull racism, are the basis for political violence against minorities on our continent. your nationalist fantasies serve as a mirage that distracts from real social problems for which you have no solutions to offer. you can only do one thing: divide, incite, incite and incite. ladies and gentlemen, the way we protect the most vulnerable members of our society is a yardstick for our democracy. anti-semitism and anti-gypsyism have no place in our society. kevin s. and jana l. did not die in vain. we must pursue right-wing networks with determination throughout europe. we must support civil society more in its work against right-wing hatred.
i have to say, madam president, the right-wing terrorism in germany is a danger, but unfortunately we do not know how great this danger is and where the source lies. what is certain is that the german constitutional protection was significantly involved in the nine murders of the nsu murder squad, in such a way that the merkel government thought it right to close the files for 150 years - 150 years, this has never happened in the history of the federal republic, but the government will have its reasons. the same man from the constitutional guard who played the key role in the nsu murders also appears in the murder case of kassel's prime minister walter lübcke. he had contact with the perpetrator, and that's certainly not a coincidence. and a ban case against the far-right party npd was closed by the federal constitutional court because even the judges lost track of who is actually a party member and who is an agent provocateur of the protection of the constitution. it is the same body that held its protective hand over anis amri, the islamist assassin of berlin, and is now massively obstructing the investigation of this case. right-wing extremism should not be underestimated, but that it is being instrumentalised by the protection of the constitution, that the protection of the constitution is part of this right-wing extremism, is beyond question.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. on 9 october, a few days ago, there was a bloody attack in halle, in which, as we have heard several times today, two people were killed and two were seriously injured. cynically and purposefully, the perpetrator has chosen the holiest day of judaism, yom kippur, and planned to carry out a massacre on that day. in germany, anti-semitic crimes increased by almost 14% in 2018 compared to the previous year. they start with verbal hostility and they obviously end with murder. the far right is finding more and more ways and platforms, including off-line, to connect and openly display their anti-democratic views. there are apparently more and more people who define their identity by belittling and excluding others. they are noted for their verbal derailment, which sets the stage for attacks ranging from physical assaults to assaults. nine out of ten european jews feel that anti-semitism has increased in their home country. this is not only a matter of concern, but above all a matter of action. prevention is important, but it is obvious that it is no longer enough. we must not tolerate those who argue with hatred and incitement and who oppose our liberal democratic order. i therefore thank the members of this house for having this important debate with us tonight, and i hope and rely on this to ensure that we stand together against hatred and incitement, against incitement and attacks.
i have to say, madam president, hatred of certain groups and minorities has led to a number of murders. against hate and incitement, all people must stand together and collectively resist, instead of now placing gamers or internet users under general suspicion. the political response to such acts must be more democracy and citizen participation, a more open society and more humanity, instead of now bringing out of the box long-prepared surveillance plans or anonymity bans that could not have stopped the halle assassin in his tracks. we need to finally invest in the sustained funding of civil society work against human hostility, in intervention programs to deradicalize online, in the consistent tracking of hate crime online and offline, instead of wasting our resources on nationwide mass surveillance programs or data retention. we must never give up our values in the fight against violence, otherwise the terrorists have won.
i am not going to go into detail. i shall not allow any interim questions for the spontaneous vote which is now to take place, so that we can give as many of our colleagues as possible the opportunity to speak. spontaneous speech
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the criminalisation of sex education in poland (2019/2891 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, people should have the right to learn about love and sexuality. when young people have questions about their gender and sexuality, they need answers. science is telling us that some young people already at the age of 12 or 13 are beginning to have questions about their sexuality, about love or about their body. it is important that young people get answers. it is important that they learn to love, to say no, and to get self-confidence. the worst thing you can do is to ban sex education. if you ban sex education in public schools, young people will ask others or they will be anxious. we should trust public school teachers and we should support age appropriate sex education in each member state. we should support equal rights for women, for lgbti and for all young people who want to live in freedom. the polish government is creating fear. it is the worst thing you can do to young people when you are creating fear and when they can’t live in freedom about love or their sexuality. worst affected will be young women and queer people in poland. young women should learn about their rights from a young age. they are mostly hit by sexual violence and suicidal thoughts are much bigger among young queer people than in others in poland and in each and every member state. the polish bill is a bill in a row of many initiatives discriminating young women and young queer people in poland. for us the greens, it is important to stand in solidarity with queer activists, with feminists in poland and to say ‘you are not alone!’ you are right and you have us on your side. still, it is the polish government or maybe the polish court that will decide about the ban but still in the european parliament there are meps listening and supporting you.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not we are talking today about the alleged criminalization of sex education in poland - a proposal that has apparently been put on the agenda by the polish opposition. the attempt is made to discredit the decision of the polish government - a democratically legitimised government, to be sure - and it is hoped that the all-powerful and all-knowing european parliament has taken a different position on this issue. this is an outrage from the sovereignty of the polish people. there may be some disagreement as to whether the sex education of children should be in the hands of the state or of the parents. but what is not disputed is whether children are taught in elementary school about all forms of sex, from anal to oral, and are encouraged to have sex with anyone - anytime, any way, any place, with anyone. the sex education curriculum has also been implemented in germany. for example, according to a brochure by pro familia (sic!), our children should sniff each other's buttocks with their eyes closed to guess whose child's buttocks it might be. this is not sex education, this is the disgusting attempt to sexualize our children as early as possible. the natural shame of children should be destroyed, they should be educated to be aloof. but this opens the door to the pedophiles of the world, because the sexual abuse of children who are not at a distance is many times easier. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i congratulate the polish people on having a government that takes the protection of our children seriously and protects them from this disgusting left-wing, perverse ideology. the members who voted to put this item on the agenda should be ashamed of themselves. i can only say "fuck". shame on you!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this sweater i'm wearing today is fair trade fair fashion. i had to go to a special store and really think about what the label means, to buy a piece of clothing that is free from child labor and exploitation. it can't be, this is a world gone wrong! it should be the other way around: all the products we wear must be free from exploitation and child labour in the first place. all products available for purchase in the eu must be free from pollution and deforestation from the outset. volunteering in an opaque labeling jungle is not going to get us anywhere. it's 2019, and we have a few years left to reach the sustainable development goals. we need legislation now that makes human rights and environmental standards mandatory along the entire supply chain. the global race for the lowest standards must end. let's work together to finally get the eu a supply chain law!
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr jean-claude, it is my duty, on behalf of the green group/european free alliance, to do you justice here after five years in office. five years ago, like a number of my colleagues, i voted for you as president of the european commission. i did so when you were the one under whose auspices your country, the grand duchy of luxembourg, had become a financial centre and a tax haven, to say the least. maybe, i thought, poachers are the best hunters. between the hard work of margrethe vestager and pierre moscovici - and let us not forget the hard work and pressure of our parliament - it can be recognised that, during your term, the cause of tax justice has advanced, but it has remained faced with a major obstacle: the stubbornness of the member states to refuse any tax harmonisation. you could have avoided this obstacle by resorting to article 116 of the treaty, but you did not have the audacity to do so. to be frank, your concern for social justice has often led me to regard you as a social democrat who has lost his way in the epp group. in this respect, the revision of the directive on posted workers, the establishment of a european labour authority and the adoption - although at this stage essentially declaratory - of a european pillar of social rights have all been undeniable successes, to be credited to you and to your commission. likewise, you have adopted, as my colleagues have said, a less ideologically restricted application of european rules of economic governance, thus mitigating, a little bit, an austerity that has become deaf and blind to the demand for human dignity. it is no doubt this same demand for human dignity that has led your commission to spare no effort to ensure that europeans provide a collective and united response to the challenges of asylum and migration, but here too the council has blocked any progress and i regret the absence of mr tusk, who is bent on his obsessive bias towards a fortress europe. but while your social fiber is undeniable, your environmental consciousness seems to me to be largely unbuilt. our common home is burning. it is burning with a climate that is going haywire, with a biodiversity that is collapsing and with resources that are running out. at the heart of this conflagration is a globalisation which is being driven by free trade agreements in their current form, which privilege capital holders, often improperly called investors, and reduce social, environmental and democratic tax standards to the level of decorative accessories, which are of course not binding. you would have liked to have concluded a similar treaty with the united states, and you yourself said that you had concluded some 15 such treaties with others. you have also advocated a common agricultural policy which is essentially productivist, contrary to any climate or biodiversity ambitions. contrary to your promises, and we deeply regret it, because you made that promise when you came before our group five years ago, you blocked any progress towards the banning of endocrine disruptors and you did not democratize the authorization of gmos. too often your commission has refused to confront the interests of big business head-on. this is evident, for example, in your eagerness to protect trade secrets and, by comparison, your timidity to protect whistleblowers or to confront the automobile industry, not only with its responsibilities but also with its cheating. we therefore have mixed memories of your five years as a transitional european commission which, in the final analysis, may not have fully appreciated the existential challenges we are facing. you were telling us to head up the last chance commission. the result of the european elections in may fortunately proved you wrong. your work has contributed to this, but i also believe that the greens/european free alliance have contributed to it in full. the logic of national preference did not win the day. and like you, we fight it. however, the danger is not eliminated. it will be up to your successor, both the president and the new commission that will succeed yours, to take a decidedly different course if, as you wish and as we wish, we wish to reconcile all europeans with the idea of european integration, which constitutes, i remind you, the first experience in the world of transnational democracy.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president juncker, five years ago when you came to this house, i expressed strong doubts that you might be the right person for this european renaissance, but we gave you the benefit of the doubt. after five years, we can say that this doubt has become a certainty. you are giving us back a europe worse than the one you took over five years ago. a divided europe, a weak europe, a sick europe that is unable to respond to the challenges of the modern age and to the three main problems that european citizens had asked it to solve: the problem of managing migration flows, the problem of economic growth and the problem of internal security. the commission and its mandate over the past five years have failed in all three of these objectives and the causes are not to be sought outside these institutions. the causes are internal. the causes are the wrong policies that you have pursued, repeating mistakes made by the previous commission. you have spoken of the alleged successes of your commission. you spoke of growth, but growth is asphyxiating and europe is losing ground to the other great powers outside our borders. he didn't say anything about deindustrialization. today, large european companies have gone bankrupt or are no longer in business, and he spoke of his investment plan. he said, "let's say they're true", which brought in $140 billion more investment. it is a pity that you have promised this institution 315. i don't know if 50% of what he promised can be considered a success. i think there are millions of european citizens who are happy that you can enjoy your lavish pension because your commission has been the worst commission in recent years and in the history of the european union, but take comfort in the fact that i think your successor will obviously be able to do worse. this is not good news for the citizens of europe. and we will make sure that the grave mistakes you have made over the years are not repeated.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, president juncker, let me start by acknowledging your commitment to public service. there are a lot of good things that you should be commended for, and the work of your team, too, should be appreciated, like making efforts to strengthen the single market, increasing the security of our energy supplies, leveraging investment into our economies, and good plans to strengthen small and medium farms, and a couple more points. these initiatives should not go unnoticed. however, your tenure has been marked by many disappointments, and losing one of our biggest member states, one of the most influential states internally and externally – in the world – is a disappointment of historic proportions. and don’t tell us you won’t take any responsibility for it because you should. what worries me, also, is that the uk’s departure did not, as it should have done, trigger any period of reflection, of looking for the deep causes of what happened. mr barnier was talking about reflection earlier this morning, but i expected that to have happened before brexit, not after brexit. instead, we had a politics that deepened the divisions and aggravated the problems. the outgoing commission – your commission, president juncker – has embarked on the most sustained pursuit of democratically elected eu governments we have ever seen, and this was a policy of abysmal arrogance and arbitrariness which obviously must have resulted in shocking double standards. you were preaching the importance of rules to some countries, and you were turning a blind eye when others were breaking rule after rule. we had a country that was allowed to flout the established migration rules, and then there was a divisive policy that was imposed on member states and voters, who never wanted any part of it. the eu, as i see it, was always supposed to be about bringing peoples and countries closer together, not pushing them further apart. the outgoing commission, i’m sorry to say, mr juncker, is the first that did more to push peoples and countries apart than to bring them together.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr juncker, your term of office and that of your commission is coming to an end and it is therefore time for budgets and tables. i am sorry that i do not have the time to give you a grade for each subject, because there would be many shortcomings. i would like to focus on one of the most important legacies: the investment plan bearing your name: the junker plan. a plan that, instead of focusing on renewable energy and energy efficiency, still finances fossil fuels today. just look at the projects of common interest in the energy sector: of the 195 projects approved in 2017, 77 were gas-related and 7 were oil-related. the same for 2019, the draft of the new projects in fact has as many as 55 related to fossil sources. is this really how we want to start an energy transition? in a historic climate emergency, you have therefore dramatically delayed the action needed to counter climate change, and this will have to be explained to young people protesting in the streets across europe and to future generations. these days, as you know, we are discussing a new investment plan, this time sustainable, we hope, proposed by president von der leyen: a trillion euros to deal with the climate emergency. i hope, however, that this parliament will not be fooled again by the mirrors for the allodle and the alleged leverage effects promoted by your plan, which, moreover, the court of auditors has also raised and is raising doubts about, and that it will join me in asking president von der leyen for concrete guarantees that there are real resources in this green new deal. to save the planet we need an extraordinary plan of green investment and not some juncker accounting fiction.
president of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank all those who took part in this debate, especially those who spoke in a laudatory manner, and i would ask mr zanni to study his files more closely. this will prevent him from quoting figures which are completely wrong.
president juncker, members of the college, i thank you again for being here, for your commitment and for defending the european ideal, and on behalf of parliament i express our respect and gratitude for the work you have done and for the dedication you have shown to europe. (applause from the centre and the right) the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. – five years ago we didn’t have dsm in the eu. instead to have dsm with more than 500 million healthy customers, we had 28 relatively small markets and cost of this fragmentation was huge – 415 billion euros in a year. to create dsm we launched 30 legislative proposals. we agreed in new telecom rules, we agreed in gdpr to protect privacy of our people. and we agreed in allowing free flow of data to support our industries. we abolished roaming surcharges and unjustified geoblocking. we agreed in allowing portability of digital content. we reached an agreement with 28 proposals out of 30 and we are now much closer to have dsm in the eu. thank you, jean claude, for your great leadership.
in writing. madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the work and achievements of the commission, and this debate is a good opportunity to assess the progress made by the european union in general over the last five years. indeed, the commission started its work at a difficult and tense time, when europe was experiencing a refugee crisis and a difficult and tense economic and political period. a lot of tough decisions had to be made to get things under control, and they were. in fact, i would like to thank the president of the commission for his active role in contributing to the building of a social europe. the adoption of the pillar of social rights was one of the most anticipated and important steps in the social field. in my area, employment and social affairs and equal opportunities policy, there is still a long way to go before we can create a truly socially sustainable and secure europe for our citizens. a europe of equal opportunities for all, of equal pay for equal work, a europe without discrimination and without hatred. i am very confident that the new commission will continue with determination the work it has started and that over the next five years we will build a socially responsible and sustainable europe.
in writing. – in 2014, the juncker commission presented itself as a ‘political’ commission, there to guide events and not to submit to them or simply function as an administrator. the irony has been that while trying to reach this goal, the juncker commission became a prisoner of the political emergencies it encountered without being able to resolve: the greek crisis; the ongoing stand-off with russia over ukraine; the populist challenge; the immigration crisis; the brexit referendum and its aftermath; the arrival of president trump and the collapse of trade and investment negotiations with the us; stalemate in eurozone reform; plus more... possibly, the commission can claim that despite these setbacks, it scored politically by keeping the eu cohesive, rendering the union economically stronger than when it assumed office. even so, the claim that the juncker fund significantly contributed to this situation appears inflated, as shown by the european court of auditors in their assessment of the fund. where the juncker commission shone was in its efforts to nail climate change at the top of the international agenda and in its strategy to push a progressive social agenda for the eu as a whole. on the latter too, though, matters have hardly progressed beyond declaratory texts and rhetoric.
in writing. i can only agree with the statement made by our group leader: with the end of jean-claude juncker as president of the commission, a great christian democrat and a convinced european is leaving the european stage. i have great respect for his commitment to the eu's core values, his commitment to the eu as a global economic power, his fight against populists on the right and the left, and his inexhaustible crisis management on brexit, the migration crisis, the fight against terrorism and unemployment in the eu.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
the next item is the debate on the report by ms monika hohlmeier and mr eider gardiazabal rubial, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the council's position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2020 (11734/2019 c9-0119/2019 2019/2028 ((bud)) (a9-0017/2019). before i open the debate, i would like to inform you that the application for spontaneous votes and blue cards can be made both by means of the standard registration and by using the new system which allows members to register spontaneous votes and blue cards electronically. i would therefore ask you to bring your voting card with you at all times. if you'd like to register a spontaneous word message, you can do so now. you do not have to wait until the end of the debate.
adopted on 13december.the commission has decided to extend the deadline for the submission of comments to the council's opinion on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1612/1999 on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men andwomen in matters of social security. the commission is not prepared to accept this. as the author of the opinion, i am pleased that the committee on budgets has largely followed the recommendations of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection for the 2020 budget, because the internal market is at the heart of the european union. we all benefit as consumers when we can rely on common standards. and it is our small and mediumsized enterprises in particular for whom the single market is the recipe for success and the elixir of life. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let us break down the bureaucratic barriers that impede our free movement of goods, capital, services and labour, and let us boldly invest in the digital future! let's make the digital single market a budget priority instead of a buzzword! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on transport and tourism. the commission is not prepared to accept this. some may have forgotten, but the eu signed the paris agreement on climate change. but the co2 emissions from transport are continuing to rise, and i can't see any real plan to stop this trend, at least not in the draft budget for 2020. we must ask ourselves: how can we find an alternative to diesel, petrol and kerosene? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we are to comply with the paris agreement without a total collapse of transport, then we need a complete restructuring of our transport system. we should be setting the course now, investing now, changing laws now. we need safe and fast cycle paths, we need better public transport, we need europe-wide night trains, we need charging stations for electric cars. unfortunately, this budget contains far too little of all this and unfortunately does not meet the challenge of transport.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we, as the european parliament, are ready to invest in our future. we are ready to give the european union a concrete future with this budget. in particular, for young adults such as vasili, a 26-year-old greek woman who, after completing her studies in athens, was at risk of becoming unemployed, but was made fit for the labour market by youth unemployment initiatives and other programmes of the european union. we are therefore pleased that we have managed, in compromise with many other groups, to allocate an additional eur 500 million to the fight against youth unemployment and to increase youth exchanges. we believe this is a very important sign. we greens are also pleased that we have managed to agree among the members of parliament to allocate eur 2.1 billion more for climate and environmental investments, because this money is also urgently needed and it helps in very concrete ways, for example in the fight for clean air. because in bulgaria alone, over two million people suffer from bad air, such as children who have breathing problems. and that is why it is important that we act and that we have a budget which meets the needs of our time. we should also live up to this responsibility in the case of sea rescue. we have twice voted in the committee on budgets by a narrow majority in favour of a european maritime rescue programme. we greens want our motion to be accepted here tomorrow. we in parliament are ready. and now it is up to the council to put an end to this perpetual blockade and these perpetual sunday speeches and also to be prepared to invest with us. because just talking about climate change, just talking about doing something about youth unemployment, that's not enough anymore. come aboard our boat and fight with us!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. with this 2020 budget line, we are beginning to prepare our continent for the future. more money for the urgently needed protection of our climate, more money to combat youth unemployment, more money for research and science, but also more money for european values and thus also for the rescue of people fleeing war and persecution across the mediterranean. if europe is to be a credible voice for human rights in the world, we need at least the sea rescue programme, for which we are laying a first financial foundation in this budget. our citizens - and i am speaking in particular to the christian-democratic group in this house - who are christians, do not want to see any more desperate people drowning in the mediterranean sea, like the children who died a few days ago off lampedusa. europe can do more! i would like to ask you to support our motion for a resolution on sea rescue, which has already won a majority in the committee on budgets on two occasions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. are we aware that the 2020 budget is almost eur 170 billion in total? this is taxpayers' money, and we must use it sparingly and economically. that is our mission, that is why we were elected. and of course it makes sense that we spend money on education, on research, on anti-abuse, but if we don't save on the very big items that we have in the budget, if we don't cut back on those, then we don't have the room to have money for the programs that make sense. so i just want to remind you and ask you to think about your responsibility as elected officials, as people who spend money for their citizens, for the taxpayers.
i have to say, madam president, i think it is rather humorous when someone who is happy to see a parliament go on a five-week sabbatical calls this house undemocratic. but that's just on the side, it's supposed to be about the household. we must also say to those who say 'it is just a matter of distributing money in some way': no, it is a matter of european added value. this is something that must be repeated to the member states. there are so many examples that have been mentioned here, from the connecting europe facility through horizon 2020, where it's not just about who spends the money, but it's about doing it together better than doing it nationally. i want to give you another example, very striking: galileo. i do not think that finland could have built such a satellite system on its own. and even after brexit, the british want to be part of it. so there we see: it makes sense. and then, unfortunately, it makes no sense if, on the other hand, after billions have already been invested, small amounts of millions are now to be cut out in small increments to destroy this added value. i would like to ask everyone to see this added value together. there are many more examples. and a second principle which we as a parliament must also take into account here is very important: we cannot speak on monday differently from what we speak on tuesday in the budget debate. for example, we had a very intensive discussion last night on anti-semitism, and it is good that we as the european union also support school textbooks in palestine, but please do not support those which contain anti-semitic acts and demands. we have to do better than that. next time we have a chance. we cannot speak differently on monday than on tuesday, and we must then, as a parliament, hold our own nose.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. what we are seeing is that europe is losing its long-term connection with other prosperous parts of the world. and once again we have a budget whose largest item is agriculture and where we are debating as a parliament whether we should spend more on supporting illegal mediterranean smuggling and climate action, whose effectiveness is at best controversial, but in reality is not. it is a question of asking ourselves what we are doing for the people of europe, and this is certainly not a debate about how we can give money to ideological pet projects, and even less are agricultural subsidies, which only prove that more europe is not a better life, but only more bureaucracy and more alienation of producers and consumers. finally, a lesson that something is fundamentally wrong here in this institution, and that we can only regain our legitimacy if we are willing to fundamentally rethink, if we are not focused on our ideologies and some leftist fancy, but are focused on common sense, on respect for the sovereignty and responsibility of local communities. the draft budget does not reflect this, but i must admit that the council is at least closer to it than this parliament. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the issue of climate change is one that europe cannot solve alone. because if we in europe stopped emitting even one gram of co2 tomorrow, it would not be relevant to global warming even under the hypothesis of man-made climate change. that is, the question is: why are we doing something that even if we do it, it won't have an impact, because the united states, because china, because india and because all the other prosperous regions of the world won't be involved? it is symbolic politics at the expense of workers, families and commuters, and we do not support this antisocial, ideological politics.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the eu needs a fully-functional and effective european asylum support office. the citizens and we, members of the european parliament, expect that all institutions follow the ethical, financial and other rules of our union, and i have to congratulate the new director of the european asylum support office (easo), nina gregori, and her team and management for their hard work. in their work, they follow the action plan and they have achieved considerable success, as my colleagues already have mentioned. at the moment, they are going through a period of significant growth as well, both in size of budget and number of staff employed. they need the support of the other institutions in order to become the agency we need: an agency which fulfils its tasks and duties and supports the member states, the authorities, third countries, and those asylum seekers who come to europe for help. if we keep in mind what kind of easo we would like to have, indeed we should not grant discharge for the year 2017. but i am looking forward to march 2020 to grant discharge for easo.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to remind you that the theme is: discharge 2017 of the easo, the support office. it is not about the ups and downs of existence, it is not about us wanting to close easo or anything of that sort. so the threat of the messages here is a little surprising to me, because it is really all about discharge, and if i understand the budgetary regulation correctly, discharge concerns the financial situation, the revenue and expenditure and so on. and that's clearly a burden for 2017. the rapporteur has already said that over 10% of the funds have been misused or not handled properly. and the fact that these funds were not properly handled gives us the right not to grant discharge, and in that sense the question is easily resolved.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu's asylum policy is a single disaster, and easo is a money-shredding machine. as the report clearly shows, we do not need an asylum agency, but a return agency. instead of wasting money on this, it would be better to use it to protect the eu's external borders effectively, to finally bring illegal migration to zero. in particular, in the light of the ongoing war in syria, effective border protection must be ensured. we must prevent the escaped terrorists from infiltrating the eu. the eu has clearly failed in the past to fight terrorists, as the numerous attacks have shown. the protection of our own citizens must finally take precedence over the protection of so-called refugees. let's do our duty at last! let's turn the faucet off and clean up!
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the council! i was very surprised as a newcomer when i first heard that the council had not been discharged for seven years, and now i wonder how this could be. this year, again, we cannot grant discharge for 2017 because there is simply no cooperation. and now i ask myself: do you think that parliament has no power to control the funds, the half a billion euros, that you receive from the eu budget? shouldn't we do that? in your opinion, are we not entitled to do so? that is the question for me, and i ask you to consider it seriously. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i would like to ask the question: why is parliament here? we have to be very careful not to let the european parliament get involved in the negotiations. i therefore ask you to consider this matter seriously.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not according to eurobarometer 2015, 21% of respondents reported having been discriminated against in the last 12 months. of this 21%, one third felt discriminated against because of their age, being over 55 or under 30. it was new to me that being under 30 could be perceived as discriminatory. i'd give anything to be discriminated against for that. 2% of respondents felt discriminated against because of their sexual orientation, 1% because of transsexuality. scientifically, values of 1 to 2% are at the limit of what can be statistically verified. so, despite all the discrimination talk, we have to say that sexual discrimination was not an issue in europe in 2015, and anyone who has ever seen christopher street day or the love parade will agree. this is a great development. this leaves three areas of discrimination: religion, ethnicity and age. discrimination against older workers in the workplace is often more a reaction by employers to excessive rules on redundancy protection. if you work here, the alleged discrimination will disappear. religion and ethnicity remain: these discriminations are also a consequence of the migration policy. it is known from berlin and many other german cities that muslim landlords do not rent to christians, homosexuals or jews, muslim taxi drivers do not hire people of color, indian and asian restaurant owners often do not hire muslims. so it 's very simple: the multicultural society of open borders is the society of discrimination. and even if you pass a thousand laws, you will not be able to remove this discrimination from everyday life.
mr president, it is unacceptable that the transversal directive has been blocked for eleven years. it calls into question the social pact and denies the value of equality between individuals. instead of improving the protection of citizens in europe, we have a system that reinforces the idea of a hierarchy of oppression. it is imperative that the council acts and unblocks this directive by sending a strong message that discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation, disability, religion or age will not be tolerated within the european union. it is more important than ever, given the intensification of discrimination and hate-based violence propagated by the far right, to introduce an anti-discrimination policy that protects us all. this is a challenge we must meet. the european union must be the spearhead in respecting diversity and human dignity, which are the leaven of our societies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's really incredible! we are talking about the horizontal discrimination directive. this means that all those who are affected by multiple discrimination must now also be protected against discrimination. are you serious? europe must be a hell of discrimination. the question arises as to why millions of people are fleeing to europe, to this hell of discrimination. but anyway, it was a rhetorical question. do you not realise that you are using the very criteria you claim should no longer matter to identify your groups of oppressed people? they categorize those who are allegedly discriminated against by their skin color, by their religion, by their gender, by their sexual orientation. it's your ideology that lives off of these features. they celebrate them and invent new ones every day. they call themselves humanitarians. to me, that's nothing more than phony humanity.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission wants greater transparency in tax planning by large companies and fair, growth-friendly corporate taxation. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the commission has presented an updated eu directive to this end. profits should be taxed where they are made - high goals, indeed. but as is so often the case in the eu, nothing is as it seems, and even less as it should be. first, the problem of tax avoidance is itself a consequence of the eu's eased internal market policy. the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a major obstacle to the free movement of workers. secondly, according to experts from the oecd and the council of europe, tax avoidance and money laundering are also a burden on ngos. george soros, through his open society foundation, saves billions in taxes and thus funds his politically motivated lobbying. with an open society of assets over 20 billion dollars, this is as damaging as corporate tax planning. so why not country-specific disclosure requirements for ngos? thirdly, the commission refers to article 50 of the treaty on the freedom of establishment as the legal basis for its draft. however, article 50 concerns only obstacles to the establishment of selfemployed persons or the creation of group branches. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat tax evasion, and this is what we are talking about here. the commission proposal would be a breach of the eu treaties and is illegal. fourth, the eurozone, together with japan, has the lowest growth and highest personal taxes in the developed world. the commission talks about growth-friendly taxation but does nothing about it. the commission's plans for country-by-country reporting are selective, anti-growth and illegal. not with us!
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not i'm sad, but not surprised, that the ceasefire has not been respected. hundreds of people have died as a result of this turkish aggression, the kurdish people have been betrayed. the european union has also bitterly abandoned these kurds in their hour of need, after the kurds fought isis for us. of course, we have heard the usual threats from president erdoğan, including the threat to send millions more asylum seekers to europe and thus destabilise the eu countries concerned. we must now be clear: no more accession talks for turkey. it is obvious that turkish behaviour is contrary to peace and the rule of law. turkey has weakened nato and weakened all of us. the turkish actions have led to the release of extremists and terrorists, and this in turn puts the whole region and consequently the european states in great danger. turkey, along with qatar, is actively involved in supporting isil, one of the most dangerous islamist groups that threatens peace, freedom and security our western way of life . and that is why the clear message to president erdoğan is that turkey is not part of the eu or europe.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not "the kids wanted to fight, i let them fight and then separated them again", said us president donald trump. this white house statement is simply disgusting and shows what kind of a child of the spirit is speaking. people died, some are on the run again. the turkish army's invasion is to be condemned without question, no country may invade another country. the erdogan government is about domestic and geopolitical motives, and the so-called safe zone is not about security, but about the reshaping of syria. but it is also a fact that all the world powers, all of them, including the eu, have watched as international law has been violated and war crimes committed for their own economic and geostrategic interests. there has not even been a real arms embargo here. the world knows that mr erdoğan cannot continue his war if the international community speaks a clear language and exerts consistent economic and political pressure on erdoğan. and that is what we are asking for: a real arms embargo, no more economic deals with the acp, recognition of the self-governing structures in rojava. we need a political, peaceful solution for the region, for syria, and not a military one - i stress: not a military one! rojava is an example of this. the kurds and the syrian democratic forces are the progressive forces. they deserve our support. and while eu leaders pursue their own geopolitical interests, the people of the eu stand for equality, democracy and peace. (the speaker concludes her speech with a few words in kurdish.)
mr president, two grey-haired, elderly men got together in moscow and decided to divide a region. two grey-haired, elderly men could only do so because we failed. because our institutions have failed. because this parliament has failed its purpose. because the council has failed its purpose, and the commission as well. where are the comprehensive arms embargo measures? where are the targeted sanctions that we are talking about? we were not able to take responsibility for this region, and others took it. but it’s not too late. we still can develop into a political actor. abolish unanimous decisions and foreign policy, invest in more diplomacy and more foreign policy ability of the european union. we have five years to do so. maybe not now, not to help those people – and we are ashamed of it. but let’s change in the upcoming five years, and if you want to prevent elderly, grey-haired man deciding about the fate of the world, let’s invest also in a feminist foreign policy, so that we have more women to decide about the future of the world. and one more thing i want to mention: there is a consensus here, as mr gahler said. there are various political powers and political forces voting for a very harsh resolution, but they are doing so for various political reasons, and i can tell you what our reason is to vote for those harsh words. we want to secure a european future for turkey, and in order to secure a european future for turkey, we must tame turkish imperialism of the government and we must tame the turkish anti-humanitarian militarism of this government, because the european future of turkey are the civilians, the artists – many people who are in prison now, and for them it is worth fighting for this future. for those who are saying that we want to prevent it, that they want to vote for this resolution to prevent a future for turkey in europe, we are saying quite clearly: we are voting for this harsh resolution in order to allow a future for those people. a future in democracy and a future in europe, against erdoğan but for europe. (applause)
madam president, this is not a unilateral military action, as the european union claims, but the invasion of syria by its strategic partner, turkey, a nato member state, with the aim of gaining control of the region. the us-turkey agreement, like the agreement with russia, on the terms of an imperialist peace, with a gun at the head, marks a new round of bargaining and competition behind the backs of the peoples. they are fuelling the uncertainty for the people in the context of the military escalation in the region. the so-called sanctions of the european union, both for the invasion of syria and for the violations in the aegean and cypriot eez, are hypocritical, at the same time that economic, commercial and other relations of strong member states of the european union are being upgraded and strengthened. the european union, the united states, nato, the imperialists in general, are not friends, as the new democracy government and syriza in greece claim. their alliances are at the expense of the people. solidarity with the kurdish population and the syrian people as a whole! stop the offensive of the turkish military forces! the developments in syria are the affair of its people.
the events in north-east syria are a matter of grave concern and a signal of what is to come in the absence of a unified, strong, effective european union foreign and security policy and capacity for action in our neighbourhood. we're very good at talking, but not at doing. the u.s. withdrawal from the region created a vacuum that we didn't fill, and russia has been able to exploit it. turkey's military operation is undermining regional security. i mean... (the president cut off the speaker) turkey's military operation undermines regional security and threatens the global coalition against daesh. any security concerns of our neighbours must be addressed through political and diplomatic means, in compliance with international law and in coordination with nato partners, and not through unilateral action. the temporary cessation of hostilities, unfortunately, did not bring a lasting end to the suffering of the people of the region. and yes, whether we really want to or not, turkey is an important neighbor. we need each other, and that is why we must maintain dialogue and cooperation on migration and security. it is in our interest that turkey remains on the european track, that it democratises, that it respects the commitments it has made, including the customs union, and that the countries on the eu-turkey border receive european solidarity to preserve and guarantee the security of the external borders of the union cyprus, greece and bulgaria. thank you, thank you!
madam president, the american withdrawal may be one of the greatest betrayals of modern times. a year ago, donald trump said of the kurdish militias: ‘they fought with us, they died with us’, ‘they are a great people’, ‘we do not forget that, i do not forget that’. the kurds unfortunately now stand as the useful idiots of the americans. the american withdrawal is not only a betrayal. it is in geopolitical terms highly irresponsible. now the vacuum may have left turkey with what it sees as a difficult decision to make, but turkey would do better to look to its own territory and give more political space to opposition parties supported by the kurds, and to journalists supporting their rights if it is to successfully address terrorist threats. we now urgently need a political solution that allows rapid return of displaced persons, but also minimises the strategic ground conceded to russia, assad and iran.
i have to say, madam president, i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but i am saying that it should be a matter for the council. her cynical speech at the expense of the battered people in syria was more than repugnant. please reflect on your own speech. the kurdish people have been betrayed. the kurds were left alone by us europeans to help fight isis, and the americans, by withdrawing, opened the way for the turkish invasion. everyone knew that turkey would invade as soon as the americans withdrew their troops. the suffering of the people of syria, of families, women and children, seems endless, is cruel and must be ended urgently. the nobel peace prize and our values commit us to action and also to a very clear position, saying very clearly: no, mr erdoğan, this invasion is not a 'source of peace', it is a violation of international law and it is murder. there is no place in our eu for warmongers, aggressors and barbaric dictators. we must make that very clear. there is no room in our european house for states which disregard human dignity, freedom of expression, freedom of religion and freedom of the press, and whose prisons are increasingly filled with political prisoners. diplomacy is always necessary no question , but sanctions at all levels, the freezing of funds and very clear statements by the eu must underpin and accompany diplomacy. and that's exactly what i'm missing in our proposal. it is important that europe speaks with a strong voice here, clearly ... (the president takes the floor from the speaker.)
i have to say, madam president, one thing we all have to be clear about is that there will be no military solution to this region. there can only be a political solution, and that can only involve the united nations, which have not been mentioned in over two hours of debate. what we are witnessing is a turkish invasion sanctioned by russia. we see the kurdish-led democratic forces, the best allies of the international community, being abandoned. we see erdogan and putin meeting and de facto sharing power in syria. the eu, if we look at it soberly, is not a big player in this region. we have missed the time, but we also do not have the powers, and the deception of the brexit party, for example, is clear: the eu is supposed to act, but at the same time it is not given powers. our strongest weight is economic sanctions, stopping the supply of arms - this must be the response of a strong eu that does not allow itself to be blackmailed by refugee agreements and that respects international law.
i have to say, madam president, we are talking today about turkey's illegal military operation in northern syria and its consequences. the situation in syria has been, and unfortunately has been for years, that in close proximity to the eu, where european interests are directly at stake the despot assad, the us and russia are in charge and the european union is on the outside, apart from the financing of humanitarian aid. the conclusion we should draw from this - and here i return to the epp's key demands - is that we must finally create the decision-making structures in the eu, for example a european security council and an eu defence council, and provide the military capabilities to ensure that the initiatives of individual member states, such as the german defence minister's initiative to establish an international protection zone, can be dealt with and evaluated at european level immediately and can also lead to joint european action. the consequence of this unacceptable turkish action should be that the eu finally becomes sovereign in security policy and not only verbally condemns terrorism, expulsion and ethnic cleansing, but also actively participates in the fight against terrorism and in the maintenance of peace. let us put aside divisions and discouragement and take a decisive step towards political union in this election period.
in writing. – due to the security situation in northeast syria the risk that more members from the terror organization isis will escape their captivity is a reality. the eu must support all eu member-states in order to ensure that the isis criminals cannot return to european soil, and ensure that these mass-murderers are kept in the region where their crimes were perpetrated, so they can face justice by local courts for their criminal acts. in the current volatile and critical time for the security of european citizens, the eu shall facilitate, support and encourage eu member-states to be able to: operate extended border controls; detain and conduct extensive background check of third country national claiming asylum or other entry – this includes to ensure a fully nationally owned process of establishing background without interference of non-governmental actors; deny rather than to allow entry into the eu of a third country national regardless of claim, if their background cannot be established; timely return all illegal migrants present in the applicable member state; revoke citizenship of persons found to have been directly or indirectly supporting isis;and bolster the national security capacity to handle the growing terrorist threat.
the commission has already done so. the climate crisis is not a natural disaster, no, it is man-made, and it is the result of misguided policies. to change that, 4.5 million people in europe were on the streets in september. thank you, fridays for future! thank you for every sign, for every friday that you take to the streets and encourage us and point us to science. because it's clear and unambiguous. there can be no more "this way!" no more pill pallet. but so far, the commission's climate change law has been nothing but empty announcements. at the same time, 1.5 billion euros are being invested in climate-damaging gas projects, and in germany, unfortunately, the climate protection package is only one: a pile of rubbish. that's not how we're going to achieve climate neutrality. it is nice that the social democrats want to debate this issue here, but it is not enough to debate it. we want to see action!
i have to say, madam president, when the climate-neurotics gathered here talk about a climate catastrophe all the time, it is always in terms of the co2 levels in our atmosphere, and again only in the last 150 years. and for good reason: because if you look at our earth history, you would see that the past co2 concentration was mostly much higher than our current concentration of 400 ppm. and worse, there's no proportional correlation between co2 and temperature. for example, let's take the green-hysterical assumption that an increase of 100 ppm will result in a temperature increase of 2 degrees celsius. this would mean that in the time of the dinosaurs, when the co2 concentration was close to 2,000 ppm, or 1,600 ppm higher than today, the temperature would have been a whopping 32 degrees celsius higher, or about 50 degrees celsius or more. i know that many figures in such a short time, that is probably overwhelming some politicians' brains. climate change is the rule, not the exception. we do well to adapt to a changing climate. the don quixote's fight against climate change is one they can only lose.
madam president, in 2009 the stockholm resilience centre first published a paper in which they introduced nine planetary boundaries. this means these are boundaries which may not be passed if earth is to remain habitable for humans. everyone is fully justified talking about the climate crisis. but there are two boundaries which are much more drastically exceeded: this is biosphere integrity – biodiversity basically – and biogeochemical flows, which means putting nitrogen, soluble nitrogen and phosphorous into the environment. for these reasons species are going extinct at an unprecedented rate and what we are doing, we are putting the base of our life at risk – the biosphere which provides us with drinkable water, with fertile soils with clean air and this must stop. so, we expect the new commission to come up with a stringent plan on how we will act. how we will act on agriculture, on land use, on oceans and this must be part of the green new deal, because otherwise we will not solve this crisis.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the seriousness of the climate situation is beyond dispute, so the attention, if you will, in this kind of parliamentary session, is now low. we must act responsibly, that is, in the light of the complexity of the challenge. sustainable development has an ecological component, as well as a competitive and social dimension. if we focus on the ecological factor alone, we will soon face a social and economic emergency that is as unacceptable as the climate emergency. so to solve the climate problem, we need a fair and competitive transition. measures which do not lead to a jump in consumer prices and do not jeopardise the security of supply and competitiveness of the member states. and on the path to climate neutrality, it is worth taking into account the good practices of member states. one example is hungary, which has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions and lowered energy prices for its citizens over the past decade, while maintaining a growing economy.
i have to say, madam president, what other word can we use than to describe the state of our climate and environment as an emergency? because temperatures are rising, more and more species are disappearing from our planet, more and more people are being forced to leave their homes because of climate change. calling an emergency is one thing. what we do now is what counts. if we are serious about this, then the reform of the common agricultural policy must ensure that our subsidies protect the environment and help farmers to do so. if we are serious about this, our trade agreements must contain binding, enforceable environmental and social standards. if we are serious about this, we need a european and international policy for the protection of species, with clear objectives and concrete implementation. if we are serious about this, then we are investing in a sustainable future with the green deal, in a just and social-ecological change. so declaring a climate emergency can only be a start. let's get on with it!
madam president, if the global temperature of the earth’s surface increases as is predicted, this has terrible consequences, and one place where the effects of global warming and climate change can be visibly seen is the arctic. the arctic is warming at almost twice the global average rate of temperature increase and the melting of the arctic ice in turn contributes to climate change. as regards the arctic, the responsibility of climate action cannot be in the hands of the arctic countries alone. pollution that appears in the arctic climate is mostly from asian, north american and european emitters, and as it happens the melting of the arctic sea ice has opened a race for the region. many governments and companies are very interested in new navigation routes as well as new fishing and natural resources in the arctic. developments concerning security, energy and the environment affect the security situation in europe and beyond. if we wish to stick to the paris agreement, immediate emission reductions are necessary. also, we must be prepared for the changes resulting in the climate change in the arctic to avoid the rise of tensions.
i have to say, madam president, unfortunately, we humans don't have a direct sense to sense the state of the planet. unfortunately, we humans have no sense to trace our actions in time. the effects of our actions are global and extend far beyond our human time horizon. but aren't we wired to react quickly when we see the need, when we feel it, when we smell it, when we understand it? so the ecological change is also a profound cultural change. we need to learn as a society - and each of us every day - to make life-sustaining choices in our everyday lives. what kind of mobility culture do we need? what kind of consumer culture do we need? what food culture? how do we define wealth? and of course, in addition to the regulatory measures that we will have to take collectively, in addition to the market economy measures and the technological levers that we will have to use, we also need a joint effort between science, politics, art and philosophy. we must formulate positive visions to show the diversity of possibilities. even in this cultural change, we as the eu must make progress to protect our climate and biodiversity.
i have to say, madam president, anyone who declares a state of emergency must be aware that this entails a clear transfer of power to the executive, which can even lead to the restriction of fundamental rights. so i think that in peacetime, we should be very careful with this. we should not, however, take this as an excuse. there's so much for us to do. we in the large cities know that in future we will have to examine all measures to see whether they contribute to cleaner air, cleaner water and cleaner soil, to greater energy efficiency and, overall, to a healthy environment. in cities - be it berlin, london or paris, or in the twin cities of berlin, jakarta, mexico city or beijing - environmental problems are accumulating due to the density of population, traffic and commerce. but cities also have a higher density of know-how and innovation for science-based and technology-open solutions to environmental problems. i therefore call on the commission to recognise in particular the starting point and potential of cities and to respond accordingly in terms of horizontal support and regulation, so that we can jointly accelerate the climate- and human-friendly transformation of our cities worldwide.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the presentation of the 2018 annual report of the court of auditors (2019/2802 ((rsp)). i would like to congratulate mr klaus-heiner lehne, president of the court of auditors. before i open the debate, i would like to inform you that the application for spontaneous votes and blue cards can be made both by means of the standard registration and by using the new system which allows members to register spontaneous votes and blue cards electronically. i would therefore ask you to bring your voting card with you at all times. if you'd like to register a spontaneous word message, you can do so now. you do not have to wait until the end of the debate.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would also like to thank everybody for their cooperation in terms of the last report. we are looking at the spending figures for the 2018 financial year. however, we need to make sure that our budget is sustainable. the payment backlog not only shows what we did in 2018, but it is also a good indication of what to expect in the future. the outstanding commitments have constantly been growing in the past years and in 2018 we reached a record high number with eur 281 billion. the projections show that it will grow even further in the coming years. the high number is not just a number in our accounting system. this bears a political significance. we need to make sure that the payment appropriations will be available to cover all amounts due in the first years of the new mff. otherwise, it will endanger the new mff programmes. the difference between member states is enormous. the risk, especially in the eastern and central member states, suggests that there might be a structural problem as well. we need to take steps to reduce the amount of the backlogs and help faster absorption, especially for the member states lagging behind, in order to secure an eu budget which is sustainable, not just in the short term but also in the medium and long term. the way to speed up the absorption of funds is simplification and you have talked about this. we have to avoid high pressure on the new mff.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. if the european court of auditors did not exist, it would have to be invented. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. but there is still much to be done. the 2018 report makes this very clear. i would like to quote a wise man, the preacher solomon. he says in ecclesiastes 10: "dead flies make the oil of the ointment-mixer stink and ferment". they are, in a sense, looking for these dead flies and fishing them out. i wish you continued success in this task, good luck. do not have a bite inhibitor, but bite when you feel that you are encountering problems. your work is urgently needed.
in view of the time we have, we'll let it go at a blue card.
madam president, colleagues, i have to say that i am very pleased with the results of the vote. the european court of auditors, the guardian of the proper and efficient management of the european union, presents each year to parliament's plenary session its annual report for the financial year ended, which marks the beginning of the discharge procedure. this is the 11th time i've been involved in a final countdown. i was responsible for a different report every year. in my experience, the european court of auditors has done an outstanding job. the cooperation with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament is excellent. the regularity of the financial management of the european union is improving. the 2018 financial year is the third year in which the court of auditors has delivered a limited opinion on the expenditure for the financial year, instead of a negative opinion. the estimated error rate of their expenditure was 2,6% and the level of payment requests from member states for the european structural and investment funds increased significantly in 2018. madam president, i have to ask you to leave. i'm sorry about that. i'm gonna deviate from the agenda by a thought. as the head of the hungarian delegation to the european people's party, i can speak on october 23rd. october 23 is the anniversary of the hungarian revolution and war of independence of 1956. it is a celebration of the elemental sense of justice and the desire for freedom of the hungarian people, the hungarian nation. we bow to heroes too. and we are the heirs of this sense of justice, this desire for freedom. thank you for your attention.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to begin by saying to my british colleagues that this polemic will also cause discord in the united kingdom. i thank the court and the commission for the work they have done on budgetary control. 2.6 percent sounds good. some things have improved, but the budgetary area, where europe shows its face in the regions - structural policy - has deteriorated massively. 5% after 3% last year is a very bad sign for the taxpayer. i really have to wonder whether the commission, and the court, are sufficiently responsive to our demands for transparency. for years we have been asking the countries to name, to name, to publish, where it is going wrong. for years we have been demanding country reports from the court which clearly show the shortcomings of the black sheep. yeah, there's a naming and shaming in the approaches. yes, a lot of it is linked to bureaucracy in the countries, and yes, we too have a responsibility if we allow funds to be called up much later. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the commission and the court are evading the responsibility of acting themselves. they hide behind samples and interpretable statistics. we all hide behind shared management and avoid taking responsibility ourselves. we could all do something to improve things here. you can blame us if you have to provide more transparency in the member states and also in the funding of ngos. we will insist on this for the next few years.
madam president, mr president of the court of auditors, i want to start by appreciating the report you have presented, the 2018 report, as comprehensive and reflecting the complex and important work, because those thousands of days of auditing that you and your team have done on the spot, whether in the member states, third countries or the european institutions, have borne fruit and we have this involution of corrections. what i want to say to you, however, is that you, as the court of auditors, should implement a strategy and certainly, advise a strategy that is more about prevention because i know, sure it is perhaps justified somehow for an institution to find a mistake, but i think it is better for everyone to prevent. i think that's the philosophy. secondly, i want to appreciate that you've made the 41 audit reports from the agencies much more explicit and much more understandable and then you have a record of the documents published -- which is very good -- and i congratulate you on that. as the discharge rapporteur for parliament i shall be using your reports.
madam president, i want to thank you for the report which i think gives a true picture and is useful information for our work. anyway, what's at stake in this debate is the question of error, and in my opinion, it's a vessel associated with that simplification. it's going down sometimes, going up sometimes. i saw a farmer, when he showed me the requirements that go into the administration of a greenhouse, it's a set of documents that a normal farmer has to fill out. i think we should really focus on simplifying. i see that both the unpaid payments are increasing, as well as the error in the regional fund, that's definitely not good news. i think what the court should be focusing on is clearly an audit of the performance of the policies and of course the money used. i think that's what we're missing, and we should focus more on these audits, because they're definitely going to move us forward.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. simplification - yes, that is true: we must do everything possible to ensure that, for a grant programme, a budget programme, the rules for applying for funds, for implementing projects and then for documenting and settling them are as simple as possible, because the effort is an effort within the european administration, with the member states and their authorities, with the citizens, with universities, with companies, with ngos. on the other hand, it is clear that some of the requirements for application forms, bureaucracy, billing have to do with the fact that corruption, fraud, dishonesty and mistakes can be avoided in part. if you make it simple, it's easier to abuse. a second request: we can show that in recent years and decades, in the council, but also in parliament, complexity has arisen - more regulations, more expectations of documentation. so now, with the post-2020 budgetary framework, we have a chance to put simplification in the foreground, as many speakers have asked for, and everyone in the council and parliament will back off when it comes to more complex derogations, documentation rules and more. i have seen budgetary control and auditing at regional, local and national levels in my political years. i can assure you: the quality of documentation and accounting, the avoidance of errors, the recovery of funds is at least as good at european level as at all levels in the member state i come from and where i know quite well at the municipal, county council, state government and national level. we have no reason to say that our work is worse than that of others. making mistakes is human. the key is not to make a mistake twice, to detect and correct a mistake and to learn from mistakes and advise others so that the mistake made here is not found permanently or repeated. we must then see, and the commission is trying to see, that the error rate - the subject of 2.6%, compared with 2.4%, a year ago - remains at this low level or even falls a little further, but an increase of 0.2% is more a coincidence than a trend that will start there. i see a series of messages, but i can't see the speakers. i want to say frankly, and this may be my last opportunity, that i have always had a painful experience, and i have never known it from any other parliament, of criticism being directed at the commission or the court of auditors, of questions being asked, and those who ask the questions saying: whoo! i don't know where, maybe beer, wine or coffee? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i am not saying this to the polemic group in the back right, but i am saying it to my colleague mr lega: very critical, understandable and now no longer there. i would have liked to have told him myself, so i won't be the one to give the answer. mr pieper, we can look into the subject of full transparency and then also the presentation of the main points of error. we are fully complying with the rules of the financial regulation adopted by you. no more, no less than that. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject. we're not as transparent about mistakes as we are about fraud, corruption and disloyalty. we also challenge countries, companies or citizens when it comes to criminal law issues.
president of the european court of auditors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i should like to thank mrs hohlmeier for being the new chairwoman of the committee on budgetary control. we look forward to working with you and your committee in the new term. i think you've touched on the central point; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is, in fact, the basis of the whole problem. and now i say something to you, but also to myself, because i have been on the other side for 22 years: of course, this is often the fault of the legislator. the legislator tends to make ever more detailed regulations for a simple reason: he does not trust the administration. so he's trying to settle individual cases, settle more and more details. this applies to all parts of the legislation, and the consequence is that the regulations end up being so complicated that mistakes happen. perhaps this is the realization that, after a few years on the other side of the problem and seeing how the administrative problems look like, it is sometimes better to have more confidence in those in the administration, whether on the european side or at the member state level, that with simpler and clearer rules, which may be interpretable here or there, they will still find appropriate decisions. i think that's the key point, where you should also try to improve the fundamentals, then the error rate will also be lower. mrs penkova, thank you very much for your comments. they raised the issue of pilot initiatives for the transition to the certification examination. that is a very important point. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. and we get new insights into how well they work, how much they are lacking, and then we can also make concrete proposals in dialogue with the commission and the other bodies audited on how to improve this and how to create data that we can use afterwards, that we can use directly for our audit. the new approach is already showing considerable success. mr chastel made the point that the problems we are addressing here are basically the same every year. that's exactly right. the issue of complex bureaucratic regulation has already been raised. perhaps a further comment on the problem raised by mrs grapini and mr chastel in relation to the focus not only on compliance, i.e. the legality and accuracy of the budgetary execution, but also on the question of performance, efficiency and economy: in recent years, the court has more than doubled the number of reports it produces on performance, i.e. the assessment of economic viability and efficiency. we have therefore moved the focus of our activities in this direction and we intend to do so more and more, because we believe that citizens and you as a stakeholder are often more interested in whether the bridge or the terminal or the port built with european funds is actually used, whether it is economically efficient, than in whether it has been awarded to the wrong contractor in a tendering procedure because of some technical error. this is important, of course, but the question of whether someone is actually using this infrastructure is at least as important and, in my view, even more important in the end. mrs von cramon-taubadel and mrs wolters addressed the issues of sustainability. you will have seen this already - and you will see it even more so when we adopt our new strategy, which will apply to the court from 2021 onwards: we will also be taking a keen interest in the problem of the sustainable development goals, the un's sdgs. this will play an increasingly important role in our audit work. you'll hear more from us here about sustainability. mr. kuhs, thank you very much for your kind words. i can assure you, the court has no bite inhibitor. we will continue - you will see this when you read the report - to give concrete examples of where things have gone wrong, because criticism is the prerequisite for things to get better. this is simply the central experience that has been made over decades and that must be continued. we will. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we use a statistical method. we are obliged by the treaty to give a declaration of assurance on the implementation of the entire budget. no one is able to examine in detail the millions of transactions which the european union makes in the most varied sectors of its budget. so we do what is commonplace by international standards, what other auditing institutions around the world, in member states or international organizations do: we take a relevant statistical set of operations that are selected at random, and then we test those operations, and based on the results that we find in doing so, the errors that we find in doing so, we calculate an estimated error rate, and we do it using a very simple system: if you have a population of just under 1,000, in our case, there were about 750 transactions that you tested, then you can say with a 95% probability that under a certain curve in the middle, +0.8 percent is the actual error rate. these are the international standards we are guided by. of course, we can be more specific, and we can also provide much, much more detail on individual sub-aspects of the budget than on the whole budget in theory. but if we do that, we need a lot more resources, a lot more resources! at present we are devoting almost half our resources to these transaction reviews in the context of the annual report. and if we want to be more precise, that means that -- yes, this is mathematics, statistical mathematics -- we need four times as many resources to be twice as accurate. i'll put it very simply: at the moment the farm has almost 1,000 employees. if you give us 4,000 staff - you as the budgetary authority - we will be able to check twice as closely and provide you with twice as much data and accurate information. this is the crucial question for the budgetary legislator. but within the resources that we have today, we are simply limited, and we can only do what we have done. to use resources wisely, we naturally weigh the risks. that means we examine it more logically and make concrete statements where we know: the risks are higher. where the risks over decades of auditing are low, such as in the administrative or management field, where we always have very low error rates, we naturally do less accordingly. this means that we try to use our resources economically, so that we can achieve the best possible result for you. this is the answer to mrs garcía muñoz's question about the statistical method. mr boyer raised the question of the use of resources and the quantity. we have made specific comments on the various mff proposals. you can read all of them, and you can read our views on the mff. mr novakov spoke on the subject of performance. i don't want to say anything more about that. like i said, we've shifted our focus. mr jurzyca cited the oecd decision or publication. in fact, we believe that we have a very, very high standard of budget management and implementation in the european union today. we have a high standard. there are still areas where improvements need to be made. we have said that, there is no question about it, you will find it all in the report. but if you look at this in international comparisons -- we know, for example, what the figures are at the government accountability office in the united states -- we're doing well, we're doing really well overall. but you also have to know where we're coming from. when the commission of jacques santer had to resign in 1999, the court of auditors also produced annual reports, and in those annual reports it gave negative opinions on the implementation of the budget. we did not publish the data for individual budgetary sectors in the 1990s, and some of them were in the double-digit percentage range. and if you compare the situation back then, when there were no functioning internal audit systems with the efficiency that we have today, with the situation today, we have made significant progress. and i can say this: thanks also to your house, because of course the european parliament after 1999 has made sure that these things have changed and improved, through a series of important changes to the budgetary regulation and through constant pressure, which has also come from the committee on budgetary control. so i think there's been some progress. and then perhaps a note to mr. pieper. this is basically the same thing that i said before, but in a different form: of course, we could theoretically provide data on countries. but then i need other resources. if i do 750 or 800 transactions in the context of the annual report on the budget as a whole, then for some countries i may only have 16 transactions to examine. that's completely irrelevant statistically. i mean, it's like an opinion poll: if you ask 1,000 people, you get a reasonable result based on the likely outcome of party preferences -- that's clear. but if you only ask 16 people, you can throw away the result. and that's exactly how it is here. what we did in response to the parliament's request was that every seven years - this is the first time we have done this since 2014 - we published all the data we had collected in previous years, but with a clear disclaimer that these figures are statistically irrelevant and that they have no relevant value in terms of any statement or assessment of the situation in the member states. that is where we are, and that is not going to change. i would like to say that the commission has not been able to give us the information we need to make a decision on the future of the community. with the resources we have, we can't do that. we can ask for this as often as we like, but we simply cannot do it unless our resources are changed. but the question remains: does it make economic sense to allocate more resources to all these different sectors of the budget? that is a decision which the legislator must then make. that means the answer to that question is up to you, not us.
in writing. i have read with interest the 2018 annual report of the court of auditors, and in particular the section on cohesion policy. the court found the level of errors in the 'consistency' section to be significant, which is both worrying and sobering. the most frequent errors were related to ineligible costs and to non-compliance with public procurement rules. the court rightly observes that the simplification of the rules would help to prevent these irregularities and that errors could be avoided if the authorities of the member states laid down less complex national eligibility conditions. i fully agree with the court's opinion on this point and believe that every effort should be made to implement this recommendation. in addition, the court notes that the payment appropriations for 2021 of eur 63,7 billion may prove insufficient in view of the forecasted repayment obligations. we must therefore do everything possible to ensure that the necessary resources are available to cover all commitments.
author. – madam president, i am humbled and honoured to present this draft motion for a resolution on such a sensitive issue: search and rescue in the mediterranean. i mean it. search and rescue of human lives in the mediterranean against the unbearable death toll in the mediterranean that we have mourned so many times throughout the debates of this plenary session of the european parliament in strasbourg. i’ll make some remarks in english, according to the documents that have been widely circulated throughout the debate within the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) and then i’ll move into spanish to make some final statements. presenting the case is just recalling the importance of the historic record of the resolutions of this european parliament, quite a number of them. every time there has been a tragedy in the mediterranean – 1000 dead human lives in the mediterranean only this year – we have mourned them on a regular basis, almost ritually. it is not the case that we ritually deplore this tragedy. it is about time that we bring about change and call on the commission and the council for real action on the matter. this is the aim of this concise resolution that has tried its best to encompass all of the component elements of the rationale behind the different political groups in this house which are willing to spread the message – to reach out to the european citizens – that we actually do care about the necessity to stop this death toll and this tragedy. so many lives are lost because they don’t have a regular pathway to make it to europe. that is why they expose themselves to trafficking in human beings and the most unbearable violations of human rights on the other side of the mediterranean coast, namely, libya. so we not only make the case for the necessity of enhancing legal pathways, namely humanitarian corridors, but also to call libya by its name: no safe place, no safe port for disembarkation. we care about enhancing the capacity to respond of the actual agency, which is frontex in cooperation with some member states and also in cooperation with the libyan coastguard, but we know that people trying to flee from libya are subject to the libyan authorities, which deem it to be a criminal offence against the libyan legal order to try to flee from libyan territory irregularly when they are not given the chance to make it regularly. that means, in practical terms, that those who are sent back to libya are subject to the most inhumane violations of their most basic rights. we should not turn a blind eye to that situation. there is also a very important legal point that has been present on a regular basis in the ongoing discussions and that is the need to stop the criminalisation of ngos trying to save lives in the mediterranean and trying to cooperate in the operation of saving lives. of course we pay respect to the efforts that have been deployed by public authorities, namely, italy and spain. they have invested massive public resources, as have the rest of the southern bordering countries of the european union: malta and greece. they spend their own resources to save lives in the mediterranean, but they have to do it under a european framework, which makes sense at a european level and which is consistent with european law. by european law i also mean international humanitarian law, which is at stake because international humanitarian principles are part of european law, according to the lisbon treaty, which entered into force in 2009, 10 years ago now, along with the charter of fundamental rights, which enshrines in article 18 the right to seek asylum. it is 20 years since tampere, which launched the call for a european space of liberty, justice and security which makes sure that the response towards asylum seekers is a european response, consistent with european values and europe’s foundations, and this means fairly shared responsibility towards the issue, as in the mandate of article 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. all these component elements are in place. what we call on the commission to do is to do its best with the council in this new mandate for a fresh start to unblock the asylum package as a whole, to make sure that the facilitation directive is reviewed, to stop the criminalisation of ngos, to open ports for safe disembarkation for those vessels which have saved lives in the sea, according to international humanitarian law, because the convention on the law of the sea, which was codified in jamaica in 1982, and the conventions on rescue and safety in the seas adopted in the 70s in the last century are still binding on all member states, as they are binding for the european union itself. so there has to be a european framework for response which really does make sense. finalmente, quiero simplemente señalar la necesidad de que el parlamento europeo, en la votación que se celebrará mañana jueves, muestre la misma voluntad de marcar su mensaje propio ante el consejo y la comisión que mostró en resoluciones anteriores, notablemente en la resolución que adoptó el concepto de «holistic approach», una visión comprensiva ante la migración y el asilo que lleva la firma de sus ponentes en aquel momento: la señora metsola, del partido popular, y la señora kyenge, del grupo socialista. en aquella resolución importante se lanzó un mensaje humanitario y de compromiso de cambio. queda todavía pendiente, como quedó pendiente el mandato que adoptó este parlamento en la legislatura anterior de acabar con la criminalización de las ong, modificando la «facilitation directive». este es el mensaje que quería compartir y agradeceré el voto de todos los grupos parlamentarios que estén dispuestos a renovar ese mensaje ante la comisión y el consejo en su nuevo mandato.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, let me start by saying that the migratory situation in the mediterranean remains of concern. however, we should also note that it has improved significantly over the past years. according to frontex, in 2018 around 137 000 irregular migrants crossed the mediterranean sea on one of the three main routes. this year so far, we have had 105 000 arrivals, which is 20% down from last year. equally important is that, although any death is one too many, the number of deaths at sea in 2019 has dropped by 44% since 2018, a figure which can be attributed to the decrease in departures and increased search and rescue activities and capabilities of the libyan coast guard. by the beginning of october this year, 688 people were known to have lost their lives while attempting to cross the sea via this route. this is obviously a tragedy, even if there is some progress. the united nations refugee agency estimates that in 2018 the libyan coast guard rescued or intercepted nearly 15 000 migrants at sea. even though the security situation in libya has worsened in 2019, the coast guard has continued operating, rescuing 7 100 people at sea. these numbers reflect the important contribution of the eu to act and reduce fatalities at sea. in libya in particular, assistance has been of paramount importance owing to the lack of resources of the libyan state to provide for migrants. eur 91.3 million were granted to support the libyan coast guard and to support the development of libya’s own maritime rescue coordination centre. operation sophia has provided training for a total of 355 coastguard personnel so far, and the european asylum support office has provided training on access to the asylum procedure. despite three eu joint operations in the mediterranean sea having saved more than 478 100 lives since the beginning of operations, and assistance to improve migrant conditions on land in north african countries, there is no denying that the overall situation regarding search and rescue operations is unsatisfactory. there is a lack of responsibility-sharing under the international law of the sea and we need a greater predictability of search and rescue operations. we need to strengthen cooperation and coordination on search and rescue with our north african partners. this is not an eu responsibility alone. international maritime law applies to all states, and coastal states have specific responsibilities. in order to enable our partners to carry out these responsibilities, we offer additional support for the north african states – including morocco, tunisia, egypt and algeria – in migration management, including carrying out search and rescue activities and disembarkation under international law. as you know, italy’s migration and asylum policy has recently changed, with italy now again permitting ngo vessels to dock in its ports. italy also intends to revise its policies regarding the seizure of ngo boats and on fines for ships bringing migrants to italy without permission. to address the ad hoc handling of the arrival of migrants via the mediterranean, four member states have been working since this summer on a common solution. on 23 september, a joint declaration setting out a mechanism which could replace the current approach with a more coordinated and efficient one was agreed by france, germany, italy and malta. since then, a few other member states have agreed to participate and others are invited to join. we need to see how this new approach works in practice. i am convinced that if the mechanism proves smooth and efficient this will be the best incentive for others to join. those member states which previously took part in voluntary relocations from italy and malta have started to look at the common practice which was already developed with the help of the commission and the agencies, and are now discussing standard operating procedures. however, even if such a mechanism worked efficiently, it cannot itself be our ultimate aim. we need to find a long-term solution to these situations, but also to the whole of the common european asylum system. in line with the invitation from the european council in the new strategic agenda, we need a sustainable solution based on solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility. such a system has to work well, both in normal situations and in times of crisis. it needs to guarantee protection to the people in need, prevent secondary movements and be more effective in returning those who do not have the right to stay in the eu. during our presidency term, we have tried to promote strategic and forward-looking discussions on the most pressing challenges. we are, together with the member states, trying to look at the key issues at stake from a broader perspective and in a comprehensive way. we believe this could help us rebuild a climate of trust in the spirit of cooperation between member states and, at the same time, feed into the new commission’s programme. that being said, the continuation of the work on the legislative proposals will depend on the way the new commission will reassess and reconsider the texts that are on the table. regarding the issue of criminalisation of organisations providing humanitarian assistance, the role of ngos in search and rescue operations cannot be overlooked. as the chair of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) stated in his question, and as the european parliament reminds us in its resolution of july 2018, we need to recognise their role in saving lives at sea. the eu action plan against migrant smuggling stresses the need to ensure that appropriate criminal sanctions are in place, while avoiding the risk of criminalisation of those who provide humanitarian assistance to migrants in distress. i understand the new commission will take a close look at the facilitation framework and possibly come up with the requested guidelines for member states to prevent humanitarian assistance from being criminalised. in addition, we need to further consolidate our efforts to tackle smuggling networks in a comprehensive way. this remains of key importance.
member of the commission. – madam president, thanks to the progress achieved over the past four years to implement a comprehensive migration policy. i think there are significant developments which we can really comment on in a very positive way together. the migration situation across all roads has returned to pre-crisis levels, with arrivals since september 2019 around 90% lower than in september 2015. however, the situation is volatile and we must remain fully mobilised to anticipate any upcoming challenges. while the number of lives lost in the mediterranean has been falling, it’s still too high. each life lost represents an individual tragedy that’s a stark reminder that we need to do more. i am therefore glad to have the opportunity to discuss today the important issue of search and rescue in the mediterranean. saving lives has always been a priority of the commission. since 2015, four eu operations have helped to rescue nearly 730 000 people at sea. of these four operations, three – themis, poseidon and indalo – coordinated by the european border and coast guard, continue to be fully operational. as regards the fourth operation, sophia, member states agreed to its continuation only on the condition that the development of its naval assets be temporarily suspended, a solution which is far from optimal and not sustainable. our commitment to save lives doesn’t start when people are on the boats and at our borders. our comprehensive strategy to prevent irregular migration flows also includes measures to assist migrants in third countries before they embark on a dangerous journey and to prevent the activities of smugglers. when talking about search and rescue, one should not forget that this remains a merely national competence which our member states exercise on the basis of the international law of the sea. the eu as such has no power to coordinate search and rescue activities, and for the same reason we also have no right or duty to indicate the ports of disembarkations. these talks lie within the remit of the national coordination authorities that are bound under international law by the duty to render assistance to persons or vessels in distress at sea. this brings me to your question on the forms of facilitation which should not be criminalised. let me reiterate one more time – no form of genuine assistance to migrants, be it those in distress at sea or those in a state of necessity on eu territory, should be criminalised under european union law. but those involved in search and rescue operations must comply with relevant international rules. eu legislation on the facilitation of unauthorised entry, transit and residence does not require member states to criminalise genuine assistance to migrants. on the contrary, it provides for the possibility to exempt this type of contact from criminalisation under national law. that being said, the commission’s evaluation of the eu’s legal framework, carried out in 2017, has acknowledged that there is a lack of clarity in the implementation of the humanitarian exemption clause in the member states. as a result of this, the evaluation has recognised the need for member states to have a dialogue with ngos to facilitate cooperation, clarify context and address the concerns related to criminalisation. also, the commission has started to engage with civil society to gather more evidence and foster dialogue on the implementation of the existing rules. the last meeting between civil society and commissioner services on this matter took place on 1 october this year. the results of the engagement and dialogue with civil society will feed into the reflection of the next commission. despite all these limitations, the commission is working tirelessly to find a solution to the distribution of people rescued at sea, in accordance with the principle of solidarity and the fair sharing of responsibility. at the request of member states, the commission has played an active role in the relocation process following 15 disembarkation incidents. on these 15 occasions over 1 100 disembarked people were transferred to other member states and to norway. to date, around 750 people, of which the vast majority disembarked during the last two months, remain to be transferred, but pledges have already been given by member states that they will do so. 15 member states, namely belgium, finland, france, germany, ireland, italy, lithuania, luxembourg, malta, the netherlands, portugal, romania, slovenia, bulgaria and spain, as well as norway, have participated in these exercises. i would like to underline that in each case this has been preceded by an active coordination role of the commission at the highest level, with member states willing to demonstrate solidarity through relocation. it is thanks to these efforts that we have managed to overcome difficulties encountered in deciding where a particular vessel should be disembarked. the commission has strongly encouraged member states to agree on temporary arrangements following disembarkation. therefore, we have welcomed the progress achieved at the end of september in malta concerning a temporary solidarity mechanism between germany, france, italy and malta. the malta joint declaration was submitted for the consideration of all eu ministers at the recent justice and home affairs council and further discussions will continue at both the political and technical levels. to this end, a first technical meeting between those member states taking part in relocation to discuss operational issues took place on 11 october, with the participation of certain member states and norway, as well as eu agencies. this is, for the beginning, i would say, a good sign. work will continue on this basis. at the same time all these arrangements can only be an intermediary step towards a structural reform of the asylum and migration system. that is why work on the reform of the common european asylum system and of the return directive, but also on the implementation of all legislation adopted to strengthen the protection of our external borders, coupled with strong partnership with key third countries on each migratory route, needs to be pushed forward.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. rescuing people in distress at sea is our legal and humanitarian obligation. there is no doubt about that. that is why we have participated in the negotiations on the resolution to the best of our knowledge and belief. but what we do not want to do is to create a model that plays into the hands of smugglers and traffickers, that supports this cynical business model instead of fighting it. we must be clear about one thing: the causes of displacement do not originate at sea but on land. what we need, therefore, is a procedure for sea rescue based on international and eu law, to which all actors will adhere. we need serious and intensified discussions with the countries of origin and transit, both on the prospects for the people there to stay and on the common fight against organised crime. we need a clear distinction in asylum and migration policy between refugees and economic migration. we need humanitarian corridors to safe third countries for people fleeing war and violence. these countries deserve our support. the resolution does not address all this to the extent that we would have liked. but all of this is needed to achieve our ultimate goal: to prevent people from taking these dangerous and, in the worst case, deadly escape routes. it's the only way we can save more lives.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. albert schweitzer once said, "humanity is not sacrificing a human being to a cause". i regret to say that i believe we are sacrificing people to a cause if we do not finally stop the mass extinction in the mediterranean. it is up to us, with the resolution, but also to the new european commission, to show that we can do more than just keep saying that no one should die on the run. yes, of course no one should die and of course no one should have to flee on boats that are unseaworthy. but unfortunately, we live in a reality where every year thousands of people die on these boats at our external borders, people who were also once the most important people in another person's life. we live in a union which is not sending a single lifeboat into the deadliest sea rescue area in the world. we live in a union that has been banned by the supreme court from taking people back to libya, and what have we done? we're now paying libyan militias to do exactly what we were told not to do. that is not european, that is actually shameful! we need a european sea rescue mission and an end to the criminalisation of humanitarian aid. we expect frontex aircraft to inform all ships in the area in case of rescue at sea in order to save people, and we also expect that we do not help to return people to the civil war they have just fled. let me finish in english for a moment. i think we can discuss details and we can tighten debate, but in the end i think we should all agree that our european way is to protect lives.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. what is happening in the mediterranean is and remains a humanitarian catastrophe. rescue at sea is a legal duty, but in my view it is also a human duty. we europeans have a responsibility not to watch the mediterranean die, but to act. i am therefore pleased that in the vote on the budget this afternoon there was a majority in favour of setting up our own resources for the rescue of the mediterranean. this is a big step forward. it is also a good step that we are making progress in the distribution of rescued persons, but four countries are obviously not enough, and i call on all the countries of the european union to take part in the reception of people rescued from the sea, as long as we do not have our own distribution mechanism at this point. of course, it's best if people don't get on the boats at all. that is why we must help unhcr to improve the situation in the camps. we must therefore create legal pathways to enable migration into the labour market, and we must create more resettlement for the weakest of the weak, and european states have a responsibility here to help these people. i expect the commission to give priority to this and to put forward proposals which are actually capable of being adopted by a majority.
i have to say, madam president, the small number of members in the chamber shows the real importance of the subject of search and rescue operations in the mediterranean. and for once, the members of parliament are right, because far more people die in northern syria every day than in the mediterranean, and they die at the hands of a man who for decades has been courted and treated as a partner by the eu and especially by the left-wing parties, even as it has long been clear that turkey is turning into an islamist despotism. the wave of illegal migrants from africa is now likely to be followed by a wave of refugees from syria and the kurdish areas. these people will come overland. but instead of focusing on how to protect national borders and how to stop erdoğan in particular, you continue to talk about self-inflicted maritime disaster, carola rackete and ngos that do the criminal business of smugglers under the guise of maritime rescue. the real problems are no longer in the mediterranean. the european union must therefore stop the search and rescue operations, stop the illegal ngos and their criminal activities, and finally stop the expulsion and extermination of the kurds!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the economies of the eu member states are currently facing numerous challenges. in addition, there are uncertainties about brexit. so why should we seriously consider, at this particular time, including albania and north macedonia, two of the poorest economies in europe? in both countries unemployment is high and wages are low. both suffer from fragile institutions, deficiencies in the rule of law and cumbersome regulatory procedures. the latest gallup global survey found that 60% of the adult population in albania want to leave the country, at a time when citizens of the current eu member states have legitimate concerns about further immigration with all its problems. however, i would like to commend the efforts of north macedonia in holding the referendum on changing the name of the country. but these constant efforts to expand the borders of the european union are not always good. let us put these accession talks on hold and instead examine what pragmatic help we can provide - for example through the structural funds, the eu cohesion fund - and let us return to a more coordinated policy to support these countries in the long term and to prevent the influence of third countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. what we saw at the last summit is indeed a historic mistake. the fact that the door to the eu is still closed to albania and north macedonia is an affront not only to the governments of these countries but also to the younger generation. it's a fatal signal for this entire region. in the past, generations in the balkans have often grown up without prospects or real progress. this has led many people, often the brightest minds, to leave their countries. with the prospect of accession, everyone had been betting that the next generation of young people would have a real, honest chance in their countries. but with this decision not to open up the accession process despite the criteria already being met, these opportunities for economic transformation and domestic reform are further put on hold. others will not wait long to fill the gaps left by the eu in the western balkans. russia, turkey, china, qatar and saudi arabia in particular are making a very intensive effort to achieve political cooperation in the region. that can't be in our best interest.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is the right of the people of iraq to take to the streets and protest. yet, more than a hundred of them were shot dead, more than four thousand were injured, journalists were prevented from filming the protests, the internet was blocked. the reports from human rights organizations are very clear: it was also iraqi security forces who fired on the unarmed demonstrators. the iraqi government has announced an investigation into the incidents but has not provided any answers. instead, more and more activists are being threatened or disappearing into custody, and new protests are planned for this friday. what concerns me as a member of this parliament is that for two years we have had an eu advisory mission in the iraqi ministry of the interior. it is responsible for security sector reform. last year, we increased the mission from 50 to 95 people. this mission is advising precisely those who are largely responsible for the excessive and deadly violence of the past few weeks. so my question to you, mrs tuppurainen, is this: what consequences will the eu mission in iraq draw from this disaster? how can an impartial investigation of the incidents be guaranteed? and above all, how do you intend to ensure that there will be no further human rights violations by the eu-advised ministry and its authorities next friday? it is time we finally discussed our missions abroad in plenary.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not in early october, 28-year-old brian wasswa was brutally murdered in uganda because he was gay. he was stabbed ten times in the head with sharp knives. the murder of brian wasswa came as the ugandan government announced it would introduce the death penalty for homosexuals. for years, gays in uganda have had to fear for their lives. newspapers publish pictures and addresses of lgbti people, a brutal manhunt is underway. the persecution of lgbti people must end. the debate on the death penalty is damaging, and we should condemn it. all people should have the right to love and to live in freedom. the european union is giving 578 million euros in development aid to uganda, and that is why we have a responsibility. in 70 countries around the world, homosexuality is criminalized, and in nine countries, it is punishable by death. let's all do everything we can to make this stop. let's give freedom to all lgbti people worldwide!
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in september, thousands of people took to the streets in egypt. and this was new: they took to the streets all over the country, they fought against corruption, against the money that is being lent to the country and the citizens to build roads, schools, hospitals, disappearing and that it is moving much too slowly. the regime violently suppressed the protest, arresting 4,300 people, many of them children. hundreds disappeared, human rights activists are still targeted, social media and messaging services are monitored. the message is clear: al-sisi does not tolerate criticism of his rule, and unfortunately it is coming. human rights defenders today only dare to speak about the violence in exile. what is the eu doing? she won't say anything. it's funneling budgetary aid to the government, and member states continue to export surveillance technology and weapons. i was responsible for a motion for a resolution for the first time this week and i can tell you that the negotiations on this resolution were not easy because we all agreed on really important consequences and went ahead with them. and in the end, all the people in charge came together, and i'm very proud of that. we are saying this very clearly: yes, egypt is a partner of the european union, but we no longer want to be accomplices of this regime. that means no more business as usual with al-sisi and freedom for the protesters. and specifically, no more spy technology in the hands of this regime. we cannot allow this to be a source of income for europe. this means no more blank checks for eu funds to the regime, but a review of budgetary support and strengthening of civil society. and and this goes to the commission finally clear edge in diplomatic negotiations and statements! ladies and gentlemen, i have my suitcase outside and i am about to fly to egypt and i say to you: i would really like to take this resolution with me because i know that it gives hope to many people and yes, some people even have headaches. those who trample on the rights of their citizens must expect consequences. let us send this signal to egypt today in a clear and unambiguous way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. 2011 was a historic turning point in the history of egypt. millions of egyptians have taken to the streets in the hope of greater freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and also a better economic situation. eight years later, the reality in egypt is very different: the situation of freedom of the press and freedom of expression and human rights has deteriorated, and the severity of the repression under president al-sisi is even more severe than under the previous ruler, husni mubarak. amnesty international reports that torture and other ill-treatment by the authorities continues to be systematic in egyptian prisons. this is unacceptable! in response to the recent anti-government demonstrations, the regime has recently arbitrarily arrested 4 300 people, of whom 3 000 are still in pre-trial detention. many report torture. human rights activists are targeted by the police, some simply disappear, and fundamental rights are trampled underfoot. we can't just sit back and watch. that is why it is time that we restrict financial aid to egypt to direct aid to the population. that's our job now. we must act now!
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. indonesia was no longer seen by many as a model country of liberal islam: we also condemn the interference with democratic freedom of expression and the new criminal offences such as insulting the president more than the apparent departure from western libertineage. the indonesian penal code seems to be on hold for now, but it raises some interesting questions. people around the world do not share western free movement, the relegation of the religious to the purely private, or the inflationary expansion of charters of fundamental rights beyond individual protection from an overpowered state. that's her right. but thanks to mrs merkel, the world is coming to europe without abandoning its traditional values. the eu imports conflicts of values. imported values then collide with domestic culture, political over-correctness and uninhibited secularization parallel societies flourish. the philosopher isaiah berlin calls such conflicts "pluralism of values" and sees no compromise. the realist hegel sees solutions only in the right of the stronger. both warn against social experimentation. unlike the green cohn-bendit. he writes: "when really foreign cultures meet, the conflict is permanent. the multicultural society is hard, fast, cruel and lacking in solidarity, it is marked by considerable social imbalances and has a tendency to disperse into a variety of groups and communities, losing their cohesion and the binding nature of their values. indonesia is not our main problem, but image-stormers like cohn-bendit who want the unplugged, unsolidarist society without internal cohesion for indonesia and for us too.
madam president, i wish to thank the commission for the answers, but i’m afraid – you heard my colleagues – they are not convincing or adequate. you mentioned the conditions placed upon mr farkas’ move. i’ve read them and, to be frank, they are simply inadequate. i already mentioned the impossibility of banning mr farkas from having professional contacts with the eba. will he really not interact with his organisation’s main interlocutor? besides, is not the private context just as much of a problem as the professional context? indeed, the eba also states that mr farkas can’t contribute to activities on topics directly linked to the work that he carried out in the last three years. frankly, i find this laughable. i cannot think of a single topic that afme covers that doesn’t fall within the remit of the eba and doesn’t relate to the work of mr farkas. i ask again, will mr farkas sit in the afme tower, working on nothing substantial? will he simply be afme’s poster-boy, and who will monitor whether afterwards farkas abides by the eba’s restrictions as also put forward by jonás fernández? who makes sure that the restrictions are monitored? it’s even worse that mr farkas is allowed to stay at the eba right up to his departure. his interests diverge from the eba, his loyalty is fundamentally compromised, and still the eba makes the european taxpayer feed the bill for farkas’ luxurious transition period. it’s unacceptable. finally, and this was raised here as well, i missed from your response, mr commissioner, a sense of the structural pattern of revolving doors with the eu’s institutions. after barroso’s move to goldman sachs, neelie kroes to uber and jonathan hill to ubs you still fail to take appropriate action. when will you finally enforce your own rules and live up to your and our standards? when will you finally put an end to the achilles heel of your institution’s integrity?
madam president, when a senior bank supervisor, while still in office, negotiates working for the other side, there is clearly a public appearance that this person is being bought out of office. public trust in the financial sector is low anyway, and they have the impression that it is intertwined with banking supervision. therefore, a cooling-off period of just a few weeks is clearly insufficient. also, we have no idea when he started the negotiations. was that at a time when he was still exercising his functions and did it have any influence on his functions? can someone tell us about that? i believe that there is a very legitimate interest to have a sufficient cooling—off period to avoid even the appearance of a conflict of interest. it’s an issue of trust. but if one thinks the staff regulations are not sufficient for imposing such a period then would one not propose a reform?
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not i would like to ask all my colleagues in parliament today to make a push for peace in kashmir. let us help bring the parties back to the negotiating table. we should remember that both parties have nuclear weapons. we must reduce these tensions, because the consequences of armed conflict may be unpredictable, both for people and for the environment. i am convinced that a window is being carefully opened between the parties to the conflict. i think you want to talk to each other, but you can't. let us work together to defuse this situation. let us support these talks, let us take the initiative, let us not take sides, let us be honest brokers and offer our help. i appeal, no, i urge my colleagues in this parliament to put aside our political differences for a moment. support this resolution, support peace! help the people of kashmir and the entire region!
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not i would ask that the following item be added to the agenda: violence against women situation in women's shelters. unfortunately, women are increasingly becoming victims of domestic violence and victims of sexual exploitation through cross-border trafficking. in their desperation, they seek refuge in women's shelters. however, they often find that they cannot find the protection they have hoped for and desperately need because of their exhausted reception capacities. we're literally leaving these women out in the rain. we must not only follow their fate in committees, but also in the hearings of the libe and femm committees, for example, where i heard about a young woman from eastern europe who was lured to italy under false pretenses, forced into prostitution, and who was only given temporary shelter in a women's home before she was finally discharged into homelessness. no, we must make this subject available to the widest possible public, namely here in the house. i therefore ask for your support in order to add this item to the agenda.
i have to say, madam president, we are celebrating 30 years of the convention on the rights of the child. they are designed to protect the survival, development, non-discrimination and interests of children. we're not going to. what good is parliamentary lip service when technology is promoted and green ideologues dream of electric mobiles whose batteries have a longer life expectancy than the pitiful children who have to scrape the rare earths out of the ground to produce them? what is the use of parliamentary lip service when children are disturbed, even traumatised, by disgusting sexual practices in kindergartens and schools in the name of tolerance and diversity? what is the use of parliamentary lip service if the well-sound intention to protect children's rights is nothing but to deprive parents of their natural right to care for, nurture and educate their children? i say to all the ideologically blinded advocates of this beautiful new world gathered here in the plenary: keep your hands off our children! ceterum censeo: a parliament that only hides behind lip service and works in this way should be abolished.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. turkey's actions in the eastern mediterranean cannot be viewed in isolation. turkey's actions in northern syria, its support for terrorism and extremism in the middle east and africa, its repression of political opponents in turkey and elsewhere, and its threats to flood europe with more migrants all point to the true nature of the erdoğan government. the turkish attitude to natural gas exploration in cypriot waters is just another expression of its utter disregard for the rule of law and its contempt for the international community. the international community, both within europe and beyond, must be unanimous in condemning turkey and its unreliable justification for its incursion into cypriot waters. we must therefore send a clear message to turkey that we will not tolerate any more of this government's actions. we should do everything necessary to protect ourselves against this very obvious further attempt to undermine our interests, our values and above all our security.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. at least in bolivia, democracy seems to be on the rise again. the attempted electoral fraud by evo morales was stopped by the people. but instead of rejoicing, the leftist governments in latin america are panicking, and with them the leftist parties here are falling prey to the flourishes and the beauty of the world. instead of admitting defeat, they're talking about a coup. but that is simply not the case. morales's downfall is the downfall of a socialist who has failed democracy. and democracy will also fail some here in the chamber if they do not stop throwing sand in people's eyes - as you have done in your failed attempt to turn the agenda into a coup d'état. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to be able to do this. you put ideology before facts. morales was increasingly a usurper, and you should finally respect the strong will of the bolivian people to get rid of him.
i have to say, madam president, latin america is in turmoil, and now bolivia. the country, which was at least temporarily on the right track, is now experiencing extreme, shocking violence. i think we should not make bolivia the scene of all these ideological debates here, as the extreme right is trying to do, but we should act and find solutions. the eu must do everything in its power to de-escalate this explosive situation. we must work to end polarization and violence. it is very important that the military withdraw and the military and the police withdraw and no longer use violence. it is also important that morales calls on his supporters to be peaceful, just as the opposition leaders must call on their people to exercise restraint. the country must return to constitutional rule as soon as possible. this includes immediate new elections under international observation. of course, evo morales must be granted the right of return. the future is clear . the increasingly authoritarian style of the last years of government has been a big problem and definitely needs to be overcome. but the social and social achievements of recent years must not be allowed to be undone.
madam president, information is the enemy of repression, and that is why repressive regimes target journalists first. they intimidate them; they block media outlets; they kill them. and when they get away with it, they move on. social media is blocked; tweets can get you into prison. next, the internet is shut down. but how can we actually know what is happening on the streets of baghdad, hong kong, santiago de chile if no one is left to report? tonight, i received a message from a friend in iraq. ‘every night at six,’ he said, ‘they shut down the internet and then they come and kill us and no one is there to watch.’ sadly, this friend is right. impunity of crimes against journalists just encourages another round of violence and repression. i want us to break this pattern here and elsewhere because there can never be freedom without freedom of the press.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. daphne galizia and ján kuciak are just two examples of journalists murdered in the middle of europe. they were murdered for exposing corruption. but their fate is only the tip of the iceberg, because here in europe too, more and more journalists are being pressured, harassed, fired, attacked or even murdered. i want to make it very clear: there is no freedom of the press when investigations into corruption in the middle of europe end in death. but without journalists, without a free, diverse press, there is no democracy. without journalists, there is no control of the powerful where other institutions fail, and without journalists, we open the door to corruption and nepotism. that is why protecting this important role of journalists is one of the core tasks of our democracy. if our member states, the member states of the european union, fail to protect fundamental rights here in the union, then the eu must intervene and, if necessary, cut the member states' funds. because it must be our promise as the european parliament to journalists that we will do everything to protect this essential task.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the situation in the hotspots on the greek islands, in particular in the moria camp (2019/2898 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a full answer. i am particularly pleased that you have reported from samos about the situation there, because i tried to look at this in april and i was unable to gain access there. not only was i unable to gain access, but i ended up seeing the police station in the camp because the camp manager put me in the police station instead of showing me around the camp. now, this is a small point, but it also shows a little bit of how we're dealing with the situation right now and that we don't really want to show how bad it is. i have made some notes here, but i can actually join the speakers. i was in lesbos last week. you don't know what to say anymore. we have been discussing this for four years. 70% of the work is done by volunteers. there is no schooling, no government schooling for children in the camps. the camp in moria has 3,000 places and 14,000 people. there are unaccompanied minors who have to sleep on the streets. and then if we look at what's happened in the last few years: the member states said at the beginning: 'ok, we want to relocate 160,000 people from italy and greece.' in the end, they promised 100,000 places, and it turned out that almost 30,000 people were relocated. it is true that european solidarity does not look like this in the end. i also think that we have to ask ourselves: how is it that people in europe have to spend the winter in summer tents? that doesn't say anything about the size of the problem in the greek islands, that it's there, but it does say a lot about the size of us. i would actually like to see us not having the same discussion next winter.
ms šojdrová, you are the next but one speaker and we are really running out of time. is it okay if you replied in your speech? is that okay?
excuse me commissioner. colleagues, would you please be so kind and either take your seats or continue your discussions outside. we can hardly hear the commissioner, especially the colleagues in the back and in the aisle. hello? are you listening? would you please discuss outside and please be quiet and take your seats. thank you.
excuse me again. i can hardly understand what the commissioner is saying, i don’t know about you. the people who are concerned are not even listening now. would you please stop talking at that volume, because we can’t really hear the commissioner speak. it is a matter of respect, so take your seats please.
thank you very much commissioner. your last words, especially, were worth listening to.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i believe that early sexualization is the worst outgrowth of the ecological fascism that is spreading in europe. we're talking about four-year-olds being guided by adults to masturbate. i think it's perverse, and i think it's sick. i am proud that the catholic people of poland, the family- and child-friendly people of poland, are standing up against this. the education of children is in the hands of the parents. the education of children should never be the responsibility of the state. we are fighting for freedom and sovereignty. we are absolutely against stealing the future from children. early sexualization, i'll say it again, is sick and perverse.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is probably not just my e-mail inbox that has been overflowing with this topic in the last few days, the topic of a threatened lead ammunition ban. it is not a question of pursuing a clientelist policy, but of understanding the game of the heron as an element of active environmental protection. and that is why i would like to put this matter on the agenda. you saw it when we were debating the amendment of the firearms directive: we had over 340 000 objections to that directive at the time. we must take up the whole issue of hunting and also speak out, at least with the commission, on the question of whether hunting by man-eaters should be restricted in practice. that should at least be worth discussing in this house.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the resolution on cop 25 is a document of embarrassing intellectual embarrassment to me, not only because of the ridiculous claim in paragraph 33 that the global action of the next 10 years will affect the future of humanity for the next 10,000 years: saving the climate. a climate that has been changing undeniably for millions of years, sometimes drastically, without any human intervention. this is now to be frozen at the level of anno domini 2015. environmental protection is also a synonym for climate protection. catastrophic environmental damage from rare earth mining: whatever. lead and cadmium in solar panels, child labour in the congo, health consequences of infrasound, disastrous land use, soil sealing, low-species energy crops, monocultures, sulphur hexafluoride in wind turbines a 24 000 times more potent greenhouse gas than co2 : it doesn't matter. the end justifies the means, it seems. so the next 10,000 years. if we allow this apocalyptic policy of terror of the new green totalitarianism to prevail, then we do not even have to worry about the next ten years.
i have to say, madam president, i do not share the view that this resolution, which we are voting on this week, has no teeth. i would therefore like to stress three points. first, the fight against deforestation in the rain forests. every two minutes, an area equal to 35 football fields is lost to deforestation. the world's forests are making a major contribution to climate change by absorbing greenhouse gas emissions. the epp group therefore puts the protection of our forests at the heart of climate action. we have included a whole chapter on this subject in the resolution. another area of focus for us is the compatibility of climate action and the protection of jobs. if we want to convince our international partners, we have to show them that climate action is possible without destroying jobs. in the eu, we have managed to reduce co2 emissions by 23%, while gross national product has increased by 23% in the same period. but for this to happen, investment in just transition programmes is essential. luxembourg has set a good example and announced that it will double its contributions to the united nations green climate fund. i hope that as many colleagues as possible will follow this example. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are running out of time, but we are already running out of it. wildfires and floods are increasing; venice is underwater; biodiversity is collapsing; resources are becoming scarce. all the psychics are in the red! this is the cry of alarm from citizens and scientists. in the face of this, this is no time for political slogans, meaningless communication or demagogy. in the face of this, the european parliament must take up its responsibilities. it is our duty to declare an ecological and climate emergency. what does that mean? this does not mean that we have to put three wind turbines on a coal-fired power station or electrify buses that bring thousands of passengers to board airplanes. we do not need to patch up the system, but we do need to change it profoundly. in concrete terms, ladies and gentlemen, have the courage to set up a new cap, and introduce a kerosene tax. what are we waiting for to stop all useless projects? not a penny in fossil fuels. are we going to wake up? let's sweep outside our door! here, from our one headquarters, we emit 19,000 tons of co2 every year. let's be reasonable! so i say very simply that the ball is in your court: either we let governments do nothing or we make sure that this parliament raises europe up to become the climate leader and takes action. i say to you: let us be proud to vote together on thursday on the resolution on the ecological and climate emergency. (speaker refuses a question from robert rowland)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the policies that europe has already put in place to reduce greenhouse gases and protect the environment outline very ambitious commitments towards the eu's climate neutrality. but these commitments raise serious questions for our companies about their ability to remain competitive on a world scale, despite the new costs generated by environmental targets to be met in a short time, and for the member states about their ability to fully meet energy demand, their energy independence and at what cost. however, while this house is asking for heavy sacrifices from states, citizens and businesses, it is the european parliament that is setting the worst example: how much co2 and how many resources are constantly wasted to maintain both the brussels and the strasbourg seats? think of the economic costs of over 200 million euros a year and the periodic movement of thousands of people, vehicles and materials and the associated emissions. it's not climate neutrality! we only pretend to be green when others have to pay, while we do the merchant ears. how do we think we are really credible in the eyes of the world?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the next world climate conference will coincide with the start of the new commission's work. this means that we have a particularly good opportunity to take stock and to make concrete our politically stated objective of doubling climate-related action in development cooperation. we need better access to renewable energy and support for investment in climate technologies and knowledge sharing. we need to build sustainable supply chains and further develop the circular economy. we need international partnerships on sustainable forest, land, water and resource use, for example through certification schemes, and we need to invest in disaster prevention and early warning systems. and last but not least, with the increasing global rural exodus, it's becoming increasingly important that we rebuild our cities to be more efficient and climate-friendly, or to build new settlements or new cities in a completely different way. we in the house are embarking on the 26th conference on climate change with this resolution. i am particularly interested to see what contribution the new commissioner for development, mrs urpilainen, will make to this.
i have to say, madam president, the climate emergency is not an abstraction, but a brutal reality here in europe, as people in venice have been able to see in recent weeks. the floodwaters have flooded 80% of the city, causing millions in damage. these events show once again that it cannot be done on the basis of mere lip service. the environment committee is now presenting a resolution to this house for cop 25, which is a clear commitment to constructive leadership. on the other hand, it is also an appeal to the eu institutions and member states for more ambition in european climate policy, above all for the strengthening of the social dimension. the eu is to raise its emissions reduction target to 55% by 2030 and become climate neutral by 2050 at the latest - all as part of a just transition: a fund for socially just structural change or the fight against energy poverty. as s&ds, we stand for a climate policy that not only takes care of those who fear the end of the world, but also those who fear the end of the month. today, to put the brakes on is against the interests of these people. i am particularly pleased that the environment committee has voted to phase out nuclear energy. let us not leave future generations with nuclear waste. the energy of the future must be safe, renewable, emission- and radiation-free. that is why paragraph 56 must remain in its present form.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. climate change is probably the biggest challenge of our time - for me as a politician, but also for me personally, because i want to do right by my two children for the future. it is a challenge to do justice to climate protection on the one hand, but also to keep an eye on jobs in europe on the other. i do not want to sound the alarm, on the contrary: we must encourage and motivate, so that the best technological possibilities in europe can be used. fear paralyzes, but courage gives wings. we're not here to scare you. we're here to encourage you. and we must be measured by our actions, not our words. and we need to act now. that's why i personally think the term "emergency" is much better than "emergency", because as a surgical specialist, i hear something different from what we need to do as politicians right now. we must create the conditions for the best technology to be used, but we must stay out of the way when it comes to evaluating individual discussions. the european carbon trading is important in this respect. we need to strengthen it, expand it to other sectors so that we can play a role in the world.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too think it is very important to put this sign and call the emergency. i do not think that this is the end of the matter - i have to agree with mr linz on this occasion - but that concrete measures are needed. i shall therefore be watching to see, mr lins, whether you will vote for our green resolution on thursday, which will set out exactly the measures that are needed now. thanks for the heads-up. the good news is that renewable energy has become so cheap that we as a european union would be foolish to continue to rely on fossil fuels. because renewables require investment, whereas fossil fuels will simply continue to cost more and more. and i'm not even talking about the environmental costs, i'm just talking about the operating costs. there is a reason why, for example, in india, coal-fired power stations that should be under construction are now being taken out of the running and not built. there's a reason china is going to cut fossil fuels so much in its next five-year plan. let's not miss this opportunity. but we really have to say what this situation is: it's an emergency. that is why i ask you to support our resolution. (the speaker rejects a question on the 'blue card' procedure by robert andrew rowland)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. today is the international day for the elimination of violence against women. in my hometown, a month ago today, a woman was run over by her husband, who then tried to decapitate his wife with an axe on the street. i would have liked to have been part of a funeral march in her honor, but i'm sending my condolences to my hometown of limburg and hope that sana is in a better world. a culture of contempt for women is spreading throughout europe. men, or groups of men, as they are called in germany, measure their toxic masculinity - the colleague has just left - by the cruelty with which they earn respect and restore their honor. i think that the commission's proposal is a good one. to tolerate a culture that despises women does not eliminate violence, but encourages and enables it. this culture has lost nothing in europe. islam is not part of europe!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 26 november 2019. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on the 30th anniversary of the velvet revolution: the importance of the struggle for freedom and democracy in central and eastern europe for the historic process of european integration (2019/2931 ((rsp)). we welcome commissioner jourová on this point of the agenda. before i give the floor to mrs jourová, i would like to point out once again that applications for spontaneous reports and blue cards can be made both through the traditional procedure and through the electronic system. as usual, instructions are posted at the entrance to the chamber.
which brings us to the spontaneous verbal communication. we've already got 15 applications, but we only have five minutes. i have therefore chosen six colleagues from across all the political groups to cover virtually all the areas. spontaneous speech
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the recent action taken by the russian federation against lithuanian judges, prosecutors and investigators involved in the investigation of the tragic events of 13 january 1991 in vilnius (2019/2938 ((rsp)). i would remind you again that applications for spontaneous interviews and blue cards can be made both by the conventional procedure and by electronic means.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 28 november 2019.
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute statement on important political questions (rule 172 of the rules of procedure).
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to take this opportunity to ask you to join me in lifting 30 million children in europe out of poverty. help us introduce an additional child support allowance. our children in europe have a right to it. funding is basically no problem through refinancing. it's one of the best economic incentives, by the way. the european families need this money, they will spend it, it will be put into circulation and it will stimulate the economy. this will lead to higher tax revenues, higher productivity and additional, secure jobs. demographic change shows that a europe without families cannot survive. lip service like the child guarantee doesn't really help us. we must work together to create a europe of families. let's start with the child support money.
that concludes this item.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we know that the forthcoming european council will also deal with the conference on the future of europe. this is a great opportunity for europe if it can really seize it and also manage to involve citizens - civil society - from the outset. because citizens need a union that can act, they need an eu that really protects them and also empowers them in the face of the challenges we face - climate change, digitalisation and migration, but also growing inequality in many countries. that is why it is important that this european council sends a clear signal and that we ensure that together - all the institutions together - we use this conference to put europe back on its feet. in this sense, the last election has also strengthened our claim to a leading role in this area, because we as directly elected representatives also have a special role to play. we have seen in this sense that there is a german-french non-paper to set out some of the cornerstones for this conference in the council. it asks the right questions, and it also makes it clear that it is really putting europe's ability to act at the centre. what we as a parliament are particularly pleased about and also we as the s&d group: that there should be no taboos, that treaty amendments should not be further tabooed. but it is important to listen to the citizens first, to bring them into the debate with concrete issues, and then to really incorporate what is on the citizens' minds into the work of this conference on the future of europe. so it's not just about listening, it's really about dialogue and participation. we in parliament want to help make this happen and we are counting on you to send the right signals at the european council in december.
madam president, i take it from ms in 't veld that the young generation voted in the european elections and they voted for climate action. they want us to act, they want the commission to act and they want the council to act on climate. if parliament now does act, they will hopefully declare a climate emergency. but what is emerging is the youth, and what we have to do as politicians is to act. therefore, i hope that the council will decide to become climate neutral, that the commission will agree to increase the 2030 targets to least 65% and that this parliament will not only declare a climate emergency but also act on it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i did not vote for the resolution because i find it shameful that this important issue of 'children's rights' is being exploited to further fuel climate hysteria. i also find it shameful that young unaccompanied refugees without papers should be given further support. so in germany, in my country, each of these young unaccompanied undocumented refugees is supported by the taxpayer with 6,000 euros, and it is precisely this group - which is particularly bitter - that is unfortunately most often responsible for the most serious crimes. let's finally address the real issues: female genital mutilation is a topic; child marriage is a topic. topics that get worse and worse: forced prostitution of minors this is a topic; child pornography on the internet is a huge issue, there are said to be 45 million images and videos of child abuse on the internet. child poverty -- that's a huge issue. there are so many real issues. let's attack them at last.
mr president, all of us in this chamber care about the rights and dignities of children. i don’t think i’m setting the bar very high here, right? the desire to protect children is the most basic of all human instincts. it’s buried deep in our dna, it’s necessary for the survival of our species. so why did i just vote against this declaration on the rights of the child? because, yet again, something that has a motherhood and apple pie title is, in fact, filled with a miscellany of trivia, with congeries of accretions – all sorts of issues that have nothing whatsoever to do with the basic title. there are some amendments from the right, some from the left, there are issues here to do with abortion, to do with lgbt rights, to do with sex education, to do with the rights of children of fighters in the militia camps in iraq and syria. some i agree with, some i don’t, but here’s what they all have in common: they are not eu competences. sensitive issues of this kind should be dealt with by national parliamentarians elected on respectable turnouts, known to their constituents and therefore in a way that we cannot be answerable to their peoples.
mr. chairman, i voted for this motion. i have to say it's a little heavy-hearted because i didn't want to give the signal that i don't want what's in the best interest of the child. i would like to begin by saying that the european union should become a signatory to this international convention and that the commission should do everything possible to achieve this, which was one of the challenges of this motion for a resolution. this proposal covered a number of issues, violence, new forms of violence against children, psychological forms of violence, especially online, forced marriage, slave labour, access to childcare, quality education. a number of themes were well named. but i'm also disturbed by how much ideology is embedded in this resolution. i think, unfortunately, my political faction has also caused me to vote with a heavy heart. i would prefer to see less ideology and less practical problems to be dealt with in a motion for a resolution of this kind.
mr president, this resolution on children’s rights is an important and necessary one. we pirate party members of this house, however, regret to see that certain stakeholders, including powerful lobby groups, are using this important resolution to promote their own commercial products. and political groups like the epp are taking children hostage of private interests and make their support of this entire resolution dependent on this language being included. we fiercely oppose technology to subject an entire network to surveillance, because there are just too many ways to abuse it. the resolution also grossly misrepresents the findings of the quoted study. internet service providers are increasingly using filters to detect and report the unlawful distribution of child sexual abuse material, but there is no evidence that the total number of such images – reported or unreported – is actually increasing. so, for these reasons, the pirate delegation regrets that we cannot support the resolution, due to paragraph 16 and recital o and we abstained.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not 500 million more for climate investments, at least 80 million more for youth programmes and more money for democracy and human rights work. we greens believe that the tough budget negotiations have paid off. instead of cuts in the budget, there is now a plus. this is a great success for the european parliament, for all of us. i would like to begin by thanking my colleague and shadow rapporteur, mrs clotilde armand, and my colleague and shadow rapporteur, mr pierre larrouturou, for their many joint initiatives on climate and youth, but above all, of course, the negotiators, our committee chairman and the two rapporteurs, mrs eider gardiazabal rubial and mrs monika hohlmeier. without their negotiating skills, this success would not have been possible. the budget shows us that we can achieve something if we are brave. and we greens believe that we must now remain courageous, because we are at the beginning of an economic crisis. we need to do much more to achieve the climate goals. we don't have time for another "so". we need to invest massively to get our economy climate neutral in the next few decades and to get all of our people on board. our response to that is a real green new deal. now the exciting question is, what's going to be in the green new deal, and will it be fully funded? we greens believe that this includes, for example, investments in better, faster and cheaper rail links. we need to invest more in renewable energy, we need to invest more in good food, in clean air and water for all the people on our continent. the negotiations on the 2020 budget were tough, every single budget item had to be fought for by us in parliament, and some member states have simply tried to block everything without making any concrete proposals. i am expressly excluding the finnish presidency, but there are others who have not been very constructive there. copenhagen, the hague, vienna and maybe parts of berlin are at risk of missing our targets, of not meeting the paris climate targets, of not being able to increase research spending. we believe that this would be a bigger problem than if we were all prepared to put more money into the eu budget and into our common future. we greens believe that we should continue as parliament has shown. we look forward to doing so together with many other groups.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not you said just now that it is not often that the council and the commission are praised by parliament. that is right and that is how it should be, and the fact that there is a great deal of unity here shows how much has gone wrong. the 2020 eu annual budget should be a clearly structured budget, a clear overview of expenditure and financial framework. in fact, this budget is the exact opposite. it is an instrument of concealment, hidden financing and misleading the european taxpayer. not only is the eu budget being inflated more and more, by eur 400 million in 2020 alone; it is becoming increasingly obscure, above all, by countless partially hidden funds, the use of which and the usefulness of which are at best questionable and which nobody questions. what we are seeing here is not budgeting, it is deliberate opacity. let us take the emergency reserve of eur 1.2 billion. it is being converted into another budget heading for climate protection, i.e. for the clientelist policies of the greens and the socialists. this is how the allocation of ever-increasing sums to the senseless and uncertain energy supply we already have in germany is concealed. but while the liberals in germany are criticizing this, they are supporting it here. the eu budget is finally becoming completely opaque through the downstream allocation of funds to another eu institution, the european investment bank. where the eu budget is not sufficient to finance some ideology, it acts as a co-financer, with the very large sums and, of course, ultimately, as always, backed by the european taxpayer. so what appears in the eu budget as a comparatively small budget item can in reality be a giant project. the budget we are debating and deciding on does not show this. but what is the value of a budget which does not show the real distribution of funds but rather conceals it? in two words, nothing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, first i have to respond a bit to what mr fest said because i think, if you’re not there, it’s hard to be transparent about something if you don’t know it and if you don’t send someone to actually represent your group. so i think that would help in terms of transparency. i was also, let’s say, more in an observer role for this first negotiation. for me it was very interesting because i learned three things. the first is that the new set—up of parliament with renew and the greens also pushing priorities can lead to a budget which is actually better. i’m very happy with the outcome in that direction. the second is that a big deal is possible, and i also want to thank the rapporteurs for their great work in having a good negotiation strategy and working in a proactive and deal—finding way, and also for ensuring that we move from the commission proposal towards parliament’s position. so it is positive that we got eur 400 million on top of that. the third thing is – and this makes me a bit less optimistic – that the national governments often seem only to care about the bottom line of how much they have to pay and how much they get back into their own pockets. if we now think about this as the prelude to the mff for the seventh annual framework, i think we have to step up our game because the problems that we are facing – and i was in lesbos a week ago – are so much bigger than what we are currently committing to. we shouldn’t only be thinking about our national budgets, but really about how to fund common solutions to the biggest problems of our time so that we honour the demands of our citizens and that we are actually able to act from a european level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have achieved a common success as a parliament in these budgetary negotiations: more money and more investment for research, climate and erasmus. this was a team effort by this parliament and i am proud of our colleagues and i would like to thank our rapporteurs for this. but the future is about much more than that. we need a europe that is truly fit for the future. some people here still think and calculate - like the brexit party and, in particular, some member states - above all: what have we paid for, what do we get out of it? but in future it will no longer be a question of what europe can do for its country, but also what each individual country can do for a strong europe. that's what we're gonna have to fight for in the next few years. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a role in the world. we need more top researchers in europe, we need more erasmus exchanges and new technologies to combat climate change. but we must also be prepared to set new priorities. we must invest more in our competitiveness rather than subsidising our lack of competitiveness.
i would like to ask our colleagues in the brexit party, who do not want to be part of this budget any more, not to make any further effort to discuss this. we don't want to give them that impression. (the speaker rejects a question on the 'blue card' procedure by matthew patten.)
madam president, article 167 of the treaty states ‘action by the union shall be aimed at the conservation and safeguarding the cultural heritage of european significance’. how to fulfill this duty? well the last weeks have proven that once again one of the solutions is tackling climate change. what we do not need now is this religious-like belief that future technology will save us, is this bullshitting around of denying climate change or this useless discussion about what to do. we know what to do: stop coal until 2030; implement an ets that covers all sectors with a limited amount of certificates; introduce additional carbon taxes on transport and travel; establish a border adjustment and use all the revenues for climate research adaptation and mitigation. but what we also need is more money to save our european culture. i call for a fund for the salvation of heritage sites with special significance for our common european history. we must protect our background, but also invest in a common cultural future or, as robert schuman put it in 1951, ‘much more than an economic alliance, europe has to become a cultural union’.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the events, particularly in venice, have also affected me personally. extreme weather events, however, are not a recent phenomenon. coastal residents have been battling the tides for years and days. for centuries, cities such as venice, rotterdam, and london have worked not to control the uncontrollable climate but to combat its effects. they are not in their ivory tower, but are personally rooted in their homeland and personally affected. the lesson to be drawn from this is that subsidiarity is the best protection for the cities concerned. no one knows the local conditions better, is more committed to protecting their cultural heritage than the local people. what is needed now is not blame, but recognition of the competence of those affected and support for their protection efforts for the future and for coping with the present disasters.
on behalf of the id group. – madam president, i’m wondering that we speak about hate speech against gay people but now i have the impression we speak about hate on poland. the polish nation is worth that it decides themselves how it organises its lives and we thank the polish nation a lot. they brought us freedom against the communists and they now give us a new hope in europe for a conservative approach in government. i understand that you are very upset with poland as they voted for a conservative government and i’m not surprised that you attack now the polish nation for something which is not okay and which has to be defeated, but which is not a problem of the polish state or the polish people but it’s a problem of the police and the justice authorities in poland. you use something which i don’t support to blame the whole nation of poland and this is something which is the greater problem and the larger problem. i want to say for my group, we stand with poland and we think that the polish authorities are smart enough to tackle that problem, but i don’t agree that you attack poland, its tradition and its pride. god bless poland and i’m sure that poland is self-confident enough to not get impressed by your words of hate against this state in europe. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8)
blue-card answer. – it is binding the public authorities; that is the first thing. if we are in a relationship between two private persons, then both have the liberty to express their opinions and their concerns. the state is only asked to interfere if violence is in the game or if the law is violated. the point is that what you are doing here is that you are attacking the republic of poland and the authorities for something that happened because of a private organisation or the misbehaviour of an individual. that is the reason why i think that you are attacking the state of poland, because you dislike the conservative government, and use misbehaviour and maybe criminal acts of private individuals. and that is not acceptable. for misbehaviour and laws broken in poland, the polish police are responsible and polish courts have to pass sentence. it is not a matter for which the european parliament has to ask for sanctions to be imposed on the republic of poland. this is unacceptable and is an attack on the sovereignty of poland.
blue-card question. – you mentioned that in communist states, in communist countries, homosexuals would be persecuted, and sometimes face the death sentence. i grew up in communist east germany, and i would ask you, can you tell me in which communist country in eastern europe homosexuality was prohibited by law? or was that just socialist fake news that you offered to the plenary?
(the sitting was opened with the microphone off.) ...it's just sad that we have to discuss here tonight that in poland anti-gay propaganda is being carried out. it's sad what we had to hear in this house. homosexual love doesn't take anything away from someone who's straight. love grows only when all people are free to live it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. there are only two people who love each other. if that bothers you, you might want to ask yourself if you have a disorder. how evil must one be to sow hatred against other people who love each other? how insecure do you have to be about your own sexuality if you can't stand to see gays and lesbians and therefore wish for anti-gay zones? it is particularly cowardly to target a minority - supposedly weak - as a target. you are the ones who are weak because you obviously don't recognize or know what true love is. i feel sorry for you.
i have to say, madam president, people feel threatened, they are afraid and they feel hatred. it is mainly young people from small towns and villages. often, their parents throw them out of the house when they find out about their sexual orientation. that's how a young polish lgbti activist describes the situation in her country. two-thirds of all lgbti people in poland have experienced violence. hooligan groups attack young homosexuals on the street, throwing stones or rotten fruit at them. in this context, over 80 municipalities in poland have now declared themselves lgbti-free. this is not a political issue, not a purely polish issue, but a question of human rights, human rights for us in the european union. and it is our duty to stand up here in the european parliament, but also out in the streets, for human rights, for the rights of lgbti people. what is happening in poland today could happen in the baltic states tomorrow and in germany the day after tomorrow. we cannot remain silent, but we can take action, by inviting lgbti activists, for example, here to the european parliament, by holding joint events, by supporting prides or even city partnerships, and also by providing concrete support to many polish ngos, such as tolerado, who are doing a good job and fighting against this. let's do this together for love and against hate!
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i have a quick question: do you consider the expulsion of lgbti-free zones to be an act of tolerance?
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. do you consider the expulsion of lgbti-free zones to be an act of tolerance?
i have to say, madam president, yesterday, charlot jeudy, the chairperson of the haitian lgbtq group kouraj, was found dead. the investigation is ongoing. but one thing is certain: he has received threats of violence for a long time, in which his life was threatened. we hear such reports from all over the world. the eu must take a very clear stance against all states that trample on the rights of lgbtiq people. i expect this of our new foreign affairs minister, but i expect it above all from our commissioner for enlargement. and i expect all member states to do so, because we don't have to look that far. all over europe, we see that lgbti people have no legal protection against discrimination. some countries even practice discrimination themselves, as we have heard many times today from poland. 71% of all eu citizens are in favour of equal rights. but at the same time, almost 50% of the lgbti community has experienced discrimination and harassment. i wonder why. what is the problem with people who have a different sexual identity? i can only think of two possibilities: either you have a problem with yourself and your own orientation, you may be afraid of your own homosexuality that you carry within you, or you have a serious problem with love itself. but every man has the right to love whom he wants, where he wants.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, the european union is showing a guilty difficulty in protecting its manufacture in all its forms in many areas and in many sectors. we have unfortunately seen the ineffectiveness of safeguard measures in the steel sector, the invasion of turkish steel with safeguards which are unable to stop it, either in terms of price or in terms of the ability to protect market shares. in the food industry we see a guilty silence on this issue. i have mentioned some of the possible compensatory measures, but that is not what our farmers and the food processing industry need. what it needs is not compensation, which is small and insufficient today, but it needs to remain on the american markets. it is true that on the other hand we have an aggressive president trump, who shows a guilty laxity in trade policies and a total lack of respect for the traditional capacity of economic relations between the united states and the european union, but on this side we have a european union that has shown itself to be very fragile. we remember how, during the previous mandate, the european commission was about to give china market economy status with a light touch, condemning our manufacturing to death. so, again, the question mark is: but does the european union believe in its own manufacture? you think you can protect her? if you are, take a shot!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in response to the state aid granted to the aviation industry, the united states has targeted agri-food products, and in particular our geographical indications. this shows the willingness of the american administration to respond rather to the needs of domestic policy and of particular productive sectors. these are duties, as has already been said, which add to the suffering which the agri-food sector has had to endure from many causes, but also as a result of the political and commercial disputes with russia. we must therefore avoid a worsening of the situation, we say this very warmly to the commission representatives. in particular, we must strengthen our product promotion programmes in order to gain more market share and thus compensate for the losses caused by the duties. we therefore regret that in the recent agreement on the 2020 budget the council and the commission did not accept parliament's request to increase the funds for promotion programmes. we are still hoping, however, as mr de castro has said, that there will be an extraordinary plan for the promotion and support of the agricultural sector, which is so important for the european economy.
the commission has already done so. i think it is unacceptable that the agricultural sector should be involved in a dispute which has its origins in a sector which is completely independent of it and should also bear a large part of the costs of litigation. i therefore regret the decision of the us government to impose tariffs on so many agricultural products and i call on the commission to do everything possible to keep the agricultural sector out of harm's way. can you explain to me the connection between cars and the food sector? i can't do this. in any event, i am deeply concerned about the collateral damage to the eu's agri-food sector as a result of the decision. we can't let that go. these duties will have a significant negative impact not only on the target member states and their products, but also on the agricultural sector as a whole along the entire agri-food chain, and they will also have a negative impact on consumers in the usa. the commission is invited to examine the possibility of allocating compensatory payments to the sectors concerned in the event of a deep crisis, in accordance with article 221 of the common market order, within the margins available in the budget. scurrilous policy decisions are commonplace under the trump administration. there is certainly a post-trump era. until then, we are called upon to limit the political and economic damage.
madam president, it is indeed unfortunate that the us has decided to retaliate against sectors that have nothing to do with aircraft manufacturing. as my colleagues before stated so clearly, this policy has negative consequences for the livelihoods of thousands of european farmers and targets member states unequally. but the issue goes much deeper. it is about the capability of the eu to respond and to defend the rule of law in international trade. we want to live in a world in which court decisions are respected. that is why we accept the judgment on airbus and are open to negotiations. however, we also want to live in a world where such judgments are not misused as a pretext to pursue a protectionist agenda. wto law must never serve as window dressing for protectionism and isolationism. with this resolution this house takes forward these principles. we ask all european nations to unite behind this and we invite our american partners to solve this issue through dialogue, not confrontation.
in accordance with rule 132 (2) and (4) of the rules of procedure, seven motions for resolutions have been tabled. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 28 november 2019. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the crisis of the wto appellate body (2019/2918 ((rsp)).
madam president, i share the colleagues' commitment to multilateralism, but we should not exaggerate. the world trade organisation is not an ideal body that has always promoted fair trade, it is not true. it is experienced by many workers and citizens as the spearhead of liberal globalisation, with its prescriptions, its dogmas and its perpetual incitement to deregulation and the intensification of trade. you also have to be able to tell the truth. at the same time, the problem is real and i share your emotion. it is true that with mr trump, just as nato is in a state of brain death, we have the impression that the wto is also in a state of brain death. we must fight for the appeal, especially since we europeans respect the wto rules, while all our partners break them. of course, there must be an appeal and dispute settlement body. however, let us not be delusional and, i beg you, ladies and gentlemen, just because we have solved this problem does not mean that we will not have to save ourselves a radical reform of the world trade organisation.
madam president, the dispute settlement mechanism of the world trade organization was a milestone in multilateral trade negotiations in 1995. the mechanism has adjudicated hundreds of cases between member countries (and bernd mentioned it), including more than 120 brought by the united states against trade-distorting measures of other nations. it has helped to strengthen the rules-based international legal order with, by the way, the united states as one of its major beneficiaries. today, this legal order is under threat. the veto of the us administration – and it did not start with trump, it started already with obama – appointing any new judges to the appellate body will effectively block its capability to resolve disputes. of course, we recognise the legitimate concerns of our american partners: it is true that the appellate body must not overstep its mandate. but disabling it through obstruction is short sighted. for that reason i call on the commission to intensify its engagement in order to unblock the appointments procedure as a matter of priority, like we should do in this house. history is full of examples of trade disputes escalating into armed conflict. trade wars led to real wars. let us today unite in support of the rules-based trading order in support of the wto. i’m very happy that even the greens now fight for the wto, which you did not for so many years; you should have done earlier and in support of this motion.
i have to say, madam president, yes, president trump's strategy is just totally perfidious. in october, he took advantage of the wto ruling on airbus. the united states is really the country that uses the wto dispute settlement to its advantage the most. now donald trump is deliberately destroying the arbitration system and is continuing to undermine the multilateral system. but i think he's hurting himself with this strategy in the end. already, many businessmen, many farmers, many consumers in the united states are suffering. they're already putting pressure on trump to end his trade war and his nationalist entrances to the wto. the eu must negotiate and defend the multilateral system. i would like to thank the commission once again for this. but let 's not forget: the wto dispute settlement system - whether it works or not - is being used to enforce wto rules, and those rules need to be reformed in a profound way. wto rules must support the objectives of climate change and sustainable development. at the moment, they mostly limit the policy space that governments need for their social and environmental policies. the climate crisis and sustainable development must be at the heart of the eu's efforts to reform global trade rules. we can and must defend multilateralism in this way.
a motion for a resolution was tabled pursuant to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 28 november 2019.
i have to say, madam president, we note that this commission is indeed pursuing a largely left-liberal agenda which is surprising given the trend of national election results which just make it clear that people want a more conservative direction. the focus has been on climate policy, on whether it will be three degrees warmer in 100 years - another issue that, according to all the polls, does not really concern people and voters, but rather migration, the security of their jobs and the future of their home. we therefore believe that, while this commission is pursuing what the majority in this house consider important, it is unfortunately not what the people of europe and the nations want. we shall therefore be following you closely. we also say that we do not want high priests of some left-liberal religion, but servants of the common good. we fear that this is not what the commission wants to be.
the next item is the debate on the topical and urgent debate (rule 162) on the interference of other countries in our democracies and elections (2019/2941 ((rsp)). i would like to inform the members that there will be no spontaneous exchange of words and no blue cards accepted in this debate.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the greens also congratulate you, madam vice-president, on your election. but today we're going to talk about something else. the conflict between russia and ukraine is ruining our economy that was the subject line of the email that paralyzed the bundestag for weeks. it was a virus that was later revealed to have been inserted by a group close to the russian military intelligence service gru. this was just the most obvious example of outside interference in our democratic institutions. but there's a lot going on under the radar, and that's really a concern. everything that happens in agitatory interference in this form is part of a veritable ideological confrontation, a propaganda war in the digital realm, it must be said, between russia and china on the one hand and the liberal democracies on the other. it's not just happening in german or english, it's happening in russian. the case of lisa in my city of berlin berlin-marzahn , where many hundreds of russian-speaking people were literally mobilized by reports on russian tv, by fake reports on russian tv, is well known. but this propaganda is also happening in german, and not just in the form of russia today; redfish on facebook is a radical left group that actually advocates for interesting and good and important climate policy issues, but at the same time it instills agitatory propaganda and is owned by russian news agencies. so we have to look at these channels, these news agencies. but we must also examine our own colleagues. there are parties that have a deep contempt for our democracy today and also contempt for this europe, and they are also sitting here. just today there were reports about the afd it's a pity that the colleagues are not sitting down: jörg meuthen 95 000 eur, guido reil 45 000 eur these are the donations that it just became clear have been recruited by fake donors for these colleagues who sit among us every day. we must ask them where this money comes from, when the afd openly says that it is going to the russian embassy for consultations again and again. where does this money come from? a lot of that money came through switzerland. it would be interesting to have answers to these questions. but it is not just about the anti-europeans, it is also about us. we must strengthen our own democratic institutions, we must not fall back on anti-democratic patterns ourselves. this includes the digital culture, digital skills and the resilience of our institutions - here too and also towards our colleagues who owe us answers.
i have to say, madam president, i grew up in the communist part of germany, and i remember reading schoolbooks that said that the rias in berlin or radio free europe would try to undermine the democratic processes of socialism. i therefore say that i am clearly from the future when i hear mrs gibson's remarkable conspiracy theories or the spanish proposal to put an end to freedom of expression and the competition of news with a european intelligence service. ladies and gentlemen, people are voting for parties that you don't like because they don't like your politics. people are therefore informing themselves from objective news sources, including foreign ones, because they realize that they are not being sufficiently informed by the public-owned, but also the government-affiliated private tv and radio stations. who could explain on public broadcasting why trump was elected or how the war in eastern ukraine is coming? there's nothing but conspiracy theories in there, but no deep analysis. so if you care about democracy, you have to create the competition of opinions and the competition of suppliers, but certainly not try to silence other opinions with intelligence services.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, looking at our eastern neighbourhood, many people tend to see it in black and white. does this action support russia’s interest in the region? are those people the representatives of the west? but those are the wrong questions. the leaders of these countries do not have to believe in us, they need to believe in the future of their countries. moldova, georgia and ukraine are all at a critical juncture. in all three cases, we have seen ambitious starts of reforms, and yet in each case, but for different reasons, today we are not sure whether those reforms will continue or whether they will end up in democratic backsliding. and the question is not whether politicians can write nice press releases about western liberal values – i’m sure they all can – the question is whether they can carry out reforms backed by their societies. meanwhile, the eastern neighbourhood countries expect us to support them, especially since other neighbours are working against the success of these countries. the economic success of those neighbourhood countries would be putin’s biggest defeat. the societies of ukraine, georgia and moldova want us to help in the process of transforming their societies, which is not without sacrifice. i know what i want to see in these countries. i do not advocate reforms because that would serve our geopolitical interest, as you have mentioned ms mogherini, or the business interests of germany’s car industry. i’m advocating painful reforms because the overwhelming majority of the people living there want to see democratic and prosperous societies; an economy which works for the people and not for a few oligarchs; a state which serves the citizens, not the politicians’ personal interests. for meaningful change, we need strong and committed governments. however, strong government does not mean having an executive power without control. it is worrying to see those trends in georgia and in ukraine, as already mentioned. yes, the governments are under pressure, but they can by no means neglect or oppress criticism. our criticism is not about someone being pro—kremlin or pro—brussels, it is about being pro—democratic and in favour of functioning institutions. and yes, it is in putin’s short—term interest to have politicians in power whom he can personally influence or buy off, but this is not our style. we need leaders to be pro—reform. our interest is to have functioning institutions which will work well without putin, without the oligarchs and even without us.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the eu is once again taking a very cautious approach to a project: this time it is the enlargement to the east. let us look at the ukraine. ukraine has been the most prominent country in the eastern neighbourhood for years, especially because of its conflict with russia. since 2014, ukraine has received eur 14 billion in grants and loans to support reform efforts. this includes reform of the judiciary and alignment with european standards. this includes the implementation of the hague convention on child abduction, or hcc for short. if a child is abducted by a parent to a country that has signed the hague convention - for example, now specifically to ukraine - the country's judiciary should ensure that this child is returned to the country from which he was abducted. ukraine has failed to do so since the signing of the agreement. reports of corruption and nepotism are mounting, and by 2017, there were 33 child abductions from germany to ukraine. the then ukrainian deputy minister of justice admitted in an interview that not a single one of these children was returned to germany despite positive judgments by the ukrainian courts. i therefore call on ukraine to finally implement and transpose the hague convention on child abduction into national law. the eu should withhold all loans and grants from ukraine until it has fulfilled its obligation and finally returned the children.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i have a question for the two speakers. but i don't think the first one is there anymore. this project of eu enlargement is purely an elite project, and there is no majority of the population that supports it. in germany alone, more than 46% of people in recent polls have voted against enlargement. but it seems to be ignored because the people seem to be stupid. are we smarter than them?
on behalf of the id group. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: they said the two-state solution was the best, the most sustainable and the most pragmatic solution. the opposite is true. the two-state solution has long been an expression of the eu's political ignorance and lack of reality. the two-state solution means the return of the west bank and gaza. will this bring peace? i'm not sure. let us remember: in 2000, yasser arafat turned down a very generous offer to trade territory. in 2008, mahmoud abbas did exactly the same thing. when israel withdrew in 2005, hamas immediately demanded the total liberation of palestine, that is, the expulsion and murder of all israelis. hamas and fatah are not interested in the west bank, and they are not interested in gaza. they are concerned about haifa, tel aviv and jerusalem. you spoke, madam mogherini, of the political will needed to solve this problem. please note: the palestinians, the palestinian leadership, do not have that will, and they will not have it. that is why your policy, the policy of the two-state solution, is wrong.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, 30 years ago people took to the streets in europe and they stood up for freedom and for democracy. they were not organised, but they were united in one claim: ‘we are the people’. two weeks ago in this house we congratulated ourselves on the successful demonstrations and how they have changed our lives for the better. since this summer we have seen demonstrations in many countries around the middle east. algeria: ongoing. egypt: violent and cruel crackdown. lebanon: a prime minister stepping down and an old elite clinging to power. iraq: their protest is met with the utmost violence. about 350 are dead. iran: a massive media blackout. we don’t even have viable information, but more than 100 are dead for sure. in all of these uprisings we see people taking their claims to the street against corruption and for participation, against repression and for democracy. what is new in this protest is that they don’t care anymore about sectarian or regional boundaries. we are all iraqis is what they shout in the streets of baghdad, and that is apparently scaring the old elites. a tear gas canister fired at the head of a 17-year-old in baghdad, a mother in jail for posting on facebook in cairo, protesters greeting security forces with flowers and met with live ammunition in shiraz in iran. and we, the european union, the ones that have just celebrated 30 years of peaceful revolution, we are bystanders once more. in iraq we have been present for years. we have supported with humanitarian aid. we have had reconstruction projects. we actually have a mission on security sector reform in the very same country where medics are shot in the back when treating the wounded, where snipers are firing at peaceful protesters. and those in the streets of iraq, they refused the interference of iran and the us and they are very clear about that. the un has lost its credibility and protesters are clearly, clearly calling on us, the european union, to fill the void, to organise dialogue, to stop the killing, to investigate the abuses, to do a proper security-sector reform and to just teach them crowd control. and the eu is issuing statements without commitments. let me be clear, doing nothing or only a little in such a situation can actually do a lot of harm. we failed the demonstrators of the arab spring in 2011, and we should not let them down once again. we are all human beings and we are human beings with human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to draw your attention to a security problem which poses a major threat not only to the middle east but also to europe: the isis fighters who are being held in syria and iraq. about 4,000 people from europe joined is at the time. we europeans have still not developed a coherent strategy on how we want and need to deal with these terrorists. this is a political bankruptcy. the turkish invasion of northern syria has now made the problem urgent. an unknown number of terrorists have already escaped. this is a huge security problem that's coming our way. how do we deal with these criminals, these butchers, these human scum, who have brutally murdered, raped and tortured, who have beheaded, crucified and burned people alive? the european court of justice would normally acquit or, at most, reduce sentences, which would be a fatal signal to the countless victims of this terrorist regime. these terrorists must be punished severely and deserve no mercy. we must therefore support iraq and syria in setting up a war crimes tribunal. european terrorists and isis terrorists are the enemies of all of us: they must answer for their atrocities where they were committed. it is the only way to ensure justice for the victims. we are all responsible for the safety of our citizens. let us live up to that responsibility!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i shall confine my remarks to the situation in lebanon. we have all seen the current crisis develop with the resignation of the lebanese government in the face of public protests and the inability of political leaders to form a new government. behind all this is hezbollah, a designated terrorist organization, and behind hezbollah is the iranian government as a funder. lebanon has long suffered from outside interference and has become a battleground for competing interests. the hezbollah is acting as iran's proxy and its terrorism is further destabilising lebanon's already fragile institutions. hezbollah and the amal movement are attacking anti-government protesters in beirut in an attempt to ensure that iran's influence is maintained. israel has declared that it will not tolerate any further attacks by hezbollah on its territory. hezbollah is acting on iran's orders. it must be in our interest that this does not happen any more. we cannot allow lebanon to become a battlefield once again.
for the greens/efa group madam president, the new eu-acp agreement will be an opportunity to establish partnership relations on an equal footing, based on a genuine partnership and not on a paternalistic relationship. the outcome of the negotiations will determine the outcome, which is already problematic. with the opening up of free trade, many acp countries are unable to compete with the cheap products of the european union that are flooding the sahel countries in africa. let us illustrate this with the example of milk powder from europe sold on african markets. this milk defies all competition with local milk. in addition, migration is a topical issue of concern to both the european union and the acp countries. however, we must ensure that development funds are not tied to the draconian measures of the european union's migration policy, which has become a double-edged sword. it has allowed racists to sound the sirens of fear and thus to disguise their hatred and xenophobia under the cover of a lack of security. instead, we must seek to align our priorities with those of our partners on poverty eradication, education and vocational training, the promotion of legal migration and the possibility of return to the country of origin followed by voluntary reintegration in order to reach a genuine agreement that is in line with the objectives of sustainable development. we must not make development aid conditional on setting too high barriers in the areas of climate, migration and security. promoting such a policy is contrary to the values of the european union and the principles governing relations between partners. the imposition of such a policy on the acp countries is in many respects comparable to a neo-colonialist policy. we must have a common vision with our partners for a partnership which reflects the aspirations of both the european union and the acp countries.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, today’s discussion was very important. we all agree that we have to protect and restore the world’s forests, as well as to protect environmental defenders who stand up so courageously to protect nature. indeed, environmental defenders are indispensable allies in the promotion of environmental rights. i would like to pay tribute to the recently murdered rangers liviu pop and răducu gorcioaia, and express my heartfelt condolences to their families. while assessing the need for additional legislative and regulatory measures, we should already implement effectively the existing ones. the central responsibility lies with the national authorities. we need to work with member states to ensure implementation and enforcement of european union and national law on the ground. in that context, the commission will continue cooperating with the national authorities, including in romania, to ensure the complete implementation and enforcement of eu legislation.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 171)
in writing. forest and environmental activists are an indispensable part of strengthening environmental rights. but here too the regulatory framework applies and the end does not justify the means. i would like to see better cooperation with the authorities so that we can protect our forests and our environment.
a writer. mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your work. in the last two months, the algerian government has forcibly closed at least eight protestant churches, christian and jewish cemeteries have been destroyed, and the small christian communities in algeria are being persecuted by the state. algeria's blasphemy laws make it difficult for christians to practice their faith without criminal prosecution. in fact, algerian authorities criminalize peaceful speech, arrest people who do not fast during ramadan, and use state intimidation to restrict minority religions. the following figures illustrate the extent of christian persecution: a century ago, christians made up 20 percent of the population in the middle east and north africa; today, they make up only 4 percent. the french parliament officially launched an inquiry into the persecution of christians in algeria earlier this year. we should do the same. and we must be seriously concerned about the persecution of minorities around the world who preserve their judeo-christian heritage. we must demand that algerian parliamentary decree 0603 be immediately repealed and that christians can practice their faith without fear of intimidation, violence and discrimination.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the leader of the cuban democracy movement, josé daniel ferrer, has been detained since 1 october unlawfully , and is most likely to be tortured. what is the eu doing? we watch. well, i think that's hypocritical. in the recent past, the eu has been much more active in similar cases in cambodia, nicaragua and iran. and here we are watching. it seems that human rights are not so important in socialist dictatorships where you can make money. because that's what it seems to me, to be a cash cow. the spanish economy in particular is now the third largest partner of this socialist dictatorship in cuba, and the tourist companies and the hotel chains are making massive money. with hotels that are closed to cubans, they can't even get in. but we have to end this. the tourism industry is under the ministry of the revolutionary armed forces, so that's telling. human rights must be respected everywhere in the world, including in socialist dictatorships.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on haiti (2019/2928 ((rsp)). i would remind you once again that you can submit your applications for spontaneous verbal messages and blue cards in the system either by the usual means or electronically.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the deadline for the adoption of the regulation to 31 december 2010. i would like to thank you on behalf of the whole house for your cooperation with parliament, with the committees concerned, and of course for your personal commitment to the european union and to the idea of cooperation in multilateral institutions. thank you very, very much for this work and especially for the passion you have shown. (applause from the centre) the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. (the sitting was suspended at 11.12 a.m. and adjourned until the vote.)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the european green deal started with three promises: the first was to reduce emissions, the second to create jobs and the third to improve the quality of life. reducing emissions is a noble cause. but the eu alone will not stop climate change just 10% of global emissions are actually made in the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the coal industry, including the introduction of a new energy tax. so whether the green deal measures will ultimately benefit the world's climate is in the stars. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the massive cuts in the german and european automobile industry are also certain, for example in my home town audi is to lose some nine and a half thousand jobs by 2025. so the eu is already heading for recession. with your green deal, you, the president of the commission, who is no longer here, are throwing a baton between the legs of someone who is already stumbling. we need a change of mentality, we need freedom instead of subsidies, we need clear framework conditions, we need planning, predictability and legal certainty. this means that the technology neutrality originally demanded and promised will be respected in the promotion of future means of transport. the commission must finally give up its fantasies of control and give our companies freedom of choice again!
in writing. i welcome the fact that mrs von der leyen has just said in her speech that the green deal needs a properly equipped multiannual financial framework to meet the challenges. without a strong eu financial framework, the leyens green deal is worthless. in addition to strong climate legislation, we need more public european investment to make our infrastructure climate neutral. the framework for this is the multiannual financial framework. while von leyen is presenting her green deal plans in the european parliament, a few hundred meters away, the german federal government and other states are blocking higher investment in the eu and risking us missing the climate targets. we can't shape the future with the old numbers. we expect von der leyen to align the financial framework with the green deal and germany to present its own proposals for more climate investments. the federal government must actively work on a compromise proposal. the budgetary volume of 1.3% of gross national income and a reform of own resources, as proposed by the european parliament in a joint motion by all the political groups, are necessary. real ecological own resources such as a carbon tax or a plastic tax would be a start here. the commission has also proposed a european digital tax on amazon, facebook and google, which would be important to finance investment and create fairness.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the european parliament's committee on employment and social affairs has adopted a resolution on the situation of women in the european union. i would now like to propose that a motion for a resolution be added, to be prepared by the lead empl committee and voted on at the february part-session. the reason for this is that the current european disability strategy is coming to an end and this house has not yet made any contribution to the future strategy. as people with disabilities are still discriminated against in several areas of life in the eu, we believe it is important that the new eu strategy is more ambitious and comprehensive than before. we therefore want to make our contribution in the form of a resolution to the commission before the future strategy is drawn up. i think that all people living with disabilities in europe count on our support. i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support a motion for a resolution which will be put to the vote in february.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank a member of this house today. dear nigel farage, you are the father of brexit, and in doing so you have shown that even an anti-democratic institution like the eu is reformable and that there is hope for national democracy. dear nigel farage, thank you very much.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. vat fraud is indeed a problem, but the commission is only offering us sham solutions and a recipe for more surveillance and tax maximisation. the commission estimates that each citizen received €267 billion in vat each year, €135 billion less than expected. do we read the word "citizen" correctly? i think it is more the commission and the member states. the eu has the highest consumption taxes in the world. on average, eu citizens pay more than twice as much as others elsewhere. compared to japan or canada, we pay three to four times as much. the eu is also the leader in personal taxes and social security contributions. nowhere does the state have its hands so deeply in so many pockets as in europe. the citizens should therefore expect a full range of luxury services from cradle to grave the best kindergartens, schools, universities and hospitals and the highest pensions. in fact, pensions are falling, real wages are stagnating, debt is rising and the economy is stagnating. why would you do that? the eu and governments should finally be honest: they need more and more money to live out their multicultural lgbt and world-saving fantasies. that is why the eu wants to undermine the principle of unanimity in taxation and calls for more surveillance and more powerful prosecutors. the eu wants new and higher taxes and less democracy, but the citizens want the opposite.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the parliament, honourable irene tinagli, we all know how relevant the role of the european central bank is to our economy. the bank has played a crucial role in managing the recent crisis. monetary policy has successfully used the instruments at its disposal to stimulate the economy, and as a result, it has averted a serious threat of deflation. i’m glad to see a discussion on your agenda on these two appointments, specifically for two reasons. firstly, for reasons of democratic accountability. the treaties enshrine the independence of the european central bank, and this is a principle that the commission defends wholeheartedly, but independence and accountability are two sides of the same coin. secondly, as you can see from the composition of the college and the cabinets of commissioners, this commission is committed to the promotion of gender equality. it is my conviction that public institutions, such as the commission and the ecb, have a particular responsibility in this respect. i therefore support the parliament’s endeavour for gender balance in all european bodies, which was underlined by the honourable ms tinagli right now. as you were very right to point out in your resolution earlier this year, all of us working in the economic field need to move to do more on this front. however, we need to be careful to facilitate the functioning of the ecb in these important times, not least when the institution is not to blame for faults in the nomination process. it should also be highlighted that the ecb itself has stepped up its efforts on that front in recent years. i know you will make sure that it continues to strive for gender equality under the leadership of president lagarde. after all, the positions expressed by this parliament have already yielded results, following the appointment of madame lagarde and the election of ursula von der leyen as president of the commission, women finally fill two of the most crucial positions in the eu. i look forward to hearing your views and to continuing our good cooperation with the european central bank.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the executive board of the european central bank is undergoing a personnel change this year. in the case of the european central bank, the european central bank has been the most important institution in the world for the last decade. this is certainly a good reason to question some of the old methods and priorities of the european central bank. in this respect, the review of the central bank's monetary policy strategy, which was last carried out in 2003, is a good step. i think that we should also reduce the ambitions in these reviews, because the mandate of the european central bank is not being reviewed, the mandate is derived from the treaties. and if you want to change the mandate, you have to go after the treaties. it is not the ecb's job to give itself a new mandate. what is possible is to rethink what price stability means in the 21st century. the chief economist of the european central bank has just described the structural factors that are affecting our economy: demographic change, the shift to the service society, the increased demand for safe investment products. all these factors are weighing on interest rates. if this analysis is correct, then the ecb must also take the next step. this means that if the market-driven equilibrium interest rate declines in the long term, the monetary policy of the european central bank should also adjust. it is not worthwhile to dogmatically stick to the 2% inflation target when one is forecasting lower growth rates in the medium and long term. the ecb should therefore urgently review this part of its policy so that savings can return to profitability on a lasting basis. we as the epp will support both nominations and expect to work closely with the european parliament.
i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative to present a proposal for a regulation on the european central bank, which is to be adopted by the council on the basis of the treaty of amsterdam. it is a change which also coincides with the election of the new president of the institution and thus opens a new period, a new period in which i believe that the activity of the european central bank needs to be reviewed. i agree that the mandate of the bank is clearly set out in the treaties, but how that mandate translates into the concrete objectives and instruments for implementing that monetary policy is obviously part of the debate. the ecb's current monetary policy strategy was agreed as early as 2003, more than 15 years ago, and much has happened since then: the natural interest rate of money has fallen in response to demographic changes and the challenges of digitalisation, and therefore the ability to implement monetary policies is severely constrained by this permanent fall in the natural interest rate. we therefore need to look for other objectives, within the mandate, but other objectives. we need to look at whether we can incorporate asset prices, or whether we need to set that inflation target not so much on price growth, but on the price level itself. and, furthermore, we also need to review the instruments in a digital world that opens up a new ground for monetary policy. and for all that, i believe we have a prepared ecb and the two people we are voting on tomorrow bring clarity and principles to that debate.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we greens support isabel schnabel and fabio panetta in this task. but i think we should take this opportunity to point out how this happened. for many years this parliament has been arguing for us to have more gender balance in the key financial positions of the eu, and to date we have not succeeded. for the sake of honesty, we must add: not even with ourselves. but what has happened here is that parliament has made it very clear that we want balanced lists in future so that we can decide on qualifications and gender equality. and the council has not accepted this, it has not been able to cope with it, because top positions are still first and foremost made the subject of national heritage, where it is said: now it is the turn of an italian, then a german, then a frenchman, then someone from a small country. but this is not the way to get the most qualified candidates, nor is it the way to achieve a reasonable gender balance. we therefore need an interinstitutional agreement from the council of member states on how we can achieve a reasonable balance in the future without affecting the individual candidates. and the commission is called upon to help to achieve such an interinstitutional agreement on the filling of senior positions in the european institutions in the financial field. but we must also ask ourselves whether this is only about personnel and individual positions. would it really have been the case if a woman had been in charge of the ecb, that she had been setting the monetary policy strategy for years, when a man came? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. that's why i think it's right that the new boss said we're reviewing the monetary policy strategy. and this is the right opportunity to promote, within the framework of the contractual tasks, both the greening of the monetary and supervisory policies of the ecb and to take greater account of the side effects of low interest rate policy. the risk of asset price bubbles is real, and it is also true that both the candidates we are now selecting and christine lagarde have made it clear that only a common fiscal policy, the completion of economic and monetary union and banking union can change interest rate policy. and this house should be part of that.
president, commissioner gentiloni, the european central bank has been pursuing a very expansionary policy for over a decade, for which there were of course very good reasons during the financial crisis and the acute phase of the euro crisis. however, we are now seeing that the continuation of this policy is beginning to have more and more unintended consequences. the result is, among other things, a drain on savings, a pressure on productivity as more and more so-called 'zombie companies' are kept alive, and a constant pressure on financial stability. so there is a lot of work in store for the new president and the two candidate directors or directors we are talking about today, mrs schnabel and mr panetta. both have made a very good impression on me during the hearings and will therefore receive our support. i would like to conclude by referring to the following particularly curious statement made by mrs schnabel during her hearing: there are very few people who understand what's really going on. i immediately protested against this and mrs schnabel responded positively. in fact, it has promised to do its utmost to make the communication of central bankers clearer and more understandable to the average citizen.
the commission has already done so. i would also like to take this opportunity to wish mrs schnabel and mr panetta a happy hand in their future work. the whole of europe is watching the european central bank's staff realignment. we should take this moment of content retention to make some remarks. we have been living in a period of ultra-loose monetary policy and expansion of the money supply for years now. if you look at the results of this policy, you see that the monetary policy of the european central bank is driving a wedge of inequality across europe. not all companies are companies with shareholders. many companies in europe are also companies of savers, and these savings are melting away, and the banks whose business model is threatened by this policy are trying to solve their problems by turning the savers' fee screw. the independence of the european central bank is a great asset. i therefore appeal to the newly elected personalities, whom we in the epp support, to make their voices heard in the executive board of the european central bank. it might still be worthwhile to start a debate on whether the 2% inflation target is still relevant and whether it really needs to be achieved at all costs. i hope, therefore, that the current staff changes can be combined with a substantive debate on a change of course by the european central bank. i wish all those involved every success.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in mid-november, ms schnabel tweeted to german economists, urging them to refrain from making damaging and false statements about the ecb. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. in the view of the oecd and prominent economists, the ecb has failed. with its monetary policy, it created the lowest growth, the highest taxes and the highest unemployment in the developed world. the ecb itself has admitted in its financial stability review that its money flood has led to overvalued stock market prices and higher government and corporate debt in crisis countries. according to dz-bank, ecb policies alone have cost german savers almost eur 650 billion in lost interest income since 2010, while the bundesbank has squandered almost eur 1 trillion in target loans to save the euro. are these the truths that mrs schnabel wants to suppress? we want the competition of ideas as the best guide to the truth.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i listened with interest to the speeches, particularly those of mr berger, who explained to us that there are two types of company, those of shareholders and those of savers. the candidate fabio panetta made it clear when he said that the ecb rules are not suitable for the italian bank rescue. he is right, but it just goes to show that a single currency does not work when completely different schools of economic thought collide. how, in view of this recognition that there are different basic economic structures, one can simultaneously applaud these nominations remains, of course, the secret of the epp and the german cdu. because fabio panetta represents the interests of italy and the shareholders and owners of the company, that goes without saying. he's fantastically trained and has the academic credentials. but why germany proposes mrs schnabel, who also represents the interests of the proprietary economies and works against german savers, even criticizing criticism of the wrong policy, that probably remains the secret of the german federal government. the socialists, of course, always shoot the bird, mrs regner. this is about money, not half the bakery. and so it's about quality and qualification, and it's not gender-dependent. but maybe you'd rather eat cake than worry about the economy.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. complaints about too little corporate tax revenue and tax dumping are not always wrong political hotbeds. the european parliament therefore calls for a global tax policy with a un tax authority. the house also called for greater fiscal integration, a digital tax and the abolition of the principle of unanimity in taxation. the intention is clear: firstly, it creates new supranational powers and authorities, and weakens national and democratic institutions. a familiar pattern, because fewer and fewer decisions are being made democratically. almighty, on the other hand, will be the so-called independent institutions, such as the ecb and the courts - in plain english, the irresponsible institutions that shape economic and migration policies unimpeded by the voter. secondly, we do not want any further breaches of eu law. eu tax laws require unanimity to be reached. the commission has also proposed that the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. thirdly, the eu already has the highest government and corporate tax rates in the oecd. these taxes are used for bank bailouts and illegal immigration. germany alone pays over 60 billion a year for illegal immigrants and over 100 billion for the euro. fellow citizens, come to your senses. the citizens want more democracy and the rule of law, no more forced taxes, no more world-saving fantasies and no more a currency that cannot last.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. tax avoidance and the fact that it can even exist is simply a scandal. so many people in europe take on the responsibility of collecting tax money in a very real way every day: on the conveyor belt, in the office, in a hospital, everywhere. this is precious life time that people there are responsibly devoting to the common good. responsibility, this must also apply to large international corporations. many large companies do not pay the taxes required by law and take advantage of tax loopholes. but let's be honest: why are there tax loopholes in the first place? it is also up to us in politics to close them. we need a new way of taxing the profits of multinational companies fairly, and not just spreading the tax burden on small shoulders. europe is evading billions of euros in taxes, and that is what we must change. it is also the task of a german presidency of the council in 2020 to ensure that the eu takes big steps forward in this area. we now have the opportunity to bring corporate taxation into the 21st century. we need positive change together now, instead of fighting, going it alone or imposing sanctions. we need big answers to big questions, especially with the united states. we need an effective minimum tax rate in the eu and we need an agreement in the oecd negotiations by the end of 2020. if we can't do that, then the eu should go ahead and propose eu legislation for a fair taxation of the digitised economy, for tax justice, where the tax burden is shared equally across many shoulders, so that we can use that money to make europe greener and more social. because that's what social justice is, and that's what tax justice is.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. if we do this right, then with beps 2.0 we will finally bring our tax law into the 21st century. and this is fucking important! taxes are an investment in the public: children, schools, infrastructure. companies should take pride in making profits and in doing so, pay their fair share of the cost to the public in the form of taxes. taxes must be paid where the profits are made. that's enough! facebook, google and others must finally do their fair share, because the money is missing from our state coffers. for example, facebook pays no taxes in austria despite huge advertising revenue. the traditional companies, from voest to all the others, or many of them, are doing their part. it's unfair, it's harmful, and it has to stop. one thing is clear: for beps 2.0 to work, we need transparency. we need to know where the corporations pay their taxes and where they don't. even if we have taken a small step backwards, we must not give up on getting the finance ministers to finally end their blockade of public cbcr accordingly. austria has now finally voted in the national council in favour of a proposal by the social democrats to lift the blockade imposed by the austrian government. and so my appeal to the next presidency, to the croats, is that this issue be actively brought back on the agenda. finland has made a valuable contribution to this. and we must also, as the european parliament, be ambitious, i.e. a minimum tax rate of 18%. it is the only way to end the dumping downwards.
member of the commission. – mr president, we discussed this evening an issue that will, in the coming years, be crucial for our union and also for the sustainability of the single market and of our social model, so for this reason i think that the discussion was useful. i just want to stress two points. one is that your support – the support of parliament – will be crucial in the next years, absolutely crucial, if we want to ensure real reform. secondly, the commission is working to try to have a common position at the oecd table. we have to cooperate with the presidency because they are formally leading in this discussion, and i think we will have a very good cooperation with the croatian and then german presidencies. i will be very clear; we are fully committed to a global solution. it is not something that we are doing without real commitment, despite the difficulties in these times of all multilateral negotiations that we have to know and recognise, but we are fully committed. this doesn’t mean that we don’t have alternatives so, as i’ve said before, the task i was given by the president is to work on this global oecd solution with all our tools and commitment, and if this is not possible, to find a european way on this, and to find this way we will again need strong cooperation between parliament and the commission.
a motion for a resolution was tabled pursuant to rule 136 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 18 december 2019. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by ms luisa regimenti, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on further macro-financial assistance to the hashemite kingdom of jordan (com ((2019) 0411 c9-0116/2019 2019/0192 ((cod)) (a9-0045/2019).
i thank you, madam rapporteur. i have to tell you that you have already used one minute and thirty seconds of your closing remarks, so that at the end of the debate you will have only 20 seconds left.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me thank the rapporteur, ms regimenti, and the committee on international trade (inta) for the valuable work on the report, and for the spirit of cooperation. i would also like to thank the committee on budgets and the committee on foreign affairs for their support. it is worth recalling where jordan is coming from. since 2011 the jordanian economy has been significantly affected by regional unrest, notably in neighbouring iraq and syria, which led to unforeseen economic shocks even if some of its structural weakness and lack of competitiveness predates 2011. this regional unrest has taken a heavy toll on growth, external receipts, and has strained public finances. the syrian conflict has also impacted jordan by causing a large inflow of around 1.3 million syrians into the country. this large inflow of syrian refugees increased pressure on jordan’s fiscal position, public services and infrastructures. in these difficult circumstances jordan has so far managed to preserve macroeconomic stability, thanks to a broadly appropriate policy response and international support. with this in mind, and upon the request of the jordanian authorities, the commission adopted on 6 september a proposal for a new programme of macro-financial assistance to jordan in the amount of eur 500 million in loans. building on the two previous macrofinancial assistance programmes successfully implemented, the new financial assistance will help jordan to enhance the sustainability of its debt thanks to attractive terms of the loans, as well as to promote further structural reforms necessary to strengthen growth and the resilience of the economy. the programme is part of a wider international effort to support jordan. of course this assistance will be conditional on a set of structural reform measures to be agreed in a memorandum of understanding, and also on the existing and successful reviews of the imf programme. the programme is a concrete expression of the eu’s sustained commitment to supporting jordan, which faces an adverse and complex economic situation in a region marked by a persistently challenging and volatile environment. the european parliament’s support for this proposal will send a clear and encouraging signal that the european union lives up to its commitments and continues standing by jordan and all the people living in that country.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i would like to make a few comments on this subject as chairman of the committee on foreign affairs. we have just heard it from both the rapporteur and the commissioner. jordan is facing enormous challenges: the growth rate is falling, the public debt is increasing and the unemployment rate is rising, especially among young people. many external factors have contributed to this development. as a neighbour of syria and a neighbour of iraq, jordan is directly affected by the terrible armed conflicts in the region. according to jordanian figures, commissioner gentiloni has just confirmed this number there are currently around 1.3 million 1.3 million! syrians in jordan. despite the enormous burden on the state and society, the country's handling of this difficult situation is exemplary. the european union is therefore very keen to give a united vote to jordan's request for macrofinancial assistance of eur 500 million. i myself will be in jordan on 4 and 5 january. i can only agree with you, commissioner gentiloni, that we as the european parliament should follow the commission's proposal in order to continue to help our partner and ally jordan.
member of the commission. – mr president, i just wanted to underline the fact that the council has already confirmed that it will approve the european parliament position if parliament adopts its position on the first reading immediately. in such a case, the process will be on track to be completed less than four months after the commission presented the proposal. i think that such swift decision-making on a crisis instrument like macro-financial assistance is very relevant in general, and is absolutely needed for jordan. so thank you to the rapporteur and to parliament for this commitment.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 17 december 2019.
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute statement on important political questions (rule 172 of the rules of procedure).
mr. president, i have to go. in recent years, there have been changes in the law in ukraine that have significantly restricted the rights of minorities to use their languages. the revision of article 7 of the education law adopted in 2017 did not take place despite the recommendation of the venice commission, and in fact, they started to implement it. in addition, on 8 december, the venice commission called on ukraine to repeal the provisions of the law on the use of the ukrainian language adopted in april 2019 that distinguish between ukrainian and other languages, as the law is discriminatory. the international body called on ukrainian legislators to quickly pass a law on the legal status of minorities and to involve representatives of minorities in its preparation. since this law should have been prepared in parallel with the law on the functioning of the ukrainian language, the implementation of the law is postponed until its adoption. i hope that kiev will soon recognise that respect for and implementation of international instruments guaranteeing the protection of fundamental human and minority rights is an essential condition for rapprochement with the european union.
mr president, on 15 november, protests against the tripling of gas prices began throughout iran, and they spread quickly. the regime engaged in a bloody suppression and completely blocked the internet on 17 november, to prevent news on the scale of the process and the scope of its brutal crackdown spreading. according to amnesty international, over 300 people have been killed, and i’ve heard estimates from other groups that say it could even be as high as 1 500. the united nations human rights office reports that women and children are among those killed, and at least 7 000 people have been arrested. i urge the united nations security council, governments and the international community to condemn these killings and the suppression and call for the release of those detained. internet access for all needs to be completely restored, along with the human rights of those who have been detained. iran must fulfil its obligations to international human rights law by respecting the rights of freedom of expression and peaceful assembly.
mr president, the eu is in deep crisis and so am i. i have binge—watched this show for the past few months and i’m not amused. it’s not getting enough clicks, the engagement rate is pathetic and, in general, there is a lack of good content. i want to give you all here direct feedback. first, the storylines don’t make any sense: in one episode we are saying the eu stands for peace and in the next we are rushing to build up our military. second, the characters are hard to follow: i don’t know any of you. third, the message keeps getting lost. we should take a lesson from the eurovision song contest. people pay attention to naked people dancing. if ratings don’t improve, the whole thing will soon be cancelled. we need to offer our audience something worth watching. from the broken heart of europe, i am nico semsrott and this is the nico semsrott show with nico semsrott.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. christmas is coming, the most beautiful holiday of the year. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to wish everyone a merry christmas and a healthy, happy and prosperous new year. but this year, my very special christmas greetings go out to the british people. thank you for having shown us a way out of this bureaucratic eu tyranny, and here it goes (sings): i wish you a merry brexit, i wish you a merry brexit, i wish you a merry brexit, may you finally be free. i applaud the british people.
i have to say, madam president, the longer the investigation in malta goes on, the more clear the scale of the rule of law crisis in malta becomes: money laundering, tax evasion, selling citizenship to oligarchs, corruption right down to the prime minister's office, a lack of separation of powers. i spoke to daphne's son in brussels last week, and he again described in a very moving and very emotional way the situation that a small corrupt elite has taken over malta. the eu cannot tolerate such a situation, because there is no democracy, there is no freedom of the press in the european union, when investigations into corruption end in death. the corrupt take advantage of the free flow of money, the freedom to travel and the protection mechanisms of the rule of law. but we have to make sure that the eu, the judiciary, the police work together better than the corrupt. we need to coordinate better, to fight crime at european level and to give ourselves the effective tools to deal with such situations. we urgently need a rule of law mechanism for the eu.
i have to say, madam president, today, reporters without borders released its 2019 annual report. this year, 49 journalists have been killed in connection with their work, 57 media workers have been kidnapped, 389 media workers were imprisoned last year for their work. many of these journalists have paid with their freedom or even their lives because in their work they have trampled on the powerful, because they have exposed wrongdoing, because they have threatened power. so is daphne caruana galizia. the murder of daphne caruana galizia marked its second anniversary in october. as a journalist, she paid with her life for her commitment to the truth. our thoughts are with her and her family. we owe it to them to act. daphne galizia's fight for transparency and against corruption was not in vain. she needs to see justice done to her personally. this is true in three ways. first, we will do our part to ensure that all those responsible and those complicit in her death and the crimes she sought to expose are held accountable. the whole truth must come out. secondly, we must ensure that journalists can do their jobs safely. a free press, which can also be a threat to the powerful, is fundamental to our society and to a functioning rule of law in all eu member states and worldwide. we must fight the root of the evil. we must fight against what daphne caruana galizia was investigating. we cannot stand by and watch the values of the rule of law being trampled on, we must stand up and take action to fight corruption, to fight money laundering, to protect the independence of the judiciary and the independence of the prosecution. we must examine and impose rules on the issuing of so-called golden visas and passports, which exist in 17 member states of the european union. we must also strengthen a free and confident civil society that can speak out when fundamental problems arise. we need an early mechanism to combat conditions such as we have now seen in malta much earlier. we need the mechanism for the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights. we owe that to daphne caruana galizia.
i have to say, madam president, i am not going to go into detail. those who kill journalists kill democracy. because without freedom of the press, all freedom is nothing. and that is why the murder of daphne caruana galizia is so dramatic, because it is precisely the freedom of the press and the rule of law that is being called into question, not just in malta, but in all of europe. i would therefore like to thank our colleagues in the european parliament, and in particular sophie in t veld, for her investigation on the spot. and i would like to join in your call for the prime minister to resign so that the investigation is not compromised. mr muscat, please step back. and dear s&d: please join this call. i cannot understand this argument, which is being invoked by my predecessor, that there will soon be a new government. yeah, well, then he can resign now and make sure that the investigation isn't compromised any further. it would be consistent to finally ask for this in a proper way in this european parliament. i am not going to go into detail. but the situation also shows that we are now discussing the rule of law in europe again and again in different places, and this is not a geographical question of east or west, this is a question of europe. we must protect fundamental values throughout europe, we must protect freedom of the press throughout europe, we must protect the rule of law throughout europe and we must protect journalists above all, and that is why this murder must finally be fully investigated and the rule of law restored in malta.
blue-card answer. – thank you very much. well, very simply, it is just that this prime minister muscat needs to go. he needs to go right away. there is a murder. let me just repeat that. there is a murder of a journalist in malta and there are links to the prime minister’s office. i mean he should just simply resign. you should have new elections and asked the people of malta to act. in hungary, we may have a political debate, we may have a debate with the commission at times – very well, that’s what europe is about, political debate. it doesn’t even compare to what’s happened in malta. this is outrageous and, again, the hypocrisy of the left is just outstanding in this matter. (applause)
i have to say, madam president, i am not going to go into detail. "a murder plot in the lobby of the prime minister's office", headlined the neue züricher zeitung on december 8. we know what that means, and it has a very different quality, as my predecessor from hungary has already said. the defence of the freedom of european citizens is the paramount duty of this house, regardless of the colour of the government. this quote is from the then s&d group leader bullmann in september 2018. the s&ds have been involved in the debate, but now they are not. the events in malta are shocking. we must do everything we can now to ensure that the rule of law is finally established. i am not saying that we are going to return to the rule of law, because we are not there yet in malta, and there is still a lot to do. now there must be a rigorous investigation. but of course, in order to have a full explanation, muscat has to step down immediately, so that no more evidence and other things disappear. but one thing in particular shocks me here, and that is the s&d's behaviour. it's very, very worrying. we have heard nothing from you in this debate except general phrases and jargon, and nothing at all, and that is shameful for such a large popular party as the s&d, ladies and gentlemen. i call on the social democrats: you must distance yourself from your party friend muscat.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral reply to the commission on conflicts of interest and corruption affecting the protection of the eu's financial interests in the member states, by monika hohlmeier, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control (o-000041/2019 b9-0061/2019) (2019/2963 ((rsp)). i would remind you that you can apply for the possibility of spontaneous verbal communication and the use of the blue card both in the usual way and by using the electronic system.
as the spokeswoman for the committee responsible, i did not interrupt it, even though it was too long. i would ask the commissioner to make a statement on the matter and to make it clear that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i should like to welcome commissioner hahn to his new post.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. our eu budget is financing oligarchs. we fund the people who abuse our system. thanks to the excellent work of the media, academia and ngos, some of the oligarchs who are particularly systematic in plundering the eu's coffers have become known. the most prominent of these is the czech republic's representative to the european council, prime minister andrej babiš. but he's certainly not the only one. under public pressure, the commission has investigated a number of individual cases. but if we are to remain credible to the citizens of the eu, we must also increase the speed of our investigations: it is not enough to suspend payments. if projects are declared ineligible by the commission, there must be consequences. there is a pressing need for transparency. but this is about more than individual misconduct: we need to change incentive structures so that we don't continue to feed oligarchs, but rather empower democrats. the oligarchy is a poison for democracy, especially in the weakest sectors. if those in power over political and economic access to eu funds can undermine our democracy and even evade national prosecution under the rule of law, as seems to be the case in the czech republic, then the work of the european public prosecutor's office should be brought to bear. this newly created european public prosecutor's office needs - and you, commissioner hahn, have a responsibility for this - an adequate budget. we need to increase the budget allocations for the european public prosecutor's office substantially and at least double the number of prosecutors assigned to deal with the cases coming in from the member states. there's a lot at stake here! so, good money in the right places instead of millions going to corrupt oligarchs.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. today's debate on 'conflicts of interest and corruption affecting the eu's financial interests in the member states' clearly shows that we have a fundamental problem with the eu construct. first, we persuade the member states with english to give us over a trillion euros for seven years, expecting us to distribute the money - let's say, carefully, a large part of the money - fairly. we are inventing wonderful programmes, we are feeding large sums of money into flowery funds and we are providing multiple incentives so that member states can then participate and implement the programmes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to the full. we in parliament - or more precisely the committee on budgetary control - are seriously concerned when we see the danger of misuse of eu funds in important policy areas such as agriculture and cohesion becoming apparent. you are right, mrs hohlmeier, to point out that such cases threaten the confidence of citizens in the eu institutions and have a negative impact on the implementation of policies. you are also asking good questions to the commission. but after all i have heard so far, i do not have the impression that the eu's financial interests are now better protected against fraud and corruption than they were before. let 's face it . we're only fighting the symptoms, not the causes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we should fight corruption and fraud in the first place by putting the system into question in every aid programme, by minimising or even eliminating the cash flows where appropriate and, in particular, by radically simplifying the rules and conditions for aid and making them completely transparent.
the blue card means that you ask the previous speaker a question, not the commission. if you have no questions, we will leave it at that, unless you have questions for mr deutsch.
i have to say, madam president, thank you, dear visitors, for being here. i'm addressing you first, because it's your money we're talking about. and you see the importance this parliament attaches to your cause, to your money: it's empty as usual. christmas is coming and every year we have the same debates. it is a recurring theme, the almost endemic corruption within the eu. all my colleagues have said the right things before, but you can see the total impotence of this parliament on this issue. when mrs von der leyen presents her green programme, the benches are full, the commission benches are full too. when it comes to an important issue such as the really multi-billion dollar corruption in europe, there are some commissioners and some members, but otherwise the chamber is quite empty. everything that has been said here is correct. the two great sources of waste or corruption are the cohesion fund and, of course, agriculture. we've known that for 15, 20, 25 years. and for the same amount of time, nothing is done here because there is no interest in curbing this corruption. the european union itself is, in many respects, a system that promotes this very corruption, because it is too far from the people, because it is too far from the use of funds, and because it refuses to return these funds to where they should be, namely to the national parliaments. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. of course, you say it's only 2%, others say it's 7% or 5%. these percentages are also questionable. and we also know that even at 5 or 7%, it's going to be huge, huge billions of dollars. they've been after us for years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and you want the systemic problems let me finish don't see. that's your problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. after almost ten years, the eu has still not managed to implement the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the human rights of people with disabilities are violated every day in the eu. we must be more courageous and more consistent in order to guarantee them equal participation in society. the continuation of the current strategy is therefore not enough. we call on the commission to present a more ambitious strategy for all policy areas beyond 2020 and to set clear, binding targets with defined timeframes. we need strong monitoring with appropriate indicators and sufficient financial resources. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the directive. it is the only way to be honest about the implementation of the uncrc. we must also mainstream the rights of people with disabilities in all policy areas and finally address intersex discrimination. the new strategy for equality between men and women also contains this. women and girls with disabilities are particularly vulnerable to abuse. we must defend their right to sexual self-determination and the right to family, but also protect them from violence. yesterday parliament agreed to my request to add a motion for a resolution to be voted on in february. thank you for that. i would appeal to the commission to take our proposals seriously and to include them in the new strategy.
i will keep strictly to the time limit because we have so many catch-the-eyes that, if you overrun the time, i cannot take other colleagues, so please, stick to your time limit.
i have to say, madam president, i thank mr timmermans and the whole commission for remaining firm. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i am particularly pleased that there are no lazy rules on this so-called emissions trading now. because what is described in article 6 is not really emissions trading. there is no cap as in a real emissions trading system , but the basis is the national climate plans. each country can write in what it wants to achieve. if i can sell at a premium for every additional reduction achieved beyond my plan, then of course that is an incentive to keep the bar as low as possible. that is why it is perhaps not a bad thing if nothing has been achieved in this area. of course, that doesn't mean that this cop of the shutdown is a good thing. on the contrary! the millions of people who have taken to the streets to demand climate action are disappointed, and they have seen that governments cannot be trusted. it is all the more important that the high ambition coalition - the coalition of the ambitious - now coordinate and prepare for glasgow. i believe that with an ambitious green deal we can also set an example in this area, and we are very happy to support this.
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the year 2019 is the year of the climate movement. all over the world, people have risen up against the destruction of our planet, and we, here in this house, have declared a climate emergency. this is the year the climate conference fails. what a shame! but many people who have already gone one step further: they are developing the technology of tomorrow's decarbonized world, they are taking to the streets on friday for the climate, and they are waiting for the heavy-handed policy. next year, politics must follow suit, which means for you, mr timmermans, to say at the beginning of the year how much climate ambition you really want. that means putting forward a real climate bill so that the next climate conference in glasgow a year from now will be a success. in 2020, everything is about the climate. mr timmermans, do not disappoint the people in this climate year 2020!
which brings us to the spontaneous verbal communication. i'm not gonna be able to take them all. but i'm trying to distribute it among the factions so that we're about halfway balanced. spontaneous speech
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the eu pollinators initiative (2019/2803 ((rsp)). i would like to remind you that you have the opportunity to register your spontaneous speech or your blue card, both in the usual way and electronically.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, every year in europe millions of animals are subjected to terrible transport conditions: they are locked up, exploited and abused. we can no longer turn a blind eye to this animal abuse. animals have the right to respect, to be treated with kindness, just like human beings. last year, several ngos demonstrated that 70% of the trucks inspected at the bulgarian border did not comply with eu legislation. we must shed light on these practices. that is why we are calling for a commission of inquiry. but we need to go further. europe must take care of animal welfare, and this starts with reducing the maximum journey time and banning animal exports from the union to third countries. animals are sentient beings, living beings; they're not things, they're not objects. the european union must now give them its full attention and commitment, so that they too deserve to be a priority.
i have to say, madam president, today, not only the politician, but also the man martin buschmann speaks to you. a man who wants to open your eyes to how wrong it is what we do to our fellow creatures, the animals. on november 24 the queen hind sailed from romania. it was loaded with nearly 15,000 sheep, and it was bound for saudi arabia. shortly after setting sail, the ship struck a side and capsized. 14,400 animals drowned, were crushed, trampled each other in panic, or were left half-dead for days at a time. then came the rescuers of the four paws animal protection organization, who were finally able to find and rescue him. for the animals, this means untold suffering. it's not a condition. this cannot and must not remain the case under any circumstances. we must take political action to ensure that these crimes do not continue. i appeal to your sympathy, ladies and gentlemen of the house. animal welfare must finally be brought to the european parliament. we must stand up and say that we cannot continue to subject sentient beings to such a hell.
madam president, it is very clear that the sustainability of health systems in the european union, financial sustainability is an increasingly important challenge. on average, 9.6% of the eu's gdp is invested in health systems, with a large discrepancy between different eu countries. it is a growing signal that health systems need to be transformed to ensure patient access to health services and to optimize health services. i think that to really put the patient at the center of health care systems, to make systems more efficient, we need to make the most of new technologies, whether it's electronic health records, electronic prescriptions, telemedicine systems. we need to integrate and use ai more and more in health systems and support innovation in the medical sector.
madam president, of course, digitisation in healthcare can contribute to improving healthcare, and we are counting on it. but it's confronted with a lot of risks. some of them have already been mentioned. a big step forward is the personal data protection regulation, which protects patients' health data and regulates its sharing, among other things. the commission should also be able to provide information on the costs of the implementation of the union's health system, including the costs of the health surveillance system, the costs of the health surveillance system and the costs of the health surveillance system. digital health can therefore partially address the shortage of healthcare staff, but it must be taken into account that not everyone has the same digital literacy and not everyone is able to use digital technologies. so we need to think about retraining healthcare workers who need to be able to use these technologies. despite the considerable advances in digital technology, there is a need to preserve the patient-doctor relationship.
madam president, cybermoor is a social enterprise located in alston, a remote rural community in my north west region. initially established in 2002 to provide broadband and computers to improve access to services and overcome isolation, cybermoor initiated the alston health care project in 2007 focusing on telehealth and telemedicine services for the local community. they’ve delivered the successful implementation of a heart failure telehealth project and provide video links between hospitals to provide remote assessment of patients. they work closely with the local nhs partnership trust and with cumbria county council social services and they’ve got links with ngos across cumbria such as age uk. always innovating, they work with other ngos to recruit test users for new projects such as home monitoring by informal carers. the cyber more team have been involved in several eu projects including e10 which supports the deployment of trans-european e—services in the public interest. demonstrating the value of partnership working. i know that remote and peripheral communities such as alston will be hard hit by brexit as they’ve benefited enormously from the eu’s close attention to the outermost regions.
madam president, information on our health is about as sensitive as it can be. it includes data on our mental disorders, on our sexual health, including hiv, on reproductive disorders, etc., so certainly using this information for other purposes such as research and care can have benefits, but the commission’s communication and the proposed resolution we are to vote on tomorrow do not acknowledge that the patient should be in control of this information on their health and should not be forced to give up control by feeding this information into centralised and interconnected databases. we fully know well that a decentralised storage on unconnected devices is much safer and also, madam commissioner, 62% of respondents to your consultation said they want to share their health data for research purposes only if it cannot be tracked back to them. that means anonymised data, not just pseudonymised data. information on our physical and mental health must never be regarded as a commodity for industry to exploit but is a confidential and integral part of our personality.
i have to say, madam president, agreeing on climate neutrality by 2050 eu reaches agreement when i read your tweet, mr. michel, on friday night, i was delighted. this is a step in the right direction, and it's a great success for fridays and scientists for future. but what is this decision worth if the multiannual financial framework is threatened by rotten compromises? instead of bargaining over commas, it is the future of our continent that is at stake, and we can only shape our future in a european way. the finnish proposal for the financial framework is too weak for that. if we stay at 25 percent of climate investment, we're going to see the green deal fail, and without significantly more for research and digitization, we're going to be out of touch globally as well. climate-friendly agriculture, climate-neutral industry, energy-efficient buildings, fast and cheap rail links: all of these must be financed and we need to have room for all of these in the financial framework. i would therefore like to ask you, mrs von der leyen, and not just the council, to bring your green deal proposal into line with the financial framework. let's do this together. i'm still not settling the bill.
i have to say, madam president, i listened carefully to what mr michel said about the conference on the future of europe and i also read the conclusions. what we can see is that the european council has so far been very unambitious in its approach to this great undertaking. mr michel, i hope that you can help to change this attitude in the council in the new year. the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in this matter, and i hope that it will be able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. but for that we need a bold, ambitious approach and we need to actually get broad citizen participation with representative citizen dialogues. it is not enough to refer to the strategic agenda or simply say that we want to build on what we have done so far. i would like to make the appeal, along with willy brandt, that the council should also take a new approach to this issue in the new year, and that it should present a good, ambitious approach in the negotiations with the commission and parliament to win the confidence of the citizens. (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, madam president of the commission, let me say how pleased i am to see that the commission is taking up the idea of energy interconnectivity, in particular by linking portugal and spain to the rest of europe, particularly at the border of the pyrenees, as a priority for the 'green deal'. because this is not just an ecological issue, and it's not just an economic issue, it's also a geopolitical issue. we can depend less on russia if we open the doors of european energy to the iberian peninsula, because it will have clean energy and it will also have energy that can be imported from other regions and that can reach europe, reducing our dependence on russia. i would also like to greet president charles michel and tell him that i am a little disappointed at the council's lack of vision for the 'future of europe' conference. there 's something i wanted to say to you . it is important that the council should take action here. and there is a guarantee that parliament must also give to the council, and i am prepared to acknowledge that, that we must first listen to the citizens. there can be no results until we hear from the citizens. and so we are in full good faith to do this exercise with the council, as the council wishes.
madam president, the conclusions were unanimously adopted by the european union, which confirmed turkey's illegal behaviour both in the cypriot eez and in relation to the so-called memorandum with the tripoli regime. in both cases, turkey is acting outside of international law and outside of the un law of the sea. the council has today reiterated its solidarity with the member states whose sovereign rights are being violated. in substance, erdoğan's attack is against the european union, it is against international law, which is a community acquis, and it affects the highest strategic interests of the european union, which include plans for energy in the eastern mediterranean. and yet, while we are discussing these issues today and the council has decided on measures against turkey, tomorrow the new commission will begin a dialogue on upgrading trade relations with turkey. erdoğan is going to create a new jihadist regime in libya. we must defend our own best interests.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have two comments on the ratings. firstly, the member states have not said a word about the situation in malta, and we are talking about a contract murder in malta, in which the highest levels of government are involved. i'm going to be very frank, i think it's embarrassing. the second point i want to make is about the green deal: if we do it right, the green deal can be the engine of growth for the european union. the council has confirmed that. 'making things right' means relying on new technologies, on smart solutions. then, i think, we can achieve climate neutrality by 2050. it is technologically possible, but it must of course also make economic sense. i therefore believe that climate policy and competition policy are two sides of the same coin, and i am pleased, madam president of the commission, that next year you will be presenting your industrial policy alongside the proposal for the climate law, which i think is a good sign and i am curious to hear what you have to say.
madam president, as you take the brexit procedure forward, please be aware – please remember – that 53% voted in this election for parties that wanted another referendum on this. every opinion poll over the last year, except one, has shown that a majority of the british public would vote to remain if we had a new referendum, and mr johnson, with his 43% of the vote – only 1% more than mrs may achieved two years ago – takes that as a mandate to go forward with a very hard brexit. and make no mistake, he’s going for a hard brexit, because he has already gone back on a previous promise to say that the house of commons would vote on extending the transition period to allow time for negotiations. he’s already saying we will not extend; we will make it illegal to extend. he doesn’t want to negotiate a proper partnership or trade deal. his strategy in the negotiations seems to be ‘give me what i want or i’ll shoot myself in the head’. it’s not going to work. it’s going to lead to a disastrous brexit. and finally, madam president, may i endorse what guy verhofstadt said, that this parliament should not endorse any deal until the rights of citizens, both ways around, are secured. (applause)
the european council, which met at the end of the week, was a more important meeting on the future of europe. mr michel briefly mentioned brexit at the meeting at the weekend understandably so. but last night in our group meeting, the always excellent and courteous michel barnier gave us an outline of what is going to happen over the next 12 months. i think one thing was very clear from what mr. corbett said: that unless there's goodwill and cooperation across the table, the outcome could be dire. so i would appeal to mr johnson not to be putting arbitrary and unnecessary deadlines into the negotiations and say to him that getting brexit right is more important than getting brexit done, and i hope that can happen. also, i just want to mention briefly what president von der leyen mentioned about the mff. i hope all remaining member states will step up to the plate and give us a proper budget, and if not, as she said, we need to develop our own resources.
head of the task force for relations with the united kingdom. madam president, mr president of the european council, at the request of our president, mrs von der leyen, and as many of you have obviously raised the issue of brexit, i would like to say a few words on this subject in response to your speeches. first of all, i would like to point out, as many of you have, that this is the first time ever that our parliament has debated brexit knowing that it will really take place on 31 january, from now on. i say this with great respect, and also with great understanding. i echo the words of iratxe garcia pérez, dacian cioloș and ska keller, and those of many of you who have a great deal of sympathy for all those, many of you here and outside this chamber, who would have liked the united kingdom to remain in the union. but i also express respect for the british choice from the beginning, and our responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, our mission, the one i have been given, is precisely to respect the will expressed by a majority of british citizens, and thus to organise the orderly withdrawal in the interests of the citizens, in the interests of the economy on both sides, and in the interests of the future too, through a treaty which is now here, which you know well as we have in a way co-constructed it together. i would like to thank the brexit steering group and all the members who took part, in particular guy verhofstadt. now we are about to look further into the future and i remember what our president ursula von der leyen said here on 27 november last: 'whatever our future, the bonds and friendship between our peoples will remain unbreakable'. that is the line, ladies and gentlemen, for the times to come, and that is what will lead us to work in a respectful, ambitious way towards a very strong and strategic relationship with the united kingdom. this relationship will be based on an economic pillar, and we will work on it in particular with commissioner phil hogan and all the other commissioners concerned, under the authority of the president, and a strategic pillar, on which we will work with the highest priority with high representative josep borrell and other commissioners. the united kingdom will remain, as you said, a friend, an ally, a partner, and we must translate this alliance, this friendship, this partnership into new treaties. i would remind you that the framework for this future, very ambitious relationship is written very precisely in the last 36 pages of this document before you. and i want to remind you that this document, this political declaration, is a common one. every word counts, every word has been agreed by us and by boris johnson. again, every word counts. what is the limit to this ambition, ladies and gentlemen? two things. the first is time, the time we need to translate this ambition into treaties or texts. the second thing is, of course, the divergences that may arise between our interests and our objectives, in particular the answer that the united kingdom will give in the coming weeks to a question. the united kingdom is leaving the union, and we respect that choice. he's not leaving europe, obviously. does it want to move away from our regulatory model, and to what extent? that's the question being asked. it is the uk's response that will determine the level of our ambition. as of today, we have three projects to run together. the first is the conclusion of the ratification process of the withdrawal agreement. the second is the implementation of the agreement itself, in all its dimensions. this is not a small matter, both for the citizens whose rights are to be respected in this text, and also, may i remind you, madam president, i say this also to mr kelleher and to sean kelly and others in ireland and northern ireland, for peace and stability. the third area is that of the future, of renegotiation, in a limited time. we have heard the british prime minister say that he will not want to ask for an extension of the transition. this extension is possible, it will remain possible until 30 june by mutual agreement, which means that each of the two partners, the union and the united kingdom, can say yes or no, until 30 june. this time is limited, so it will not be possible, if i continue to be very frank with you, in this limited time, to do everything, but we will do everything possible. we can't do it all, but we will give it our all. so naturally, if we want to achieve, at the end of the road, a new relationship in all its dimensions, we will need to take more time and continue beyond the end of the transition, the end of 2020, to work with the british and to negotiate. i want to make one final commitment under the authority of president von der leyen and with the confidence of the president of the european council and yours. we will continue to work with the same method: transparency, openness, dialogue with all the commissioners concerned and with the commission services. i would just like to say one last word to mr michael heaver, who spoke very strongly earlier and told us: 'we are proud to be british'. of course we respect and understand that pride but, mr heaver, we are all proud to be patriots, all of us, and we have no lessons of patriotism to learn from you. (applause) i would like to thank the only thing i want to say is that to our patriotism, to our pride in being patriots, we add an extra dimension here, we believe that our patriotism is today, and will be tomorrow in the world as it comes, more solid, because we add the union of europeans and the common action of europeans.
president of the european council. madam president, madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, thank you for the various messages that have been sent, for the opinions that have been expressed. firstly, climate was the number one issue at this european summit last week. thank you for the encouragement that has been expressed; i am well aware of the work that still needs to be done and particularly the need to agree very quickly on the 2030 objectives in order to prepare for the next cop, particularly in glasgow. we will do so with the commission, taking into account the evaluations needed to continue progress on this subject. second point: yes, this is an important act that was put forward last week by the european council, because the decision is unanimous on the objective of climate neutrality by 2050, and it is only for its implementation that one european country considered that more time was needed. we will return specifically to this subject in june, within the european council. thirdly, we have opened the financing process because, to be credible and realistic, the question of financing is essential. we will continue this in the coming months, particularly, but not only, in the context of the debate on the next european budget. finally, and as a complementary point, which many have mentioned, i also believe that this strong position, supported by the european authorities - european green deal, climate neutrality by 2050 - gives the european authorities and institutions a clear mandate at international level, particularly in the context of next year's summits with china. advancing this agenda internationally is also part of the success, and i believe deeply that this decision is truly essential, because it creates the conditions to put europe in a position tomorrow to have champions for the green economy, which is good for prosperity, for stability, for development and for innovation as well. finally, look at how much impatience i have and how much i respect and hear about the way i have travelled in a few months. just a few months ago, at the sibiu summit - this was early 2019 - only 9 out of 27 european countries shared this 2050 climate neutrality goal. a few months later, it was unanimously agreed that this message was extremely strong. the second point is the question of the european budget. i share the view expressed by mr weber and other members of the european parliament: it is an extremely difficult task. that is why, long before last week's summit, i took a lot of time, mr president, to meet the various european leaders face to face, to understand the priorities, to understand the areas for negotiation and the areas for compromise. but i also count on the political consistency of all the political leaders, because i see here a clear line of strength and ambitions that are legitimate in terms of the capacity to act through the european budget. at the same time, i also see around the table of the european council european leaders, heads of state and prime ministers, each facing national parliaments composed of political majorities, with parties represented in this european parliament. i also hope that in the future you will be able to bring the debate to political consistency, whether it is addressed to national or european interlocutors, so that the same messages are conveyed by the political groups from which you have come to the electorate. finally, the third point: i do not want to avoid the question of malta and the rule of law. i'm going to be very clear on this extremely important subject. the rule of law is a cornerstone, a founding value of the european project. and the murder of a journalist is obviously first of all a tragedy for families, a tragedy for loved ones, a human tragedy. but beyond this human and personal tragedy for the families, it is a serious and serious attack on the freedom of the press, which is one of the foundations of the european project that unites us and brings us together. investigations are under way, which must be based on the principles of the rule of law, on the principles of the separation of powers. it is up to the european institutions, each in its own role and responsibility, to assume their responsibilities. the european parliament has already started a number of reflections and reasoning on the subject. i will not try to evade my responsibilities when it comes to defending the rule of law, and it is in this spirit that i also announced that i was willing to meet the family of this murdered journalist. (applause) finally, one more word on brexit: i would like to repeat, to say here again, that every time - and this started with the referendum, three years ago now - i have respected the positions expressed by the british people in the referendum. i regret this decision, but i respect it, because it was made by the british people. the european council last week - and michel barnier has just said it very clearly - got itself in line for the next steps. we know which direction we want to go, we know where we want to go, we know that transparency and unity will be essential to ensure that these negotiations are fair and respectful. we will protect and defend european interests, the level playing field, and the interest in preserving the integrity of the internal market. but i would, with great calm, with great quietness - this will always be my spirit - the gathering, say to those and those i have heard in this assembly who have once again used insults and insulting annoyances rather than arguments, that i will not allow myself to be intimidated, we will not allow ourselves to be intimidated by this spirit of fruitless controversy. we will be calm and determined to defend a strong, close relationship with britain for the future. finally, i would like to conclude by saying a few words to reiterate my conviction. ambition, confidence and common sense are, in my view, the guidelines which must govern the action of the institutions, without ever forgetting that each institution is there to carry the hopes and dreams of the european citizens and to ensure that this project which mobilizes us is a project bearing light for the future. (applause) i would like to thank
the debate is closed. the award of the sakharov prize will start shortly. (the sitting was suspended at 12h05) written statements (rule 171)
in writing. i would like to congratulate the commission on its efforts to reach agreement in the european council on the european green deal presented by the commission. europe has set itself the very ambitious goal of becoming a climate-neutral economy by 2050, which will require not only huge financial resources and structural reforms in a number of areas, but above all the political will of the member states to implement the very difficult but necessary decisions. this will be a rather difficult task to achieve, as the ongoing negotiations on the next multiannual financial perspective show. the negotiating package put forward by the finnish presidency is not satisfactory, and for some eu member states, such as lithuania, the eu aid is to be reduced by more than eur 2 billion compared to the current financial perspective, which is totally unacceptable. we will not accept a reduction in funding for social policy. the european parliament's position is being ignored and a worrying path is being taken to allocate €5.9 billion to the european child guarantee. the european parliament will not approve a budget that does not allocate sufficient funds to social policy priorities, as such cuts will hit the most vulnerable sections of society.
in writing. we celebrated the 10th anniversary of the treaty of lisbon in strasbourg. we are proud of this treaty which defends principles, values, human rights, the rule of law. solidarity is a strong principle of the treaty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i agree that in climate change matters the eu will become a leader. but we must also be leaders in matters of principles and values and in defending the sovereignty of the eu member countries. the eu must send a strong message that it will respond by all means and defend the sovereignty of its member countries against external threats. if turkey does not understand the words, let us proceed to freeze the customs union between turkey and the eu. the us senate has not been deterred by turkey's threats to recognize the armenian genocide and will move to sanctions. the eu will be a true leader if it shows itself to be a leader in principles and values towards transit countries like turkey. can the eu say 'yes' here and now, and not just 'no' to turkey, but can it stress to turkey that if it continues its violations in cyprus and greece, it will find the eu united against it and thus demonstrate in practice its solidarity with all the member states?
the european council meeting has highlighted the crisis and contradictions in which european capitalist integration is mired. they proclaim a bold ambition in the environmental field. they talk about instruments, incentives, support and investments. but they have on the table a negotiating framework for the multiannual financial framework, with figures, which cuts the funds for 'cohesion', harms countries with greater difficulties, such as portugal, and directs resources to the great powers, fuelling a militaristic and security drift. in the euro area, the 'budgetary capacity' that was said to promote convergence is, after all, just another tool to promote the 'competitiveness' of the richest, the biggest beneficiaries of the euro and the single market, at the expense of more damage to the same old. they are coming up with a 'conference on the future of europe' only to make it clear that this is yet another staged attempt to legitimise policies already decided upon, which are increasingly discredited in the eyes of the workers and peoples of europe.
in writing. mr president, after the british elections last week, it seems clear that brexit will take place at the end of january. although the election result clarified the situation in this respect, uncertainty remains. as we know, the post-brexit transition period will only last until the end of 2020, after which the future relationship between the eu and the uk will be fully open. at least for now, the british prime minister has taken the position that the transitional period is not to be extended beyond that. so next year will be a very busy year for negotiations, and i wish our excellent chief negotiator, michel barnier, who has a great task ahead of him, all the best. i personally think it is important that we reach an agreement which will create as few obstacles as possible to the movement of people, goods and services. i believe it is important that we continue to work closely together, particularly in the fields of education, research and security cooperation. of course, this all depends on the kind of agreement we reach. it is clear that outside the eu, the uk cannot enjoy the same benefits as it does as a member of the eu. there's more than just raisins in a bottle. both sides will suffer from the separation, but the agreements should seek to mitigate the damage to people's lives, businesses, european competitiveness and security.
in writing. i have many doubts about the effectiveness of the green new deal, which was presented in the european parliament by ursula von der leyen in recent days. it seems to me to be a frontal operation, with an extremely ideological approach, without a clear political will to solve the problem, which should not be considered only at european level. the eu should do everything it can to make it easier for businesses to grow and work, rather than imposing more and more hard-to-enforce rules, thus undermining the competitiveness of our businesses and putting thousands of jobs at risk. the council took note of the results in the united kingdom. after doing everything possible over the past three years to prevent both the vote and the implementation of brexit, the eu must finally face facts and negotiate a trade agreement quickly, in the name of fair cooperation. the british people have sent a strong signal to this eu that it is not working. the conclusion of the brexit affair breaks the dogma and myth of the eu as untouchable and irreversible.
the european council rejected the proposal for the 2021/2027 multiannual financial framework submitted by the finnish presidency and instructed the president of the council to pursue bilateral contacts leading to the formulation of a proposal that can be accepted by all member states. this decision was inevitable. the finnish presidency's proposal was incompatible with the ambition shown in other items on the council's agenda, namely the ambition to achieve an ecological pact leading to an accelerated process of decarbonisation, achieving carbon neutrality by 2050, in the framework of a just transition, leaving no territory behind, and of maintaining the effort in cohesion and proximity policies. i would also stress the european council's commitment to an orderly withdrawal of the united kingdom on the basis of the withdrawal agreement, calling for its swift adoption and ratification. finally, with regard to the euro summit, i would stress the will to continue work on consolidating the new budgetary instrument for convergence and stability (the european stability mechanism), integrating its debate into the process of strategic consensus led by the president of the council.
i am pleased to welcome jewher ilham, daughter of ilham tohti, who came here today to represent her father at the 2019 sakharov prize for freedom of thought award ceremony. i would like to greet all the finalists of the sakharov prize, who this year have been introduced by our members of parliament and who are present with us in the diplomatic gallery. we have with us the brazilian representatives of the struggle for human rights, environmental protection and the conservation of the amazon rainforest: - monica benicio representing her late partner marielle franco, who was murdered in march 2018 - claudelice silva dos santos - patxon metuktire representing her grandfather capo raonie for the restorers, we have a group of young kenyan students who have decided to use technology for women's empowerment and to fight against female genital mutilation: - stacy owino- synthia otieno- purity ouma - macrine onyangoon behalf of the european parliament, i thank you for being with us today and we congratulate you on your courage and your strong commitment and of course we will continue to follow your activities. before we go any further, i would like to invite you to watch a short video about this year's winner, dr ilham tohti. (video is shown) ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, we are awarding the sakharov prize for freedom of thought to professor ilham tohti, who cannot be here with us because he has been in prison since 2014. his struggle, for which he is still paying a heavy price, must be an inspiration to us. i would like to express my sincere thanks to his daughter, mrs jewher ilham, who had the courage to come here on his behalf. it is here, in the heart of european democracy, that we can hear, and above all listen to, the voices of those who cannot do so in their own countries. the sakharov prize is a means by which this parliament can become the voice of freedom of thought and speech, a freedom which is extremely precious and for many, and for too many, still dangerous. i am particularly proud and honoured to be able to present this award to professor ilham. its struggle highlights the values of dialogue, mutual understanding, moderation, reconciliation and cultural diversity. these are the same values that underpin the european project. ilham tohti is an economics professor, but he is also a voice that calls us all to moderation and reconciliation. he has been committed to the defense of the rights of the uyghur minority in china, with the hope of improving their living conditions. the uighurs are constantly victims of persecution of all kinds: physical, cultural, religious, economic and political. since april 2017, over one million innocent uighurs have been arbitrarily detained in a network of prison camps, where they are forced to renounce their ethnic identity and religious beliefs. however, this is a great people, with a deep identity and a history of over a thousand years, during which it has been able to develop a culture that deserves to be preserved. ilham tohti, through his activism, has managed to give them a voice. although he is being held in prison, his voice is echoing today along with that of his daughter and many other uyghurs. for over twenty years, he has worked tirelessly to promote dialogue and mutual understanding between the uyghurs and other chinese peoples. nevertheless, he was sentenced to life imprisonment on charges of "separatism". the european parliament calls for his immediate and unconditional release. his struggle and all the suffering he endured remind us that we must fight for freedom of thought. it is a fundamental right that is sometimes won at the cost of human life. i would also like to remind you, of course, of the previous winners of the sakharov prize, who are currently in prison and are being persecuted for defending human rights and fundamental freedoms, and sometimes even for the simple fact of winning the sakharov prize: nasrin sotoudeh, raif badaw, the "damas de blanco", various members of the democratic opposition in venezuela and asmaa mahfouz. parliament therefore urges the high representative to take all necessary measures, in his contacts with the countries concerned, to secure the release and the cessation of the persecution of the sakharov prize winners. this call is extended to the member states of the european union and to our governments to strive, in their bilateral relations, to transmit the common values of the european union and to defend human rights and freedoms. today should be a day of celebration to celebrate freedom of thought and instead it's a sad day. once again, this chair is empty, because in the world we live in, being free to think doesn't always mean being really free. in the hope that ilham tothi will be released and come to visit us, our thoughts are with him, his family and all those who are unfortunately in prison with him. his daughter, jewher ilham, has the honour to be here on his behalf and i give the floor to you.
representing her father ilham tohti, winner of the sakharov prize. – assalamu alaykum, peace be upon you. i want to thank the european parliament and all those who made it possible for my father to receive the sakharov prize for freedom of thought. you have highlighted not only my father’s work and the persecution he has endured because of it, but you bring to the attention of the european union and the rest of the world the plight of over one million uyghurs who have been forcibly detained in concentration camps in the uyghur region. thank you. rehmet. it is an honour to be at the european parliament today to accept the sakharov prize on behalf of my father. i am grateful for the opportunity to tell his story, because he cannot tell it himself. to be honest with you, i don’t know where my father is. 2017 was the last time my family received word about him. at that time, he was being held in urumqi first prison. i have not seen my father since we were separated at the beijing airport in 2013 – we were on our way to indiana university, where my father was invited as a visiting scholar. unfortunately, he never made it to the us. on that day, we were pulled out of the security line. i was given the choice of boarding the plane and flying to the us, or staying with my father. my father insisted that i continue. he said to me, ‘don’t cry, don’t let them think uyghur girls are weak.’ i went, and because of his encouragement, i am here in strasbourg with all of you. but while i travelled on, he was detained, beaten, questioned, and now carries a life sentence at some undisclosed location. i will never be able to travel back to china and will likely never meet my family again. it is hard to believe that my father still physically resembles now the man i knew as a child. the man who worked at my bedroom desk in pyjamas after i complained he spent more time on his website ‘uyghur biz’ than with me. when there was a problem, my father always had a solution. he believed that when there was a problem, you need to fix it, just like when there is a hole in a fabric, you need to sew it. an unresolved problem, he thought, will lead to a bigger problem. and so, he moved his laptop into my room and he worked at my desk while i sat on my bed doing homework. this way, we could be together. sometimes, he would forget how late it was, lost in his work until 4 in the morning. i would go in and out of sleep to the click of his fingers on the computer. i was a teenager then, with little understanding of why my father would give up his profitable business career and our trips to the nujie halal meat market for the life that landed him in prison. there was a time when we could afford to buy a whole halal lamb or an entire sheep and share it with the neighbourhood. after my father committed himself to advocating for the rights of uyghurs, halal lamb grew more scarce in our household. my father’s wealth went to supporting the uyghur community – from poor uyghur mothers to homeless children. when he purchased a server in the united states to secure his website ‘uyghur biz’, there was no money left for lamb. my father was not afraid of being poor as long as he could devote himself to the cause that came to define his life: fostering peaceful dialogue and understanding between the han chinese and the uyghurs living in the western part of china. for him, the problem was clear. uyghurs were being denied basic rights: the right to believe what we believe; the right to worship the way we want to worship; the right to think what we want to think. for him, the solution was simple: to engage with the chinese government in conversation about working with uyghur people in a peaceful, non-violent and instructive way. the chinese government was not interested in conversations about working on the tensions building in the uyghur region with a uyghur scholar like my father – a man who was committed to peaceful resolution where the han and the uyghurs could live in harmony. instead, they labelled him a separatist and locked him in solitary confinement for empowering the very people the chinese government wanted to control. today, there is no freedom for uyghurs in china – you know this – not at school, not in public, not even in private homes. my father, like most uyghurs, has been labelled a violent extremist, with a diseases that needs to be cured and a mind that need to be washed. it is under this false label of extremism that the government has put one million people – probably even more – into concentration camps, where uyghurs are forced to give up their religion, language and culture, where forced labour is widespread and people are tortured. some have died. history repeats itself. it didn’t end well before; it won’t end well now. china labels them as ‘re-education centres’. sorry, but i don’t buy this term, and you shouldn’t either. ‘extremism’ is the kind of language the chinese government uses to justify tearing families apart, controlling and monitoring every move of the uyghurs inside and outside of china, and putting so many innocent people into camps. even in my home in washington dc, my phone and computer are often hacked. people ask me, am i scared? yes, i am afraid. sometimes i wake up in a cold sweat. sometimes i worry that my speaking out will bring harm to my family living in china. even speaking to you today makes me nervous. i’m sure my father was afraid, too. but when he identified a problem, he overcame his fear by working towards a solution, no matter what the cost. i’m here today because i want to support my father. so i ask you in this room and those who are listening: do you see a problem with the way the chinese government is treating uyghur people? if you see a problem, please work towards a solution. work from your place of influence. to the members of parliament: use your laws to hold chinese government officials accountable. to businesses: don’t be complicit in the chinese government’s persecution of the uyghur people. to the scholars: continue your research to help expose these atrocities. to the ngos: keep up the good work and hang in there. (applause) to students: educate yourselves and never stop your pursuit of the truth and your fight for justice. this is not about fighting china. this is about protecting human rights. a special mention goes to my father’s students who are serving years in prison for supporting him and his projects. these brave people, as well as my uyghur brothers and sisters, are not alone in the camps. kazakh, kyrgyz, uzbek people are jailed in concentration camps simply for being themselves. human rights lawyers and human rights defenders are held in prison simply for protecting the rights of other human beings. elsewhere in china, tibetans and hong kongers, the chinese christians continue to struggle to protect their identity and their basic human rights. in the spirit of my father’s work to promote a world of respect and understanding among different communities, i would like to bring to your attention the other finalists. although they have not received the prize, their dedication and work deserve equal attention. therefore, i ask you to discover more about the restorers, who are doing amazing work in improving the lives of women in kenya and elsewhere in africa. in brazil, the causes of the late marielle franco, chief raoni and ms silva dos santos must be supported for their tireless work on preserving the amazon rainforest and the rights of marginalised indigenous people who live in the region. (applause)these incredible people need to be heard. these people need your immediate support. finally, while i don’t know where my father is, i believe he is alive. i believe that his spirit, as captured in the sakharov prize, honours the father i know who moved his computer into my bedroom when i needed him. now, the uyghur people need you. thank you very much. (loud and sustained applause)(the sitting was suspended at 12.35)
mr. chairman, i take the floor on the conduct of business under rule 195 of the rules of procedure, as mr. philip lambert did yesterday. two of my colleagues, mr. ismail ertuğ and mrs. karima delli, were offended by my words. they want an apology. it's all right. if anyone feels offended, there's my apology. i am a bulgarian with roots in today's macedonia, serbia, even turkey and i wouldn't be offended if someone called me a bulgarian from macedonia, but since mr. ertug and mrs. delli felt offended and want an apology, they have it. but there is no apology for the way the mobility package was handled. there's no excuse for a green policy to drive thousands of empty trucks that pollute the air. the socialists are taking jobs away from eastern europe and the europeans are giving business to turkey and russia. that deserves an apology, too.
mr president, just to correct the record: you have the right to disagree with the mobility package, which does not correspond to your position. but in no way, as chairman of the committee on transport in this parliament, with my colleague ismail ertug, will i tolerate your comments on my origins, for two reasons: firstly, you are spreading racist messages, and secondly, i will never allow myself to be fooled, i will stand up so that such comments are never trivialised in this institution. (applause) i would like to thank
the agenda shall be closed at the end of the voting. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
we now move on to the election of the european ombudsman in the second round, in accordance with rule 231 of the rules of procedure. let us try it out now, but of course the chamber is full, but we have to do it in accordance with the rules of procedure to indicate attendance, because we need a qualified presence. i announce that the candidacy of mr. nils muižnieks has been withdrawn and the candidates are: giuseppe fortunato, julia laffranque, emily o'reilly and cecilia wikström. let's try it out. the vote is open. the vote is closed. we have, of course, a full house and therefore the necessary participants for this election. i would remind you that the vote is by secret ballot, and that, in accordance with rule 231 (6), the candidate must obtain a majority of the votes cast in order to be elected. abstentions shall not be considered as valid votes. since, in accordance with rule 231 (7), i must ascertain the presence of members before i declare the sitting open, we have checked and there are at least 374 members present. the vote on the request for an early vote will be taken at the end of the debate. the number of members present is sufficient and we can therefore proceed to the election. information on the elections was distributed electronically, the same procedure as yesterday. stand on the name of the candidate of your choice and express your preference by pressing the "+" button once. we are ready, the vote is open. everyone has voted. the vote is closed. number of voters: 694 abstentions from voting: 56 and the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. 638 and absolute majority of votes: 320the following received votes: i'm not sure. i'm not sure i'm ready to go. 58 wikström: this is a very good idea. 38none of them got enough votes to get elected. since no candidate has obtained a majority, we must now proceed to the third vote between the two leading candidates, mrs o'reilly and mrs laffranque. we'll give you time to load the names into our computers. there, we're ready. then to the laffranque ballot, o'reilly. the vote is open. the vote is closed. voting members: 694 white papers 94 and the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. 600 and they got votes: i'm not sure. i 'm not gonna let you do this . 280 and i therefore proclaim mrs emily o'reilly elected european ombudsman on the basis of the third ballot. and i congratulate you on your election. following the outcome of the vote, i will be signing parliament's decision on the election of the european ombudsman.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to wholeheartedly congratulate ms o’reilly on her election today. ms o’reilly, it is a very impressive sign of trust and confidence of the european parliament and a recognition of your excellent work over the last number of years. the ombudsman has become a very important pillar of the eu’s institutional architecture since its first election in 1995, and the ombudsman’s role as a facilitator and a mediator for the citizens and the administration deserves all our full support. we have been working together in the commission over recent years to make the eu administration better, more transparent and more efficient. actually too few people realise this, but only 5% of the cases end up with a finding of maladministration, and in more than 70% of the cases the commission follows the proposals of the ombudsman. this shows a constructive spirit and a constructive relationship of the institutions with the ombudsman in the day—to—day work. the commission will continue to be a constructive partner with an open mind and, as before, we will deal with your proposals for solutions, suggestions for improvements and recommendations in a constructive spirit and with the shared objective of finding solutions that match the citizens’ and the public interest. the ombudsman and the commission have a common interest in getting the message across that the european union and the institutions care about people’s needs and problems and do everything we can to address these problems in a concrete way. so ms o’reilly, once again, let me wish you all the best in your new mandate, and the commission and i personally look forward to our future cooperation.
i thank the commissioner and of course i wish the new european ombudsman a very successful job.
no, the text was adopted earlier, so this vote was not taken.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, we would propose an oral amendment deleting recital w, because it’s referring to a report that we wanted to be made public but it was made public yesterday. so it’s redundant, in our view.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the rules of procedure. you can't just walk away from a check when it's called. that's not how we vote here.
the vote was so clear that the objection had no plausibility. if i wasn't sure myself, i'd have it repeated. after the vote on recital q:
if you quote the rules of procedure, i have to quote them too: it is the president's decision.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, based on rule 180(4) of our rules of procedure, i would like to request, on behalf of the verts/ale group, an oral amendment to our amendments numbers 6, 7 and 9 to correct an error. these amendments should only insert the qualifier ‘anonymised’ and not the words ‘or pseudonymised’. so, in other words, i request that the words ‘or pseudonymised’ be deleted from our amendments. this oral amendment affects amendment 6 twice and amendments 7 and 9 once respectively. it is needed to effectively preserve the confidentiality of medical conditions and to reflect the outcome of the commission’s consultation on this point.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, in this case, based on rule 180(5) of our rules of procedure, on behalf of my group i would like to withdraw our amendments 6, 7 and 9.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against this resolution because it is not homophobic to favour the traditional family of father, mother and children. but above all, i voted against this resolution because the european parliament has shown today once again what a wonderful showcase it is. the rights of homosexuals are not strengthened by holding symbolic resolutions and sunday speeches in the european parliament, but by consistently denouncing those who trample on the rights of homosexuals and who like to hang them from building towers. it is not the european peoples who deny homosexuals their rights, it is the culture that we import into europe by the millions and that here lives out its murderous homophobia. this has to stop if we are serious about gay rights!
mr president, while i welcome the initiative to begin discussions in this new parliament on this complicated issue, unfortunately i was not able to support this resolution. this is an extremely complex issue, evidenced by the continuing deliberations at oecd level to find a solution for the fair taxing of digital companies. let me be clear: i welcome efforts towards a fairer tax system in all eu member states. companies, like you or i, must pay their fair dues. however, we must also recognise that many large digital companies are international by nature. for this reason, i believe we must support the ongoing efforts at global, oecd level to find a solution to this problem by the end of next year. unilateral action by the eu, as proposed in this resolution, could damage our global competitiveness and even be perceived as an attack on us companies, potentially provoking retaliation. still, i believe a continued, constructive debate on this issue will be important over the next 12 months.
mr president, this morning we discussed, in the presence of president von der leyen and president-in-office charles michel, the conclusions of the council on the tenth anniversary of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. and some speakers asked why the council had not considered the situation in malta and others replied: why has it not considered the situation in hungary, on which this parliament adopted its resolution, or in poland, where the commission took the initiative with the support of the european parliament? the only way for the council to do its job - because parliament has done its job - is to adopt at once the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights framework which has been adopted in the libe committee and brought to the european parliament's plenary, so that it establishes an objective, regular, regular mechanism and, above all, involves all the member states in the respect of the rule of law. i would add that it is intolerable that, at a time of budgetary constraints which threaten traditional policies, including cohesion policy and regional policy, european funds should be made available to states which do not respect the rule of law.
(start of speech with microphone off) ...mr. president, i am shocked by the latest news from malta, corruption, golden visas, accounts in tax havens. the political situation there is apparently much worse than we imagined. to lead the murder of a journalist to the prime minister's office is unheard of and any responsible politician would resign immediately in such circumstances. two years ago, my colleagues, some socialists, even tried to excuse the maltese government, and those on the other side were competing over how to condemn governments that don't belong to their political option. they have double standards, double morals. but corruption, political assassinations, the broken rule of law, it happens elsewhere. i therefore call on the commission to establish all possible bases for a fair assessment of the state of the rule of law on the basis of all the same criteria for all.
mr president, i supported this resolution because i believe that the murder of a journalist in the context of european values in one of the countries of the european union is such an extraordinary, enormous crime that it is good that the european institutions are also dealing with it. we are not an investigative body, of course, and we cannot interfere with the independent functioning of the judiciary in malta. on the other hand, the foundations of the rule of law, the values of the rule of law are european values and it is our moral duty at this moment to make it clear that we are exercising some control over how the political representation, but mainly the judicial authorities in malta, will investigate the whole thing. we will do everything possible to ensure that these authorities act effectively, that the perpetrators of this heinous murder, this heinous crime, are investigated and that these perpetrators are punished, including, where appropriate, those from the political circle who may have had information and knowledge of this heinous crime.
mr president, i strongly supported this text, which raises even more alarm bells about the extremely worrying issue of pollinators in europe and, more broadly, in the world. the text calls for a tightening of the commission's european initiative of 1 june 2018 on pollinators, because the current situation has become catastrophic. the mass disappearance of pollinating insects, both domestic and wild, is a threat to the survival of our societies, our ecosystems and biodiversity in general. agricultural production is largely dependent on pollination, a free service that bees provide us. if these were to disappear, it would be whole sectors of our economy that would collapse, our agriculture in the first place. for example, china, where entire regions have lost their insects, is forced to pollinate entire fields by hand. it is therefore urgent to go beyond this text, to look at the heart of our collective responsibility and to support all solutions that will guarantee the survival of pollinators.
mr president, i will not repeat what i said to mrs mcguinness during the debate on this report. i just want to thank you for this report and express my appreciation that the european parliament has so strongly supported the report which makes concrete proposals to deal with the pollen and bee situation. we all agree that something needs to be done, because it's not just about biodiversity, but it's basically about farmers being able to keep working, because a declining pollinator population means a declining crop. so what we want to do is to get farmers not to be seen as pests, but to get support to be able to manage the landscape well, and also to have the pesticides that are being removed that they can't work with, be replaced with other, effective products.
as s&d shadow rapporteur, and therefore on behalf of s&d as the guardian of the subject, i would like to thank the european parliament's plenary session for supporting our proposal and for adopting the resolution on the eu pollinators initiative by a large majority. in yesterday's debate i argued at length why this report should be voted on, and it is clear that parliament has basically looked at the matter from the point of view of legislation and of stimulating the work of the commission. now, as a sort of closing statement, let me just say that we need to take this new green deal seriously. but not just here in parliament, but as a private person. we have to change our habits, we have to change our routine, our daily activities. and that's true for pollinators, insects, bees, and so on. that's why i, as a private citizen and as a decision-maker, supported the motion.
mr president, bees and their welfare are undoubtedly a matter of particular importance not only to me and my country bulgaria, but also to europe. that is why i supported the motion for a resolution on the european union initiative on pollinators. the ban on pesticides that are harmful to bees and pollinators is certainly important. but we must have a realistic approach and realistic expectations. conclusions that are not based on scientific fact don't help anyone. some of the proposals in that resolution were too extreme and unfounded. protecting the beekeeping sector and pollinators certainly doesn't go through declaring war on other farmers who use insecticides and pesticides legally. there are also safe pesticides on the market that can be used sensibly and that, according to established regulations, do not harm pollinators. there needs to be a balanced approach that protects pollinators and the beekeeping industry on the one hand, but also allows farmers to do their job.
mr. chairman, i'm just going to say what my colleagues said. at first glance, this seems to be a subject that is outside the purview of the european institutions, the european parliament. it's a subtle subject, but it's extremely serious in terms of its impact. this means that it is good that the european parliament is also dealing with the pollinators issue. we are addressing the potential disaster that could occur for agriculture in the european union countries, that the number of bees and other pollinators could continue to decline rapidly, and that this could really have large and far-reaching economic impacts. i supported this report, let us look for a way of doing things which will not lead to the elimination of european agriculture, which will not weaken its competitiveness, but which will at the same time allow the number of pollinators to be kept down.
mr president, it is clear that the digitisation of healthcare has become an inevitable reality. technological advances, the deepening of our knowledge of our human body and how it works, have reached such a level that the next revolution can only be digital. the increasing amounts involved - almost 10% of the european union's gdp - demonstrate this: it is thus a crucial issue. this resolution, which we fully support, underlines the paradoxical challenge of data collection in an evolved world where collecting as much information as possible for more research is a necessity. it is important to put safeguards in place; data must be anonymised while making it easier to access and, at the same time, protect it. let us not forget that health is still a royal prerogative. the second challenge is empowering patients and doctors. this digitisation, this facilitation of health care, must not make us forget that all technological advances will in no way replace a doctor who is listening. all possible databases will not erase the uniqueness of the individual.
mr. chairman, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that digitization will certainly improve health care, accessibility, efficiency and is one of the solutions to the shortage of health personnel. these problems will become even greater as the population ages. modern technology can even partially replace the presence of a doctor. in today's age, when the active part of the population in particular prefers the option of e-health, it is certainly a way forward. but we have to remember the older generation and the people who don't know how to work with digital technologies or don't have a connection. therefore, the availability and equipment and training of staff should be kept in mind when implementing these ehealth services. at the same time, i want to emphasize that the relationship between the patient and the doctor must never be disturbed.
mr president i have sat in these benches for five years, and i have sadly found that very little is said at european level about the health care of european citizens. i know that we have left this question, this organisation, to the governments of the member states, but we cannot tolerate any longer, i think it is intolerable, that the state of health, the quality of life, the prospects of a person depend on the member state in which he was born. it is unacceptable that differences in the standard and quality of health care have developed which create incomparably different situations for a western european or an eastern european, for example, in my member state, my country, hungary. that is why i am undertaking to create a european minimum health service programme. we need to have concrete standards to ensure that every european citizen has access to the same quality of healthcare in the future. i'm waiting for your support.
mr president, i supported this resolution. there’s no doubt in my mind that technology, digital development and better use of data can add real value and help improve all parts of the health and care system at a national level, at a european level, and indeed at a local level as well. however, we have to be cautious with this and we have to ensure the strongest possible safeguards and protections of some of that data, particularly people’s individual healthcare data, which – when aggregated to a population level – can help the development of new health technologies, new treatments, and indeed the strengthening of our health systems. we have to be particularly cautious in how we think about that data becoming a commercial product. we have to have the right safeguards and protections in place to protect this data.
the next item is the topical debate (rule 162) on compatibility between the current eu-mercosur free trade agreement and the commission’s proposal for a european green deal (2019/2976(rsp)). i should like to inform members that for this debate there is no catch-the-eye procedure and that no blue cards will be accepted.
the green group is also in favour of the proposal. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for environmentalists, having the green deal at the heart of the european agenda is excellent news, it is a great success. this is a great success for the scientists who have been warning us for years. it is a great success for citizens who are mobilizing, for businesses who are starting to act. of course, it is also a success for the environmentalists, through the european elections. it is also a success for the world's youth who are mobilizing on these issues and calling for action. it is also an incredible opportunity, an opportunity for europe to have a shared project, a common horizon, to put our public policies at the service of technological, social and democratic innovation, at the service of the relocation of the economy, the creation of sustainable jobs in all our territories, more democracy. it is also an opportunity for our fellow europeans to regain control of their lives, to regain control of their food, their transport, their housing, their energy, while our societies are so divided, so fractured today. a promise is strong, and the stronger the promise, the less likely it is to be broken. the green deal cannot be a relabelling of the status quo, it cannot be just a little more, just a little better, it cannot be the same budget reallocated or relabelled. we need deep transformations; we need breaks. today we need public investment of 1% of european gdp each year. we have saved the banks, we can save the climate, we can save lives, especially if it creates jobs and revives the european economy. so if the green pact is about saving the climate, saving life, revitalizing our economy, creating jobs, then the agreement with mercosur cannot be signed. the agreement with mercosur should not even be considered, we all know that, we have discussed it. deforestation in brazil has doubled this year under bolsonaro. we know how much this president attacks human rights every day, whether it is women's rights, the freedoms of activists, indigenous peoples or homosexuals. we cannot, in the name of european values, in the name of the climate, in the name of life, go towards this agreement. the agreement with mercosur, if we sum it up, is to export german cars to import beef and soybeans. this cannot be the europe of the green pact, because this europe is a europe that contributes to the globalisation of junk food, the globalisation of animal suffering, the globalisation of deforestation, the globalisation of climate change and the globalisation of the disappearance of farmers in the mercosur countries and in europe. we know, our agricultural model depends on imported plant protein. each year, the equivalent of the area of germany is imported in vegetable protein. so we must not simply stop these negotiations with mercosur, we must review our common agricultural policy and the version, the proposal that you made as commissioner for agriculture, mr hogan, cannot correspond to the green pact for europe. more intensive livestock farming, fewer farmers, more and more concentration and pesticides - this cannot be the impact of a green europe. let us change the cap and let us change our trade policy; it's necessary. the green deal can be that great opportunity for europe. mrs von der leyen said this morning: 'we must listen to the european citizens, listen to them, they do not want mercosur, they want us to act with ambition and concrete actions on climate, biodiversity and democracy.'
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, the topical debate proposed is one of great relevance, as it comes only a week after the presentation by the commission of its proposal for a european green deal. there can be no doubt that we face immense climate and environmental challenges. europe needs to play its part in responding to these. if we do not, generations to come will question why we did not act decisively. the status quo is not an option. the eu needs to take the lead and work collectively to transform our economy and societies in order to put them on a more sustainable path. i will leave it to the commission to describe its policy proposals in more detail. the council has not had time to discuss them, and it would be premature for me to take a position at this early stage. i can only say that the council will engage constructively in examining the proposed policies and measures needed to achieve the european green deal. the green deal strategy cuts across almost every policy sector and will require careful consideration and coordination. against this background, i would like to focus my comments today on the mercosur trade agreement. i’m sure that many members of this house feel very strongly about the trade deal reached with mercosur. i know that you have discussed it – for instance, recently, following the forest fires which have been ravaging the amazon region. this is, indeed, deeply worrying for us all. just like here in the european parliament, the discussion in the council on the eu—mercosur agreement is still at an early stage. it is clear that sufficient time will be needed for a comprehensive examination of the negotiated agreement. concerns that the trade agreement with mercosur should be sustainable, also from the point of view of our green agenda, are fully understandable. what trade agreements can contribute to this objective is to export eu standards and sustainability goals to third countries. they can be a vehicle to convince others to implement ambitious environmental and climate policies and form part of a global response to climate change. millions of jobs in the eu, as well as people’s livelihoods, depend on trade. we need to make sure that trade can take place, whilst ensuring that it supports sustainable development and the eu’s climate goals and contributes to a sustainable future. i would like to recall that the mercosur agreement contains a robust trade and sustainable development chapter. this lives up to the highest standards, comparable to those in other modern agreements, such as the free trade agreement with japan or the trade part of the modernised global agreement with mexico. the mercosur agreement contains a specific article on climate change, committing the parties to effectively implement the paris agreement. there were also commitments on fighting deforestation. private—sector initiatives strengthened these commitments, for example not to source meat from farms in recently deforested areas. the trade and sustainable development chapter includes commitments regarding the sustainable management of forests. it safeguards relevant initiatives on sustainable agriculture. this includes eu private—sector actions on zero—deforestation supply chains and producer—led initiatives, such as the soy moratorium in brazil to limit the expansion of soy plantations in forest land. the trade and sustainable development chapter also includes thematic articles on trade—related aspects of natural resources, such as biodiversity, forests and fisheries, including combating illegal logging. the agreement provides a platform to actively engage with mercosur countries on sustainable development issues. the agreement lists a number of areas of potential cooperation with a view to ensuring that trade supports the sustainability agenda. it also offers civil society organisations an active role to overview the implementation of the agreement, including any environmental concerns. finally, the trade and sustainable development chapter is fully legally binding and enforceable. it is subject to a specific dispute settlement procedure, under which a complaint concerning non—compliance is first considered in formal government consultations. if the situation is not resolved, then an independent panel of experts can be requested to examine the matter and make recommendations. the report and recommendations must be made public so that they can be followed up by stakeholders, as well as by the relevant institutions of the parties. i know that many of you will strive for a stronger enforcement mechanism – even with sanctions. this matter has been discussed in the parliament as well as in the council. on this basis, the commission unveiled a 15—point plan to make the eu sustainable development chapters more robust and effective. as shown in the bilateral dispute settlement case of korea, these are not just empty words. what was obtained from mercosur in terms of environmental and sustainability commitments is the outcome of very long and arduous negotiations. these commitments are a challenge for the mercosur countries, but one they are ready to assume. we can be confident that an agreement with mercosur that contributes to sustainable trade with the region, including a binding commitment by the mercosur countries to implement the paris climate deal, will provide the eu with the necessary leverage to pursue our ambitious climate and sustainability goals. the recent forest fires in the amazon are representative of the sustainability challenges facing mercosur, but i am convinced that it is only through working with mercosur that we can get the change and global transformation we so much want to see.
member of the commission. – madam president, i’m pleased to have the opportunity to contribute to this debate and i welcome the opportunity to participate in a discussion which brings together a central plank of the von der leyen commission, the european green deal, and a key element of our international trade policy, the eu-mercosur agreement. the european green deal, which president von der leyen presented to this house last week, is, as she said, the eu’s new growth strategy. it’s an opportunity to improve the health and wellbeing of our people and our planet by transforming our economic model. it sets out an ambitious roadmap for the eu to become climate neutral by 2050, cutting emissions, restoring the health of our natural environment, protecting our wildlife, creating new economic opportunities and improving the quality of life of our people. this will require important changes to our economy, our energy mix, our industrial processes, our production and consumption, and it is clear that our trade policy will have to play its part. we will ensure this is done at the multilateral, bilateral and unilateral level, coherent with our existing international agreements in the wto and in our bilateral agreements, such as the eu-mercosur association agreement. i believe that this agreement can contribute to achieving the goals of the green deal in a number of ways, and i say this as somebody who has been involved in the negotiations. as is the case with the recent eu trade agreements, it will include a ‘trade and sustainable development’ chapter. this chapter includes a legally-binding commitment to effectively implementing the paris agreement. this means that we will be able to engage with brazil, as well as with the other mercosur countries, on what they have pledged to achieve by 2030 under the paris agreement. that was not the case before the agreement was signed. this covers pledges from brazil to achieve zero illegal deforestation in the brazilian amazon, to restore and reforest 12 million hectares of forests, and to curb illegal and unsustainable forest practices. this is what is in the agreement. the trade and sustainability chapter (tsd) also addresses issues such as biodiversity, circular economy, waste management and responsible business conduct in supply chains. all of these are important areas and important aspects of the green deal. the tsd chapter recognises the right of both sides to take measures and base legislation on the precautionary principle. this is the first time that this has been explicitly stated in an agreement with a major agricultural exporting block. the agreement will therefore help keep our consumers healthy, but it also will safeguard our high environmental and food-safety standards. the ‘political and cooperation’ part of the agreement foresees cooperation based on the un framework convention on climate change and the paris agreement. in order to work together towards the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, you will also find in this part of the agreement provisions for dialogue and cooperation on issues such as oceans, seas and energy. this gives us the tools that the european union does not possess today in its relationship with the mercosur countries. the agreement with mercosur contributes to the green deal objectives in other ways as well. many green goods will be liberalised. it will be easier to provide environmental services. the agreement will help lower the carbon footprint of production in mercosur. the agreement will encourage green public procurement and sustainable procurement practices. strong ipr rules and improved enforcement frameworks will facilitate a more extended use of environmental and green technology transfer. let us also not forget the benefits from enhanced civil society involvement in the implementation of the whole agreement, including the tsd implementation. this allows civil society in third countries to hold their governments to account, just as they do in the european union. as always, implementation is key, and we need to take a more assertive trade and sustainable stance in our tsd policy, in line with the 15-point action plan for tsd implementation which was agreed in february 2018. i can assure this parliament that the commission will remain vigilant in this work and in this task. as you know, the commission will soon appoint a chief trade enforcement officer. this will be an important new role, not only for market access issues but, equally, for trade and sustainability issues, on which we will all acknowledge there is an important and increasing focus. so my conclusion is clear. the eu-mercosur agreement not only can, but is an essential part of any agreement internationally to support the green deal in many ways.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the greens ask whether the mercosur agreement is compatible with the green deal. the answer is clear: yes. moreover, the agreement is a necessary contribution to the green deal, just as commissioner hogan has said. it is a milestone in legal history because we will have - commissioner hogan has also said this - for the first time an enforcement mechanism in a plurilateral trade agreement for environmental and social standards. we will establish a standard that we would not have had without the agreement. the real question is therefore: what if we do not sign the agreement, do not agree to it? of course, there is trade, but there are no rules, no standards. with this agreement we are moving from unregulated free trade to rules-based fair trade. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. we will have no influence in the world unless we make these agreements. we saw it in the summer: even before it came into force, the agreement had already created political pressure to fight forest fires in the amazon region and thus protect natural areas. you just can't see it! i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. none of that happened. it is time that the cheerleaders of these fear campaigns apologised to the european citizens instead of once again using half-truths to stir up the mood against a new trade agreement. if we want to get climate action beyond your symbolic politics and emergency declarations, then we europeans must not only lead the way, but also ensure that the rest of the world follows our standards. and this agreement is an important step towards that.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. yes, the commission has declared the green deal the central project for the next five years. i welcome this very much, because it is the commission's response not only to the devastating climate and environmental crisis, but also to the tens of thousands of young people who have been taking to the streets every week for a year now all over europe. commission president von der leyen herself says that the eu will be climate neutral by 2050. to achieve this objective, action is needed in all sectors of the economy. but i'm going to ask you straight out, mr. hogan. how does this clear statement by mrs von der leyen fit in with current trade policy? yes, let's take the mercosur agreement, which undermines all our climate efforts. mercosur will lead to more imports of meat, dairy products and ethanol. it will make soybean imports even cheaper, and all of these products have to be grown somewhere. 20% of the entire amazon has already been destroyed by bulldozers and fires. the rate of deforestation in brazil has doubled in the last year, so that this large area can be used to grow soybeans, beef and ethanol. we are facing an ecological crisis with our eyes wide open. soon the rainforest has reached a tipping point, and one of the most important ecosystems on earth is on the verge of collapse. the eu is promoting this with its trade policy and is also making a pact with bolsonaro, who tramples on human rights and is sabotaging the entire climate negotiations in madrid. the commission promises in the green deal to transform the agricultural industry in europe, reduce the use of pesticides and fertilisers and protect europe's forests. the mercosur agreement does the opposite abroad that's schizophrenic. if we are serious about the green deal, we must also change our trade policy. because in trade agreements - we know this - the economic rules are written down for decades, carved in stone, like a constitution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the time has come for a different trade policy, for a different agreement with the mercosur countries. we need sustainable supply chains, and the commission must now finally bring forward legislation to do so. environmental and social standards must be subject to appeal and not to a toothless tiger, as is the case at present. products must be differentiated according to their carbon footprint and production processes, and we urgently need to include climate protection in all chapters of trade agreements. we certainly do not need a mercosur agreement that kills the rainforest.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the mercosur agreement could have been a success story. 35 % tariffs on cars imported from europe into argentina and brazil have been a huge barrier to trade. it would therefore have been a historic opportunity for this industry and the initial reports from the automotive industry on the closure or the conclusion of the negotiations were accordingly positive. the commission has not only been given a new candidate for president of the commission, but also a green deal which completely challenges the production matrix of our economy and which is also neatly garnished with the image of a mission to the moon. what are we going to export? the mercosur countries are not in a position, either from the point of view of infrastructure or purchasing power, to use electric vehicles, which are now being forced onto european production lines by force majeure. south america will continue to rely on the combustion engine as a motor for individual mobility. so, the very same kind of drive that is now killing the green deal. let me tell you something . our companies, with headquarters and production sites within the eu, may be subject to political miscalculation here - as in other capitals such as berlin - for better or for worse, but our trading partners are certainly not, because they can choose new partners. when in doubt, they'll look for someone who's not running around with some new ideological pig. that is why the picture of the moon mission that the commission president has painted of the green deal is perhaps not so wrong. the goal of going to the moon was the same as that of the men on the apollo 13 mission, and the green deal is already reminding us of that. after an oxygen tank exploded, the astronauts were only halfway back. this is precisely what the commission is threatening to do with its harakiri manoeuvre, which is to try to force the green deal into the globalised world economy, which is about cost advantages and market shares, but certainly not about ideologies.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. in the face of the ecological crisis facing mankind today, should we as the eu agree to an agreement whose explicit aim is to further boost trade in beef and soy? it is only logical that this will further accelerate the destruction of the rainforest in favour of the expansion of agricultural land. mr bolsonaro himself said it at cop 25: what does he care about climate protection? he wants opportunities of business dramatically enough. but what is still at stake is a dramatic loss of biodiversity. the amazon is the largest haven for biodiversity on the planet with over 40 000 plant species, 16 000 tree species, 4 500 species of fish, birds and mammals that are unique to the region. one in ten of the world's known animal and plant species lives in the amazon ecosystem. as europeans, it is our duty to work for the protection of the world's forests. the eu-mercosur agreement in its current form is counteracting the necessary environmental change.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation of the uyghurs in china (china cables) (2019/2945 ((rsp)).
madam president, when we receive heavy reactions from china one might think it shows that they are strong, but in reality, it shows the opposite – they are weak, because they know what they are doing with their own people is morally wrong. the mass imprisonment and the violation of human rights are just unacceptable. the chinese government knows that they are also violating their own rules, and they are breaching international treaties as well. china has been endorsing the norm of responsibility to protect. it is china’s responsibility to protect its own citizens, and we need to make sure that they follow these rules and adhere to the minimum standard. here, we in the eu, can only achieve anything to save the uyghurs in china if europe stands together and stands united. we need to continue the pressure and call out china for what they are doing. without a consistent strategy, europe will not be able to make any difference to the life of the people living in china. however, it is not only the governments and the politicians who need to follow the commonly agreed strategy which is based on the protection of human rights. it is also up to the companies and businesses which are currently making a fortune in china and also in xinjiang. without them, our strategy will not work.
for the greens/efa group madam president, female genital mutilation covers all interventions which involve the alteration of the female genital organs for non-medical reasons and is a violation of the fundamental rights of women and girls. these practices also violate their right to sexual and reproductive health and physical integrity. female genital mutilation is a worldwide problem, affecting countries in africa, the middle east, iraq, iran, indonesia, and europe. in germany, according to a prevalence study, there are more than 20,000 female circumcised and more than 4,000 girls considered at risk of circumcision. the majority of mutilation victims living in europe are immigrants; there are about 500,000 of them. fgm is based on a foundation of social norms and false religious beliefs. despite a clear decline and the development of laws in 24 of the 29 countries concerned in africa, pockets of resistance still exist. the participation of dignitaries and clerics of islamic faith in awareness campaigns could be an asset in the eradication of genital mutilation. they are outdated traditions that, over time, have been falsely assimilated to the islamic religion. but there is nothing in the koran, the bible or the torah that requires a woman to be circumcised. awareness and education work, supported by health practitioners, with the participation of young people, the future charming princes, can bring a new breath to achieve zero tolerance by 2030. the taboo needs to be broken through awareness and prevention, efforts need to be made to reorient excise offices to other income-generating activities, and work with communities that practice mutilation without stigmatising them. the european union must support organisations that help protect the physical integrity of women and girls, and this in respect of each other's culture, so that we can achieve the abolition of female genital mutilation. we are not fighting against traditions, but for the elimination of an act of violence that affects the health of women and girls.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we are talking about the eu strategy to combat the inhuman and degrading practice of female genital mutilation. we have just heard from colleagues fitzgerald, tolleret and herzberger-fofana that they condemn this bestial practice of female genital mutilation and are determined to combat this inhuman practice. such lying hypocrisy is truly unparalleled! just three weeks ago, they rejected an amendment to the istanbul convention which sought to address and condemn this disgusting practice. why would you do that? because they seem to be indifferent to the untold suffering of the girls and women involved. it was much more important to you to reject the amendment because it came from me, the persona non grata with the wrong party book. the resolution adopted is 3331 words long, and my amendment would have expressed in the resolution of 176 words the determination to combat and put an end to this disgusting practice. but the rejection of fgm is only mentioned once, somewhere else, and is reduced to a footnote. so who are you trying to sell your fight against female genital mutilation to? shame on you! i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the humanitarian situation in the sahel states is currently depressing: burkina faso is mentioned here, and i believe that we need to see the sahel states as a whole, together with the neighbouring states: with mali, with niger, with the other neighbouring states. it has been said that burkina faso was once a country where religions coexisted peacefully, but that is no longer the case. religion used to be irrelevant - quite frankly - but it is now. it's not just that christians are being persecuted by jihadists, but moderate muslims are also being targeted. this shows that there is a culture, a situation where people don't trust each other, where we have big problems in interfaith dialogue. so, ladies and gentlemen, i think we need to get on the road to supporting this region more. it's about giving people perspective so they don't become radicalized. but it also has something to do with our military support. the commissioner has just said that security does not depend on soldiers. yes, security depends on soldiers too. we must therefore be even more involved in this region as europeans.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we too will support the resolution. however, we should be aware that political measures will not eliminate the root problem of human rights violations and persecution of christians. the number of persecuted christians alone has now risen to over 200 million, and just over the weekend, at least 33 people were murdered in the congo by islamists. what is our response to this deadly hatred? for christians who want to follow jesus' example, there can be only one answer: love your enemies. jesus himself told his disciples: "if they have persecuted me, they will persecute you also. well, can love really be the answer? yes, for god himself loved the world so much that he gave his own son. and that is the true message of christmas. it is the only thing that can help us in our present precarious situation. so i wish us all a merry, blessed and gracious christmas season.
a writer. the commission is not i always have a bit of a problem with the fact that when we talk about afghanistan in the european parliament, we are really only talking about the dark side. i know afghanistan has its dark sides. but it's also the case that maybe you should talk about the happy side every once in a while: happy families, great food, beautiful sunsets in kabul. i know that's not the topic today. but i find it kind of sad that this country -- which has two sides -- is often not represented with both sides. i was in afghanistan in 2016 and 2017 as a photojournalist, and of course, the dark side of the country was not hidden from me. but i also met a lot of great people there, a lot of people who were also fighting for human rights and democracy. it must be said that it is people like mohammad musa mahmudi and ehsanullah hamidi who are tirelessly working for human rights there who deserve our thanks. worse still, these human rights defenders may be in some cases less protected than the criminals who commit crimes against children there. the two human rights defenders wanted to protect children from sexual abuse and were arrested on their way to a meeting with the eu ambassador. it is important that we bring this issue up here, that we acknowledge in the resolution that the authorities there now want to take steps to better protect human rights defenders, including to independently investigate these allegations. but it is just as important that we stay there, that we look there closely, that these crimes do not go unpunished, that the safety of human rights defenders is protected, and that we also say: whoever among us wants to receive financial aid, he must advocate for human rights defenders, and he must not let go unpunished if children are abused. we are addressing various points in the resolution and i am very grateful that it was possible to find such a broadly united resolution here in parliament to send a strong signal. i would also like to thank my colleagues for their support.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not the abuse of children in afghanistan is appalling, the sexual abuse of every child is appalling. unfortunately, this form of abuse is not uncommon in islamic countries and is ultimately nothing more than an expression of the prevailing culture there. the problem is that the european parliament is once again taking the liberty of pointing the finger at the wrongdoings of other countries. we are again hearing sunday speeches and empty rhetoric of grievances. it's a good way to feel good about yourself and prove your moral superiority. but they do not change the reality of these children's lives. the very mention of the most problematic treatment of sexuality in islam is already a sign of racism in this country. but if the cause of a problem cannot be named, then please do not pretend that you care about the fate of these children. your publicly celebrated moral superiority, which you carry around like a pop-dance, is nothing but the holy grail of the hypocrites.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. and again, putin wants to use this foreign agent law to gain even more control over his society. the space for independent organizations, media and even freedom of thought is getting smaller and smaller. step by step, the kremlin is taking away all the freedoms of russian society. but it's not just russia. silencing ngos and critics and abolishing media pluralism is russia's most successful export. putin as a model for authoritarian rulers. they don't always put their opponents in jail, but they've realized that administrative hurdles or the mere threat of sanctions lead to self-censorship. they have developed subtle and more sophisticated methods of exerting pressure, making daily work more difficult and then silencing critics once and for all. intimidation of ngos is a common practice in our neighborhood. campaigns of slander against civil rights activists are commonplace not only outside the eu but also in romania, the czech republic and malta. the model pupil of putin is viktor orbán. in hungary, ngos are already obliged to register and to identify foreign-funded organisations when they receive money from abroad. we must put an end to these developments as quickly as possible.
...uighurs are calling for the same measures as the rohingya in burma. the natural support for human rights cannot hide the proven infiltration of radical islam into the muslim minority in china, nor the question of its territorial integrity in the face of militant islam-nationalism. this does not diminish our intransigence in the face of violations of fundamental freedoms, including freedom of conscience. but it is clear that china's shortcomings in this area are not new. for example, what about the increasing restrictions on the exercise of christian worship since 2017 in the indifference of the international community? according to some sources, unofficial christian churches are facing administrative closures, while others are experiencing a flood of harassment, such as censorship of sermons. let us not pretend to discover the authoritarianism which has always been the hallmark of the chinese regime, and in the face of which a firm attitude must, on our part, finally prevail.
madam president, i think it is very good that we have dealt with this subject here and that we have adopted a resolution on it. here in the european parliament we sometimes see a kind of double standard with regard to central america and latin america. our colleagues on the left of the political spectrum are very happy to criticize those regimes that are ideologically uncomfortable or unpleasant for them, they are very happy to criticize, for example, the brazilian president, the chilean president, they are happy to criticize the situation in colombia, but when it comes to other countries, when it comes to venezuela or cuba or, finally, bolivia, where the president had to flee the country, or even nicaragua, they are much more restrained. but even the human rights violations in these countries need to be highlighted and not have a double standard.
madam president, the pirate delegation is in favour of holding the powerful accountable for grave violations of human rights, including by way of effective sanctions. however, this should be done in line with international law, and this includes the principle of head-of-state immunity, and furthermore, sanctions should primarily be imposed by the united nations. now, this parliament resolution on nicaragua doesn’t really take these measures into account, and especially its calls for sanctions, inter alia, on the president of nicaragua, the acting head of state, and therefore, we decided to abstain on that specific split vote.
