i have to say, madam president, the debate on glyphosate has been very much alive in recent years, and rightly so. we've discussed whether the drug has been dangerous, whether we've used it the right way. it was therefore a good thing that we in the european parliament decided to set up a committee to look into whether we had done the right thing, whether we could find a different and better way of authorising new pesticides. after almost a year of work, the committee has come to a number of very good and very necessary conclusions. i cannot emphasize them all here - i do not have time - but i would like to consider three: one is that we have chosen to emphasize the need for much more transparency in the approval procedure. we simply need to know where a report comes from, what it is about some of the researchers who have been responsible for it, and how they have been paid. secondly, we need more independence in the eu bodies: echa simply needs more money so that it can do more studies which are independent. finally, we must base everything on the precautionary principle. i support the conclusions and hope that we will get them adopted so that we can make them law in the eu in the future.
i have to say, madam president, every year, hundreds of thousands of illegal migrants flood europe's borders. the debate in this chamber gives the impression that we are actually supporting the illegalities that are taking place, both on the part of the smugglers and on the part of the migrants who have no legal access to europe whatsoever. the vast majority of this house actually seems to think that we should legalize the fact that up to a million people every single year come to europe without any conditions whatsoever to live, to live and to integrate here. this is perhaps the best answer to why it is so important for denmark to have a reservation about all this integration madness that is going on every day here in the european parliament. the only institution which has taken a reasonably sensible line on this issue is the council. we can only hope that the council will stand firm and say no to the insane proposal of the commission and parliament on the sharing of migration and legal migration, and instead take the concerns of europeans seriously and stop illegal migration before it tears europe apart.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i must refrain from making the remark that the european union has been a driverless vehicle for too long, and simply say that this is yet another area where we can thank american development and industry for a hopeful breakthrough which will also make life easier for us europeans. of course, this requires regulation, and of course the european parliament immediately rushes to such regulation - even though we do not know what the cars will look like, and even though we do not know the software or the hardware or anything. it is good to be ahead of the curve, and that is why i voted in favour of this report, because i cannot imagine anything better than being able to sit and read the newspaper while being driven to work by an automatic car. but let's also keep safety in mind. it is not unimportant, and we have already seen some terrible episodes in the american experiments which must never, ever happen in europe. all right, but let's lift our foot off the brake a little bit.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in the last parliamentary elections in 2014, road transport - the transport of goods across borders - was one of the major themes. i remember how the concept of cabotage, which is not a distinctly danish word, suddenly became a word that everyone knew and had on their lips in denmark, because it highlighted one of the very big problems of european cooperation: that you can work in one country while you are employed in another and therefore have to comply with the wage and working conditions that apply in the country where you are employed, and therefore not where you are doing the work. it creates some completely unfair and unfair conditions for competition. i therefore looked forward with some expectation and hope to the fact that we would be debating cabotage in this house. but i, like most of the other interested parties who sit and watch outside the thick walls, must fight with wonder and disappointment. because nothing has happened. or rather: what has happened has gone in the wrong direction and just emphasizes that the whole eu project is on the wrong track, away from the citizens, away from reality and away from the problems, one hopes.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we have seen the european parliament adopt one fine resolution on gender equality after another, but we must nevertheless say that it is lacking. i come from denmark, where we have a woman president of the folketing, mrs pia kjærsgaard. we have had a female prime minister, we have appointed a female commissioner, we have even had her majesty the queen as head of state, who is of course a woman. but here in the european parliament, there is the president of parliament, the president of the council, the president of the commission, even the president of the ecb, all men. it would therefore seem that this would be the main focus of this report. but no, i'm not. you're wrong. instead, they focus on gender-neutral language and the problem of visual stereotypes and other nonsense - instead of addressing the root of the problem. this is embarrassing.
madam president, besides paving the way for more private investment in europe, which we really need, i also think we have to ask how we want to spend taxpayers’ money. so investeu is a question we need to ask on that. do we want to invest in business as usual, spending money on outdated approaches and supporting the technology of the past, or should we invest in the tools of the future, the europe of tomorrow, where growth doesn’t have an equal burden in terms of climate and sustainability? when we are voting on the investeu programme tomorrow, that is the question we all need to ask ourselves. with investeu we have a chance to show in what direction we, as policymakers, wish to direct europe. we have a chance to vote for a fund that puts climate first when investing taxpayers’ money. along with ambitious colleagues from a number of parties, i have fought for higher sustainability and energy targets. dear colleagues – and especially the colleagues on the conservative side of this chamber – please join us in voting for an eu investment programme that puts climate and the future first.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you to the rapporteurs and thank you to the ombudsman, not least, for an excellent report. we are faced with the very heart of what is called the democratic deficit in the european union. it is usually referred to as a kind of ghost story: it is so far away, there are so many, there are so many languages. no, this is exactly where we can find it! the national parliaments and the national press cannot see what their own government is doing - and certainly not what others are doing. imagine that your own parliament, just a few times a month, announced that it had now adopted such and such a resolution - without you knowing which party had said what, or what the discussion had been like. i think that most people would find that quite appalling - but that is exactly how the council works. they operate as if they were an intergovernmental institution - not a european union legislative institution. it is diplomats, not officials/professionals, who sit down and make the laws. they hardly take any votes - thank you, ombudsman, for pointing this out - and i really hope that not only do we get good support for this report, but that you all make it an important issue in the election campaign to get your governments to support this. only then will we be able to tackle the democratic deficit in the eu! (the president agreed to answer a question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue card answer. i am not sure that this is the case. i am of course in agreement with that. that is basically what i was trying to describe, but i think, mrs grapini, that if we really read the ombudsman's report and the report we have here, we have some very, very good tools to tackle that problem. the moment the national press and national parliaments can follow what their governments are doing, they are forced to also see what the other side of the legislative process - namely us - is doing, and we are readily available to them. they can easily follow what we do, so that in itself is not the problem. the problem is that the entire important national stratum has been kept out of democracy, and i very much hope that we can fight this evil together, and with the ombudsman's report we have an excellent tool to do that.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, it is interesting to once again see this parliament bashing hungary when it comes to rule of law and democracy. it’s the very same house where prominent members have proposed to take away travel allowances for people that they disagree with. the same house where we, in this very plenary session, are going to vote on amendments regarding the rules of procedure that are clearly an attack by the majority against minority views in parliament. if you cannot see that hypocrisy you must have been in the european parliament for too long. i don’t know the exact content of the allegations about hungary but i do know that countries in this union are not treated equally. if we see violent bashing of demonstrators in catalonia, we do not see a reaction from his house. if we see a demonstration, a peaceful demonstration, carried out in budapest, it is apparently a violation of the rule of law. it is fundamentally problematic that these attacks, that have been going on since the jörg haider case in austria more than a decade ago and up to today against hungary and poland, are continuing from the european establishment’s side. it is profoundly dazzling to me that you don’t see in this house that the only thing you do is bash up more support for the people that want to get rid of: mr orbán, mr kaczyński, and whoever is next in that line of people that you don’t like, that the european peoples have elected democratically in the member states. it’s a shame for europe and it’s a shame for the european union. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to say to the prime minister that his country, finland, is among the world leaders in many areas from clean energy and gender equality to social progress. i think transparency international only this week named finland as the third least corrupt country in the world and let us not forget last year’s world happiness report, according to which finns are now the happiest people in the world. coming from denmark i am a little bit disappointed that you took over our place at that point. congratulations on this impressive record. finland clearly demonstrates that small countries can be on top of the world, not only in geographical terms. but, prime minister, in your speech today, besides better implementation, i missed this ambition to be a champion and driver for positive social change in europe. where is your ambition to make europe the world leader in a transformation to a sustainable development model in a just way where all people are included? where is your ambition to make the lives of europeans better? what you presented to us today sounded a little bit more like yesterday’s neoliberal slogans that led to the deep economic and social crisis in europe. prime minister, we socialists and democrats have an ambitious vision for europe. we live in times when our earth and our sources of life are under attack from climate change and pollution. you rightly mentioned that. the air we breathe, the water we drink, the soil our crops are grown in are the future of our children and it is our duty to protect them. but our citizens and our workers are also tired of being the only ones paying for the transformation to a more sustainable way of production. they are outraged to see multinationals polluting our planet and reaping huge benefit, but not paying their fair taxes. this must change, prime minister. we need to change the stability and growth pact to become a true sustainability pact for europe. therefore we have drawn up a plan to shift towards more sustainable ways of working, producing, living which go hand in hand with social progress for the people – a just transition – with the united nations development goals as our signpost. today i call on finland to join us in this very important battle. we europeans need to shape globalisation our way, not fall victim to destructive forces. we must be rule—makers, not rule—takers, because we live in times with growing inequality caused by the greediness of some elites and uncontrolled globalisation. the only way to address this is by finally fixing taxation and ensuring good salaries and working conditions for all, based on the social pillar. i didn’t hear you mention the social pillar some of us fought so hard to adopt in the european union. prime minister, fair taxation is the foundation for european welfare states like the nordic ones, which we come from, and citizens’ trust in democratic government. but are you willing to join us in this battle for fair taxation? professor richard murphy showed in a study last week that the tax gap in europe is eur 825 billion, a gigantic amount of money. our group has been in the forefront in the fight against money laundering and tax crimes. we call for a minimum corporate effective tax in europe to stop the race to the bottom on corporate taxation. we call for stricter criteria and a for true tax haven list, which also calls out tax havens right here in the european union. what do the people not understand is that while we as citizens have to pay high taxes, internet giants like google and facebook pay less than 1% in tax on what they earn in europe? that is not fair. we need to protect our welfare states. we need to fight, not only for free, but also for fair, competition and for fairness for european citizens who today pay the price of multinationals’ tax dodging and we can achieve that. if we achieved that, prime minister, your recent project in finland, – as i understand, the privatisation of hospitals and health care – could not just had been avoided, but public health care could have been strengthened in finland, for example. so the status quo is not an option. it’s time for radical change to shape europe for all people and leave nobody behind. prime minister, we see forces that are tearing our societies apart, but we need this radical change to social democracy and to more sustainable equality. we are campaigning for that as social democrats in europe and we hope that liberals and other progressives will also join this fight. (applause)
the committee on petitions has also adopted a number of amendments. i am not sure that this is the case. and thank you also for mr timmermann's review here. i can totally share that. that is why i am also a little saddened that the amendments which we actually got made in the committee on petitions, where we had a really good cooperation, did not all survive afco. i don't know what happened in afco. i would like to mention two cases which are crucial, and which mr timmermanns also mentioned, namely those relating to good administrative practice. one is that we must have made it absolutely clear that access to documents must be a matter of course and that it is only in the very rare cases that it cannot be granted. i would very much like to see amendment no 9 tabled. the second concerns conflicts of interest. it is still a major problem in all our countries that there are conflicts of interest in large parts of our administration where it is not enough just to say that you have it. if we want the public to trust us, they can't be there at all. that is why i shall pray very much that it does! and i would just like to say that these two points, which are already in the law, are also about giving us strong and proud officials, because it is good for the administration and the officials that there is that security around them.
madam chairman! the tragic situation in syria is a horrifying example of what would happen if this parliament had the power it intended to have in foreign policy. we see a situation where american interventionism has been condemned again and again and again, and now we have a syria in chaos in our own backyard. russia, turkey and iran - all powers that, to put it mildly, have interests that are at odds with europe's - are the ones who have won on the ground, while our closest ally, the kurdish troops who have fought against assad and against isis, are the ones who are left behind. it can be said that this is the logical consequence of the european criticism and isolationism of the united states, which has been carried out since iraq and afghanistan by major eu countries, and it is quite natural that the americans no longer have the courage to solve the problems of the europeans. perhaps we should take the time to reflect on the fact that the transatlantic relationship is the most important security link for europe, both in the past and in the future, and that the endless attacks on the united states do not make matters any better.
author. – mr president, tax evasion in the eu costs member states eur 825 billion every single year. this is theft from hard-working people, pure and simple. from 1997 to 2017 the average company tax rate in europe fell from over 35% to under 22%. digital companies pay even less in taxes – only 9.5% on average according to the commission’s figures. internet giants – like apple, google and facebook – pay practically zero tax on their european businesses. apple famously paid only 0.005% in taxes, while google and facebook paid 0.82% and 0.03%. this is not only making a mockery of ordinary citizens and regular companies in europe who are paying their fair taxes to contribute to society, but it is an existential threat to well-functioning welfare states, societal fairness and a sustainable transition in europe. we socialists and democrats want to stop international tax evasion and avoidance that also accelerates inequalities in the world today. we know that 26 people owe as much as eur 3.8 billion – half of the world’s population – according to new figures. we want tax justice and we want it now. we have put forward concrete solutions to achieve that and the eu needs to take the lead. we want a fair and urgent taxation of the internet giants who profit from european customers but pay almost no tax in europe. we want an effective minimum corporate taxation in europe to stop the harmful race to the bottom on corporate taxation. we also want a financial transaction tax to stop harmful speculation and to ensure much—needed taxes to fund public services. it is time for tax havens – even the european council – to stop defending the broken tax system of yesterday. it’s time to stand up for fair taxation and demand that all companies, especially the largest and richest of them – the digital giants – contribute to society. we social democrats of course support the oecd solution to the problem of taxing digital companies, but we will not wait forever and we will not sit idle and silent while the richest and biggest companies in the world continue to pay less than 1% tax in europe. we reject the false argument that eu member states should not take the lead in stopping the non—taxation of digital giants. how on earth can opponents of the eu solution claim that 36 members of oecd and 128 members of the inclusive framework will reach a decision faster than the 28 member states in the eu when they themselves are blocking progress in the european council? the clock is ticking. we know that. france, italy, spain, the uk and austria all have plans for national taxation of digital giants, as they should. blocking an effective eu solution to the problem of the non-taxation of digital giants will not prevent uncoordinated action on this. it will actually ensure uncoordinated action. we have a workable eu solution to fairly tax digital giants on the table. we have stated clearly that if and when an oecd solution is adopted, this solution would immediately take its place. but, honestly, do you really think for a second that donald trump will fight for fair taxation of companies? because he needs to support the oecd solution too. do you trust a deal with the man who pulled out of the paris agreement and a g7 statement via tweets? this is a choice that the politicians of europe must make now. do we want to act and force internet giants to pay their fair tax in europe or do we just want to wait and hope someone else will find a solution, while the countries of europe are losing billions in taxes? we socialists and democrats have a clear message to the governments imposing fair taxation. stop defending your richest companies who pay little tax. start defending european citizens and welfare states. this is your job. now it’s time to do it.
mr president, i think that what we are debating is a very serious security threat to europe. we now face a real threat from russian missiles. once again, our cities and our continent are in focus and one could ask why that is. we are a long way from the time when president obama went to europe and talked about a world free of nuclear weapons. now we have trump in the white house withdrawing from the inf treaty and also, in a way, undermining multilateralism. in this serious situation we have to stand up as europeans, believing in the rule of law and in treaties rather than in the law of force that we have been seeing on many sides around the world – putin, as well as in the white house. so we have to stand up for multilateralism and we still have to fight for a world where we do not have proliferation and where we can once again see a future without nuclear arms and nuclear weapons.
madam chairman! the proposal to limit bank charges on crossborder payments is a gift to our small and mediumsized enterprises. it is the roaming charge for banks that we are now abolishing. companies in non-euro area countries have been disadvantaged by their euro area competitors. in denmark, it typically costs a company between dkk 15 and 50 to make a transfer in euro to another eu country. for euro area countries, it now costs the same as a domestic transfer. it is not fair to the companies outside the euro zone. and in denmark, it is actually small and mediumsized enterprises that pay the highest price because they have rarely had the resources to negotiate a lower price. i would like to give one simple example from the real world: a danish small or medium-sized firm producing designer furniture exports 75% of its products to other member states. it costs 5 euros each time the company makes a foreign transfer. in today's denmark, that amounts to 7,000 euros a year. eur 7000 which the company can spend on staff, savings or investments. this is something that will benefit the european economy. i hope that the next parliament and the next commission will work to extend the regulation to remove unnecessary charges on payments between eu countries outside the euro area. this is precisely the kind of legislation on which the eu must also focus. it is legislation that creates growth, good conditions for businesses and thus jobs and security for citizens. finally, a warm thanks to our rapporteur, eva maydell. thank you, sir.
the rapporteur. i am not sure that this is the case. my fellow members! the day has come when parliament must finally take a position on a matter which i have spent quite a long time working to promote. parliament now has the chance to demand that the commission and the member states do more to ensure the welfare of animals during transport. first of all, i should like to thank my colleagues from the other groups with whom i have negotiated. when the work on the report was about to begin, i said that i wanted all parties involved and that they should also be heard so that we could ensure as strong a support for the report as possible, not just for our sake but for the sake of the animals. there is no more work to be done in this house, and i hope that my colleagues have also felt involved in the preparation of this report. i would like to thank the commission for the many constructive proposals and for the great cooperation it has shown. it is for this reason that we are here today and can say that we have done something for the many millions of animals that are being transported in and out of the european union. today is a good day for animals, and that is because we are calling for the transport times of live animals to be reduced. we want to see more stringent and systematic controls on transport and tougher penalties for those who break the rules and undermine animal welfare. we want to transport fewer live animals altogether. instead, we'd rather be transporting frozen meat. and now that we're talking about animals, i'd like to have laws to address the elephant in the room. the report calls for us to stop exporting live animals for slaughter to third countries if those countries do not impose the same animal welfare standards as we have in the eu. and that's a controversial claim for some. in a danish newspaper i read a statement by an epp member calling the demand extremist! if it is extremist to walk away from a practice where animals are stranded at eu border crossings and stand crowded, thirsty and overheated for days on end, well, then you can call me an extremist. i'd even like to take it as an honorary title. i myself have been between bulgaria and turkey at the border and i did a random check on trucks and we found that they were standing for six hours just to get the paperwork done. and you could also say that they were in the sun without shade, it was hot, it was 30-35 degrees. it was possible to ascertain that calves had been born on the way, and therefore it was also possible to ascertain that these were animals without earmarks, that is to say, the animals had ended up in no man's land. we're actually sending animals on a journey where they become lawless. in this house, where rules are made on just about everything, it is a little inconceivable to me that a member of the epp group, for example, would go so far as to call this an exaggeration. there are no rules at all for these animals, which end up in turkey and the middle east, for example. it must come to an end, and i would therefore urge all members to vote in favour of paragraph 88. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is the message we are sending with this report. it will now be up to the commission and the member states to follow suit. we already have some good rules on paper. the problem is that they are not observed in the individual countries. we can see how some member states do not check lorries and animal consignments at all. this means that there are countries where the legislation has practically never existed. it is a serious threat to animal welfare but also distorts competition in the internal market. we also have countries reporting totally unrealistically high control figures to the commission. they also cover legislation which is not in force. this is a mess that needs fixing! i am therefore glad that the commission itself has admitted that more needs to be done in terms of reporting and control. this was admitted by the commission's own representative at the hearing i organised in december. it is a set of recommendations from the report which are already being acted upon, on the basis of it. that's a good start! the commission must now simply make sure that it responds to the remaining recommendations which this parliament has hopefully made. so it's time we stood up for the animals.
the rapporteur. i am not sure that this is the case. thank you for your comments. i would also like to thank the commissioner for his words, which say that there are still things to work on. there are three priorities which they have placed high on the agenda. we're happy to cooperate with the commissioner. i just have to say, we don't want it to be just talk! that is why we want to see this report. we're behind other countries like new zealand and australia. they have been doing this for a long time, and i am a little disappointed by the commissioner's comment: where is the new technology? why not use new technology to monitor this area? i think it's important! we're also talking about the eight-hour transport. i say that it should be as short as possible, and i do so on the basis that i do not want it to be planned out of the blue, that all the animals have to be transported for eight hours. so as brief as possible! i trust that the majority in this house today will send this strong signal to the commission, and that is why i also believe that it is time we stood behind the animals. i would therefore like to thank you very much for this debate and for your support so far.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. i thank you, mr president, and i thank you, mr commissioner, for your answers to our questions. i'd like to admit that i might be a little bit disappointed. i have no doubt that the present commission is concerned about air quality and is doing something about it, but i also think we need to be even more clear about what needs to be done. air pollution kills - i repeat: air pollution kills! it is estimated that every single year in the eu 4 000 000 of our citizens die prematurely as a result of air pollution. this is serious! that is why we need to do something. i fully appreciate what the commission has done, but we also need to do much more. we need to be brave enough to talk about the hard things about this. what's hard about it? we need to point out that agriculture, for example, must also contribute. farmers need to reduce their air pollution, both in terms of co2, ammonia and methane gases. unfortunately, agriculture is a major part of our problem. we must have the courage to talk about this, we must have the courage to talk about using our agricultural policy and our agricultural subsidies to put pressure on agriculture to contribute to the solution. then there is the transport sector. it's still part of this, too. and yes, fortunately we have a lot of legislation on the way. we have done something, but we can do even more. there is still a lot to be done on top of dieselgate, there is still - it is the 11 member states that have asked to be allowed to pollute some more, to have their limit values set up. it's not right! we need to tighten up, also in relation to the transport sector. we must also give our cities in europe the opportunity to do more. fortunately, i know that the commission is also supporting this, but we need to ensure that cities have the right to create environmental zones and take all possible measures to protect their citizens in cities from this very harmful pollution. i hope that the present commission will help to lay a very good foundation so that we can also tackle this air pollution problem in the next five years in a very serious way. we have to make sure that air pollution is reduced so that people don't die from it.
mr. chairman, please. turkey is a country which historically, culturally and geographically has never been and will never be part of europe. and so it is welcome that this parliament has produced the first and most critical report ever against turkish membership. but it is not acceptable that these negotiations should not be concluded. turkey has for years shown that it is on a slippery slope towards an increasingly islamized society. we have seen a great setback in turkish society in general, but also in the influence that turkey exercises here in europe. the occupation of cyprus and the totally unacceptable behaviour towards the many turks who live and work in other european countries. so now is the time to say stop. and to be honest in our talks with turkey and to admit to them that they will never be and should never be members of the european union.
the rapporteur. mr president! the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. it is an important moment for us in this parliament and for some 80 million european citizens. we are faced with the need to confirm legislation that will improve and ensure the availability of various products and services. so that in future, whatever disability or impairment you have, you can expect your phone, your computer, your tv to be accessible to you and you can use these everyday tools on an equal footing with all other consumers. in an emergency, you can call 112 for help, you can find information about a train journey either digitally or at the station you can withdraw money from any atm on your way. things that we take for granted in everyday life, but that you can't necessarily do in the same way as the disabled. this legislation finally brings the harmonization that has been awaited for many years, and thus confirms the ambitions that we find in the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. i'm personally very, very proud of that. it has been a long and hard ride to lead these negotiations, but i am proud of the changes we are helping to bring about now. what will happen? yes, as i said, the central emergency service 112 is included in the agreement, we have check-in machines, payment terminals and other terminals among the self-service terminals which are now to be made available. thanks to parliament, all terminals of urban transport such as the metro, bus and tram are also included. parliament has succeeded in including public procurement in the agreement, although this was a problem for the council from the outset. we have also created the necessary balance for business by excluding micro-enterprises which provide services. and for the micro-enterprises that supply products, there will be support from the member states and more lenient requirements. the requirements for accessibility are functional, they are not technical - there was a great deal of debate about this - which means that companies can continue to innovate and work to improve their products. we don't tell them how to do it. i am not saying that the commission is perfect, but i am saying that it is not perfect, although in all negotiations you have to make compromises. and i know that there is disappointment that, for example, mandatory requirements for the built environment are not part of the legislation. i know there were wishes and hopes for more. so i tried to deliver this, but i realized that to get all the good stuff through, we had to compromise. i am not prepared to throw them all on the floor and thus deprive so many citizens of the opportunity for progress in other important areas. i am glad, however, that the built environment was included, albeit on a voluntary basis, and that the commission is to assess how far the member states have come in this area a few years after the law has come into force. i hope for broad support from this house for such important legislation as this.
the rapporteur. mr president, thank you to all the members for participating in this debate, which i have been listening to very attentively. it is clear that after having gone through an intense process with all of you and having been through tough negotiations, it is nice to know how you assess the result. i can only say that in politics the glass is always either half empty or half full, and in this case i must say that i belong to the part of the human race which thinks the glass is half full. i agree with the commissioner, mimica, that we have a very good result. sometimes the best can be the worst enemy of the good, i totally agree. it has been my starting point for the whole debate that we secured the best possible result because we are in fact now in a situation where we are breaking three or four decades of stagnation in this area, as my mep colleague said a moment ago. in fact, 20 years ago, there was no preparation at all to give people with disabilities a place in society. i think we should take note of this, because this is in fact a major breakthrough in the idea that disabled people should be equal. that is what i stand for, i think it is historic, and i think we should be glad that we are in a position where we can actually now offer 80 million people or more a decent everyday life in terms of services and products. so i am happy about this. i note that many speakers could have thought of something more, and so could i personally. i had not expected that we would achieve so much, and this tells me that the member states are listening, and of course the commission has been listening from the beginning. so thank you all for participating, thank you for a fantastic good result, which i hope we will back up tomorrow. thank you!
mr president, like my colleagues, i also want to commend the work the commission is doing on listing third countries as high risk for money laundering and terrorist financing. we all know how huge a threat to our security in europe is posed by financial crimes, terrorist financing and terrorism, as well as the threat that these countries that are acting as safe havens for this pose to europe. so it’s a very serious threat to us and i commend the commission for working seriously and objectively on this, along with the directives on anti—money laundering. in a way, i just want to say that it’s a little bit ironic. we are a union based on the rule of law and objective criteria, and yet we see that the council, one of our institutions, undermines that principle when we apply the objective criteria and methodology that we have agreed upon in this case. i think it is a disaster and a scandal. i want say one more thing. i think what we see in the council is a black box. we don’t see what member states’ representatives are doing in the secret working groups and i think we could at least demand from their side that they are accountable and transparent so that citizens, the media and others – we in parliament – can see what is happening. why are countries taking items off the list in the council? why are they blocking items? what is the reason? we need to get that out in the open to get a real debate going because, if we don’t do this, we will never have an efficient list and i do not think we will fulfil the principle of the rule of law that we should all support.
for the ecr group. madam president, the terrible terrorist attacks and mass immigration of the last few years illegal mass immigration of hundreds of thousands to the eu have shown that the promise made when schengen was created of effective external border controls was not fulfilled when it was introduced. the commission is now trying to correct this and we in the ecr group support the commission in the initiatives it has taken to ensure effective external border controls. we therefore regret that the majority in the european parliament has taken this and other elements of the package presented by the commission in a different direction and has largely shifted the focus away from the crucial security aspect of external border controls and onto other considerations. in the ecr group we simply cannot be silent about the fact that the european parliament has consistently placed the safety of citizens at the bottom of the list when it comes to effective controls at the external borders. we therefore hope that the commission and the council will be able to redress the mess that the european parliament has made with this report and bring the proposal back to its original form.
mr. chairman, please. when i speak on this resolution on afghanistan, it is not an attempt to get the eu to pursue a foreign policy or to engage in the world, as i know many in this chamber want. it is, in this sense, to strike at a very central area in relation to the wishes, i know, in the commission to develop a european army. it is the dream of this parliament, the commission and perhaps also of a few individual member states that the eu should one day be the one to draw up the whole of security policy, foreign policy and defence policy. but in this report, which was written by mr fotyga, there is a slightly higher degree of understanding of reality. this is the important alliance with nato. nato, which is the defense alliance that binds europe to the united states, and which is the alliance that has created peace and prosperity throughout the western world since world war ii. this is the way forward! not to build new defence models under juncker as some kind of political leader, but to hold on to what has worked, namely nato, which has been the road to freedom for all of europe.
mr. chairman, please. the migration of people to europe is by far the greatest challenge of our generation. and we have already seen in recent years the disaster that has befallen our countries, that the eu, which has promised the voters/citizens to solve this problem, has not been able to do so. we have seen how the open external borders have led to syrian fighters, terrorists coming into our countries. we have seen how the open internal borders allow them to move freely between countries and carry out their crimes wherever it is most convenient for them. all because in this system you have said you would solve a problem, but you have not. the fact that they are now trying to get the visa rules under control is of course a step in the right direction, but it is a step that is coming incredibly late. and where one might say: where would europe be today if countries like denmark and others had not implemented national border controls? that would be an even bigger mess than the one the commission has created.
mr. chairman, please. it should have become clear to most europeans that europeans do not want this house, the commission or eu agencies to decide the demographic composition of their countries. the foreign policy is undoubtedly the biggest, the hottest and the most important issue because it will determine what our countries will look like in a generation and in two generations - whether we want to hold on to the heritage, the culture, the tradition that the generations before us have given us as a baptismal gift, or whether we want to turn our homelands into a kind of laboratory for immigration. i do not think that europeans want the latter. that is why this is a bad proposal. the only good proposal, the only good way of dealing with migration is to let the individual member states decide for themselves how they want to settle down. if there is some crazy left-wing majority that comes to power, then let them do their politics. but it should not be imposed on europeans who do not want it!
madam president, madam commissioner, i think this question as to whether we should restart negotiations is very important for us. i think it’s clear to everybody that the trump white house is undermining all that we stand for, not only in europe but also in much of america. i am vice-chairing the delegation to the us and i have many colleagues in congress who have the total opposite opinion of mr trump, robert lighthizer, wilbur ross and all these people who are occupying the administration in what they think. should we then start discussions with people that we don’t agree with? people who are undermining the rule of law on trade, people who are undermining the world trade organisation. i think we should do it because europe is a strong superpower when it comes to trade. we are the ones who are in the driving seat and we would never accept, in trade negotiations with the us, any deal before they lift their unilateral tariffs on us. if you can restore some sensitivity and the rule of law, then we should take it, but we should not do it under pressure. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – well, i think you misunderstood me. i think we can talk to the us administration, despite all of the differences we have, because the us is much more than the current administration, the trump administration; the us is congress, where a lot of people fiercely disagree on the trade policy that this white house under trump is doing. what i said is that europe is a trade superpower: we uphold the rule of law when it comes to trade. we want to ensure that the world trade organisation continues. we want to ensure a level playing field in trade. we want to integrate sustainability. we want to integrate and fight against climate change in our trade agreements. we should talk from a position of strength, not be too weak to talk to the people we disagree with.
mr. chairman, please. iran is a terrorist state. a state that promotes terror here in europe and in its own neighbourhood, but above all a state that carries out terror against its own people. it is against environmental activists, workers' rights, religious or ethnic minorities, or in general against people who dare to be critical of the regime. unfortunately, iran is one of the countries in the world that is fighting for the top spot in human rights violations. it is therefore time that we in the eu - if we really believe we are pursuing a foreign policy based on values - started to take this seriously in our treatment of the country. i think that the commission has placed far too much emphasis on confronting iran in the nuclear negotiations and giving them a free pass in the terror they are spreading both here in the eu and in their own country. let us now use sanctions as an effective weapon against the iranians, including for their human rights violations.
rapporteur. – mr president, this actually is a very, very important debate. we conclude many years of work of this parliament fighting against tax evasion, tax avoidance and financial crimes. what we have before us is the most comprehensive work done to date by this parliament in fighting tax evasion and financial crimes and also tax avoidance. take the example of tax evasion and avoidance: it costs about eur 1 trillion a year. that means eur 2000 per european citizen per year – money that has to go to hospitals, to schools, to ensure that our society has money for the weakest and the most vulnerable people. tax is stolen, is actually stolen from the most vulnerable people. so, therefore, this fight is so important. in the european union we have the biggest single market. we are attracting a lot of money and business, but at the same time, we are not effective in stopping financial crimes and money laundering. dirty russian money, a lot of money is coming into our single market without proper detection or prevention, but also without proper law enforcement and also without proper sanctions of the institutions and banks that let us down when we see big money laundering scandals. in my own country we had the scandal of danske bank where money flew through a branch in estonia, up to eur 200 billion of suspected money, a lot probably laundered from, for example, russian oligarchs or criminals, into our single market. we have to detect it and stop it much better. therefore, in this work we have a lot of good recommendations. first of all, having an effective minimum corporate taxation in europe is really what we need now in our single market to stop the race to the bottom on corporate taxation. that’s the first thing and we will fight for that. secondly, we need to end harmful cross-border tax practices by member states. some member states are facilitating this but they should stop doing this, we should have fair taxes in europe. on money laundering, we need a centralised process where we cooperate between european countries, because today it’s too easy to bring your dirty money and make it clean and use it all over europe. this is a threat to our financial and economic stability. it’s a threat to our justice system in europe and we need to do something about it. for example, we need a centralised financial intelligence unit (fiu) that could cooperate and ensure that our national law enforcement really implemented the anti-money laundering legislation we have adopted in this parliament. we have a problem of implementation. we also see that when the biggest corporations on this earth, the tech giants, are doing good business here, creating a lot of value in their interaction with european users, they do not pay fair taxes on the value they create. we need to also call on them to pay fair taxes and we need legislation to ensure that that happens. we need a common, consolidated corporate tax base. we need transparency, so we need country-by-country reporting when it comes to corporate taxes so we can also see whether they behave in a socially responsible way. and we need our countries, our member states, to ensure that they follow the standards they should. i have to say that it’s a big step forward that this parliament and commission and council has taken to make a list of third countries’ non-cooperative jurisdictions. but, if you applied some of the same criteria that we use on third countries on european member states will see that some of them fall short. they also facilitate aggressive tax planning and that had to stop – our own government has to stop this practice that is harming their neighbour, even in the european union. therefore, i think before us we have a very good and comprehensive report but i have to say that a lot has to be done in the future as well. therefore, i also call for a more permanent structure in this parliament to deal with taxation and financial crimes. we want to be successful, we want to continue our work. thank you for your attention.
rapporteur. – mr president, allow me first to thank all my colleagues for this very, very good and important debate and support for the report, and especially to thank mr niedermayer, my co-rapporteur, and all of the members of the tax3 committee and previous committees that worked so hard on tax issues and also financial crimes and money laundering. i also want to thank the commission in particular, and now also commissioner moscovici but also commissioner jourová who is here. thank you so much. we worked very closely with you on anti-money laundering, but also on tax, of course. on taxation, i want to say that we managed to get 14 new pieces of legislation through this term, but i think we have much more to do when it comes to fair taxation. commissioner moscovici, you are absolutely right. i think europe has to show the way for a 21st-century corporate tax system that is fair to citizens, fair to member states, and of course fair to businesses. i heard in the debate today from mr coburn that this is the punishment of big corporations, but the commission itself revealed that small- and medium-sized enterprises have a tax burden 30% higher than multinational corporations, so if we want to ensure fairness and equal competition we need to do something about big corporations tax dodging. i always wanted to say that during our work we saw that if you are rich enough, or if you are a rich enough and big enough company, you put yourself above the law and the spirit of the law. i think that type of behaviour should not be tolerated. i think we in parliament, as representatives of the people of europe, should take a hard stance against the big corporations or ultra-rich people that we saw in the panama papers that were not only putting themselves before tax laws, but also before laws as such. so colleagues, i want to say thank you. i look forward to the vote tomorrow, but i think we have only just started our work. in the new parliament we need to implement and hold our governments, our executive authorities, accountable for what we have done here, so thank you very much.
the commission is not i am not sure that this is the case. i would also like to begin by thanking all those who have been involved in the negotiations here: the commission, the council of ministers and, not least, all the good colleagues here from the european parliament. we've obviously spent many hours together, negotiated all night long. but i think we have achieved a certain amount of progress that we can be very proud of. we should have done so, because i fear that we are - and we risk being - losing the climate fight if we are not ambitious enough! we must be here in the european parliament and we must be among governments across europe. the paradox is that while politicians hesitate, citizens take to the streets and demand action. we see teenagers across europe demonstrating for a better climate and demanding solutions to the climate change that will send people fleeing drought and flooding in the coming years. they are demanding solutions to the air pollution that kills 400 000 europeans every year. too many governments are stuck in narrow national interests that block the important green transition, and the negotiations on the big energy package are unfortunately a good example of this, because even though wind and solar are now cheaper than coal, the green transition to renewable energy is still too slow. although a stronger joint agency, acer, can help ensure that wind energy from the north sea can provide europe with green electricity at the mains, many governments still prefer to keep old coal-fired power stations alive. in our negotiations it was clear that when we in the european parliament tried to strengthen acer, national governments tried to water it down, and when we fought for a more independent acer, some opposed it. it was a struggle to give acer more powers and resources, and it still is, but fortunately we got acer to charge fees, which is absolutely essential for acer to be able to carry out its important tasks. these kinds of struggles are, of course, a big problem, because the lack of common solutions comes at the expense of the climate. we also saw this in the negotiations on the electricity market regulation, where there were member states fighting against open and free energy frontiers. but only by integrating renewable energy across borders can we win the climate fight. fortunately, we have achieved a good result - sometimes not so much because of the council as in spite of it. let me be clear: the fight against climate change is the most important fight! that is why it is so regrettable that many government leaders suffer from what i would call green amnesia. they say one thing in paris when they sign beautiful declarations, but when they sit down to negotiate in brussels, suddenly everything can be forgotten! unfortunately, we saw this last week when our heads of government met at the summit to shake hands on a carbon-neutral europe by 2050. i'm sorry, but we were just talking. but europe must be at the forefront of the green transition and the fight against climate change, and we must invest far more in research and new technologies than we do today. the money can be appropriately found by creating climate taxes on plastics and on aviation fuel and on coal for my sake, and it is time that we put pressure on those governments that are not living up to the agreements that they may make. i would like to thank once again all those who have been involved in all the negotiations we have been through: the commission, the council of ministers and, last but not least, my colleagues here in the european parliament. i think we should remember that in two months' time we will be asking our citizens to go out and vote. as politicians, we cannot and should not ignore the demands of citizens to take the climate fight seriously. we must be inspired by the popular movements and take responsibility. we owe it to our children and grandchildren!
the commission is not i would like to thank the president-in-office. at the end of 2016, the commission presented its 'great energy package'. we're wrapping up this week and looking forward to the next chapter after years of hard work. we also have a lot of work to do in the next term. it can be said that in this one we have focused on adopting legislation which, in the commissioner's excellent words, is the largest overall energy legislation in the history of the eu, but it is only paper if it is not implemented. that is why we will continue to have an important role in parliament in the coming years in ensuring that legislation is actually implemented. it is absolutely crucial to the fight against climate change, and i think it is fair to say that what we have seen over the last few years is that parliament has been the one to help sustain and even raise the ambitions. i think it is important to say that here at the start of a european election campaign. we have set higher targets for energy efficiency and for renewable energy, but the very objective of renewable energy depends on the implementation of acer, the electricity market regulation, since cross-border trade in electricity is the very prerequisite for the green transition. the next period is also about the climate ambitions towards 2050, and to my mind there is no doubt that the eu must lead. that is why we must aim for a co2-neutral eu by 2050. i myself recently witnessed at a climate demonstration in copenhagen that it is clear how much the people are demanding action in this area. we have to take responsibility for that! i would like to conclude by once again thanking the commission, the commissioner and all the members of this house for the excellent cooperation. it's coming along!
i have to say, madam president, the single market is a good thing! but it is a big area and consumers are often the weak link in the eu's single market when things go wrong. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the internal market. that's the kind of tool we're building right now. i think that's a really good thing! collective class action - the fact that you can come together to secure your rights against a company - will mean that we can ensure that we get a much better internal market. we saw it with the dieselgate scandal. the fact that we do not have the possibility of collective action at european level has contributed to the silence of consumers in europe much worse than, for example, in the united states. i am therefore very pleased that we are now taking the first step towards securing a genuinely european instrument that can empower european consumers. we need this because it is the way to ensure that we have an even better single market.
i have to say, madam president, i feel a little like my colleagues in this house have expressed: i simply cannot understand that the commission can boast of the work that has been done. i'm surprised you're so satisfied with it. yes, we have new rules, and yes, it's good that we have them, and that they will apply from 2020. but the big problem is that there are still millions of polluting diesel cars on the roads of europe. a great many of our member states have not even ensured that those cars which do not comply with the rules are recalled and repaired! it can't be true that we can't make it work. i think there are about twenty of our member states which do not comply with these rules. this is a huge problem! the problem with these diesel cars is that they pollute - they damage the environment and they damage people's health. we know that, and we know what cars are involved. i cannot therefore understand how the commission can be satisfied with what has happened when so many of these cars are still on the road. something must be done to ensure that the member states do something - and going forward we must also ensure that something is done! it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action. we must also ensure that, after they have been adjusted and corrected, they are tested independently so that we can be sure that they comply with the rules. as has been said, we need much more transparency on this on a technical level. it must be possible for ngos and others to help to check that the rules we have are being observed. it is therefore of the utmost importance that we ensure that the existing car fleet in europe is also cleaner. it's important for public health, and it's important for our environment and for our climate. we must also prevent these polluting cars from being sold on to eastern europe, where they may not have that much money and therefore may be tempted to buy them. it is not fair that they should have to live with these environmental consequences. we need the commission to act now. it can't go fast enough!
madam president, yes i do, because i find it absurd that you’re preventing a debate. listen, the whole world is watching us today and everyone comes down in the plenary and holds their own homemade speeches and we don’t have a debate on such a crucial topic, because you’re preventing it. i don’t think that’s wise and i don’t think it’s fair. sorry. (applause)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mrs reda, where exactly in the text is this upload filter? please answer!
i have to say, madam president, i must say that it is quite incredible that we should be listening here today to a left wing in particular, which is letting itself be pulled by the big tech giants - tech giants who do not even pay taxes! let's address a couple of the misconceptions that have been in the debate: there's no link tax, there's no upload filter. no matter how much julia reda says it, there is no upload filter! nor are the rights of the individual citizens being restricted, on the contrary, because the responsibility now lies with the platforms. today -- and this is kind of funny -- we're happy to accept that facebook and other giants have poorly educated indians in new delhi to decide what we should have on our platforms and what we should upload. but we will not accept any technology that is not about monitoring the individual, but about monitoring the artwork that you claim the rights to. this is a showdown with the greatest art theft in the history of the world perpetrated by the big tech giants who don't pay taxes. without a strong creative industry, we're going to be economically poorer, and we're going to be spiritually poorer. that is why i hope that a large majority will vote in favour of the agreement we have reached here today.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we stand here today with a victory for the consumers of europe. today, european consumers are buying more and more goods over the internet. they do it across borders, too. it will lower prices and provide a much greater choice for the consumer. but unfortunately it is also true that it can be difficult to see clearly what rights you have as a consumer. with these laws we are on the way to providing european consumers with much better protection. it'll be a lot easier to avoid getting caught. it is really important and i think it is a big step for consumers, not least the fact that you certainly have the right to have your product repaired or to have a new one if it goes wrong. the information requirements for businesses to consumers are also considerably increased. there's a lot of good moves in this! in other words, this is one of the areas where, after a long time and hard work, not least from mrs gebhardt, we have shown that we have created an advantage for consumers when they shop online. so congratulations to the european consumers today!
mr president, i would like to thank you. if we in the eu are to help protect the climate, if we are to achieve our paris goals in 2015, and if we are to create a low-emission economy, then our transport sector must contribute to achieving this goal. that is why the legislation we are about to vote on is an important step in the right direction. this is where we go in and demand that our cars become much more climate-friendly - they have to reduce their co2 consumption. that is why i am glad that we are getting this legislation, and it is particularly thanks to mrs dalia that we have at all come to a conclusion with legislation which, after all, is taking us in the right direction. that said, i would also like to say that it is disappointing that we are not a little more ambitious. the european parliament's environment committee would like to see a 45% reduction in co2 - we get one in 37. that's just not good enough! the young people are standing outside this parliament insisting that we make sure that we are climate friendly. we had the opportunity with this legislation, but we didn't get it. but that is not parliament's fault. that is because the council of ministers does not want to be part of it. if we are to solve the climate problems of the future, our transport sector must contribute - even more than what is available here. that said, i shall probably support the proposal, because it is of course a colossal advance compared to what we have today. we must also keep the commission in the loop to ensure that we also get measurements of whether they actually achieve these co2 reductions on the cars. we're going to be watching you to make sure that the auto industry delivers.
i have to say, madam president, i was down here last fall visiting filipino truck drivers working in padborg. they had been brought to the eu via poland, where they had been given work permits, and then sent around europe for an hourly wage of 15 kr.! 15 bucks an hour, my friends! at the same time, they could see their colleagues getting a much better salary - indeed, a living wage. so, of course, these drivers wondered. why were they left behind? why were they paid so little and worked in such poor conditions? the drivers told us how they were driving through the country roads of europe with exhaustion. they could drive 16 hours straight in the truck because they could take turns driving, and they were being monitored by their boss on the gps. their lives and experiences are the backdrop of the eu's single market. the choice we make in this parliament is quite clear: are we prepared to protect workers or do we want to protect the single market first and foremost? my choice is clear - workers first!
i have to say, madam president, the kyllönen, telička and ertug compromises are a good basis for finally having some proper and balanced rules which both improve the working conditions of european drivers, create not only free but also fair competition for companies, and improve road safety. i therefore hope that a majority will back the great and good work that has been done in the three compromises when we hopefully vote on this package at some point. it is quite obvious that we are dealing with very destructive forces in this house, which will do everything in their power to prevent us from reaching a sensible agreement in this house. these are people who want to continue to compete on very bad terms for the drivers. we must not accept that, so let us vote for these compromises so that we can have a proper agreement.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president, first of all, thanks to frédérique ries for an excellent job. i would also like to thank frans timmermans - it has been a pleasure this time. this is the second time we've had a draw to reduce plastic. last time it was about plastic bags, and then it was a minor war. now i have to say that we have a whole different tone. it is the repentant sinner who has found the way, the truth and the light, and i am so grateful for that. of course, it has also become easier now that it has also become a matter for the people - without, however, accusing frans timmermans of populism. i've had a real commitment. we have a good law here, but we must remember that this is only the first step. hopefully, it is a safe step that will take us forward - in the first place, to stop the influx of pollution. every minute, the equivalent of a truckload of plastic waste is being dumped into the oceans - so much more needs to be done. i would like to warn against all the clever solutions with biodegradable plastics. all of these are just as problematic as ordinary plastic. it was nice that we got banned oxo-plastics, which is really bad: the fake biodegradable plastics that just fall apart and become microplastics. so we need to be vigilant, because there's a huge interest in coming up with smart alternatives. we are continuing the good fight and we have a chance to win it!
blue-card question. – to put it briefly, will you deny that oxo just makes plastics fall apart? will you insist that oxo turns into nature again after hundreds of years? oxo is probably the worst of these crazy degradable products. i know that symphony, which produces plastics, and you will accept that, is very close to tyres. that’s why we are having all these battles in this house on oxo. will you deny that oxo just makes plastic degrade into small pieces? do you really think it’s not the case?
for the ecr group. mr president, there are many good reasons, both concrete and general, to be sceptical about visa liberalisation in relation to kosovo. first of all, there is the impractical argument that there are a number of eu member states which, even today, do not recognise kosovo as an independent state. this makes it difficult for the council to break the deadlock which has surrounded the whole process. but in general, i would say that what worries me and my colleagues in the ecr group is very much the focus on unilateral visa liberalisation rather than the conflicting considerations that exist. looking at areas such as organised crime, we have seen major problems in the western balkans in general in relation to the impact on the eu countries. that is why it is a very sensible measure to apply for a visa. we therefore regret that liberalization has gone too far. in addition, i am personally very concerned about the increasing radicalization we have seen in certain parts of the western balkans, and therefore our general attitude to the whole question of the safety of europeans is that caution should be the guiding principle. in this respect, visas are a very good instrument for filtering the people who are allowed to enter the european union. in general, we feel that the commission should focus more on making return agreements in relation to the many rejected migrants that exist in europe, rather than further visa liberalisations.
mr president, i would like to thank the prime minister for a very inspiring speech. coming from denmark i, of course, know sweden very well and i think what you mentioned, prime minister, that the young people are now asking the older people to act when it comes to climate, is so fundamental, and i think in sweden and in the nordic countries we have actually experience of how we can do things together to be more sustainable. in the energy area for example – electricity – we have now one nordic market because we are starting to integrate. we are employing more renewables than ever and we should be a model for europe. but i want to ask you, in concrete ways, what do you think the european union could do more to develop from a coal and steel union, as you mentioned, to become a real, true climate union? a union where we put climate first in all of our policies. and secondly, prime minister, this response needs to be just, responsible, where all people are included, so how do we ensure, in your view, that in the face of globalisation, we integrate people more? how do we spread the model of labour market participation, labour market organisations that take responsibility, unions and employers? it’s very important to integrate them in our social policy.
the alde group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. let me begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr buzek, for the great work and the good cooperation on this gas directive. congratulations on an important agreement for the future of europe! important because the agreement ensures that gazprom and putin will follow the very key rules of the game for gas trade in europe. the commissioner also said that without the directive, putin would be able to exploit a legal vacuum to further increase europe's dependence on russian energy. of course, we cannot and should not accept that. that is why i am quite satisfied that we can now demand that russian gas should be subject to the same rules as european companies. it's about time. for there is certainly no reason to give special advantages to putin's russia, which is repeatedly undermining human rights and democracy and destabilising our allies, both militarily and in cyberspace, and which has previously shown itself ready to use europe's dependence on russian gas as a genuine geopolitical tool. we in europe should respond by reducing our imports of russian gas instead of increasing imports by building new pipelines. we are all too dependent on imported energy from outside and we should invest much more in becoming truly independent. how so? you might ask. first of all, by improving energy conservation, by investing in energy efficiency - which unfortunately many member states of the european union have historically been too poor - and by investing in renewable energy, which can now compete on market terms and which is becoming cheaper every year. in this way, fighting climate change goes hand in hand with becoming less vulnerable to putin and importing energy from outside. that way, we actually kill more flies with one punch. green investment should not be seen only in the light of putin's russia. this applies in general to the climate fight, which we are losing because we have been trading fossil fuels for good terms for too many years. if we are to have any chance of ensuring that the eu is carbon neutral in the future, it is no use continuing down the fossil track. on the contrary, we must phase out the energy that causes dangerous climate change and harmful air pollution and instead invest in renewable alternatives, thus ensuring that the eu is at the forefront of the climate fight. we have a clear interest in that.
for the ecr group. mr president, this is a matter of the safety of citizens and europeans. it is about the fact that if we in the schengen area have the right to travel on an identity card issued by the national states, then the security must also be in order. the ecr group's position has therefore been to fight from the beginning to the end for the security of national id cards to be at a level comparable to the other permitted travel document, namely a common european passport. that is why we are also pleased with the outcome of the trilogue negotiations, where we have had two biometric markers as a requirement for national id cards. we are also very pleased that fingerprints are now to be placed on the cards. at the same time, we must say that in general, serious work has been done on these rules for the new european identity cards, and we are particularly pleased that we are preserving the voluntary nature of the right of the national states to opt out or opt in to the possibility of having national identity cards. for us, this is a matter of safety. it is about common standards for those who want to have the cards and a high standard for all the countries that have to accept the cards as legal travel destinations. overall, we would like to thank the council, the rapporteur and the commission for the fine result that has come out of the negotiations. the only major challenge we see is that parliament was forced to put an eu flag on the map. we wish we hadn't! but all in all, it is a sensible compromise which the ecr group can support.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the legislation being adopted today marks a new low in the eu's interference in family life as well as in the member states' right to define social conditions themselves. it is almost the height of hypocrisy that a parliament which does not even allow maternity leave for either men or women will dictate to european families how to orient themselves when it comes to ensuring the child the best possible start in life. in the danish people's party we believe that social rights and social competences are a matter for the member states to define. it is the member states which have to collect the tax that pays for these schemes and it is the member states which are responsible for putting them into practice. that is why this is also a debate that belongs in the member states. we therefore have to reject outright the fact that the eu is interfering in social affairs in yet another area, and that this is leaving families and the member states less room to define how we want to organise our welfare states.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i also thank the rapporteur. every day, thousands of people throughout europe are living in unfair working conditions. with low wages, there are bad working conditions, no contracts and no rights. they often have to work multiple jobs just to get by. social dumping is the human backside of the eu's internal market and of free and unrestricted free movement. it is the single market which places the rights of enterprises far above the rights of workers. who put profit before people. and it is a single market that shifts power far from the citizens, far from our elected politicians, and limits our democratic possibilities. the thousands of people who are living with the consequences of this are naturally demanding solutions, they are expecting us to do something effective to stop social dumping, to ensure proper pay and working conditions. but what answer will they get from the eu? they get an answer that is even more about the eu: a european authority, which is going to require a lot of resources and a lot of bureaucracy. when the answer should really be less europe and much more power to the people, the answer is once again more europe and more power to the eu. it's totally frivolous. the citizens do not need more eu authorities, they need a showdown with the single market, they need to regain control of their labour market.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. madam president, i am very pleased that we now have another eu authority: this european labour authority, which is a kind of europol light for the labour market, which can help national authorities to prevent both fraud in benefits and social dumping, for example by means of inspections. 14 million europeans work in another eu country than their own. they pay taxes, contribute to society and, of course, have to be covered by social security like their colleagues if they lose their jobs. people come here to work, not cheat. nevertheless, distrust is growing both towards migrant workers and towards employers, partly because of appalling cases such as the one on the danish-german border, where 200 filipino drivers were held as slaves. for my danish party, sf, freedom of movement and good conditions for migrant workers are central, as is the protection of the danish welfare model. finally, i would like to remind you that we greens would like to strengthen the ela even further by giving european citizens the right to complain directly to them. unfortunately, it was voted down. but despite this defeat, it is a good project, which we of course support.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we take great pride in having a single market so that all of us, with 500 million consumers, can become richer and hopefully safer too. but it does not create growth and security if all the countries do not manage to implement the rules in the same way, but instead speculate on making the rules so that they benefit each individual company equally. i have been rapporteur on several occasions in the committee on constitutional affairs on the report on the ability of our member states to implement the rules we are making. and it is - despite the fact that most people should have gradually become familiar with the rules of the union - ridiculous to see how some countries are constantly dragging it out and dragging it out, even obstructing the implementation of the rules that should actually ensure the single market. it is not enough, we must follow the same rules if we are to have the same prosperity and the collegiality, the camaraderie that the union requires in the internal market.
mr president, i would like to thank you. more and more people are saving for their old age in pension schemes, and more and more are taking it upon themselves to invest the money in the stocks that they, for economic or moral or other reasons, consider to be the foundation of the future. both their private economy and society as a whole. it is fundamentally good that more people are taking personal responsibility and can also do so through investment funds, where the funds are pooled and thus have a greater economic muscle to invest. but it also creates challenges, as we have seen in the area of free movement of capital. especially in relation to private individuals who go out into the big jungle market, where you invest yourself. we need very clear rules on transparency and consumer protection so that people have some basic guarantees when they put their money into the investment funds. this directive does some of that, but not enough, and that is why we refrained from supporting it.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the reason why i ask to speak in this debate is because of the very general problem we have with the basle committee. it is a good thing that the western european countries have come together in a council where we can jointly draw up rules for the free economy and the free movement of capital, etc. but there is a tendency for us, especially here in the european parliament - in the eu - to be all too submissive, all too receptive to everything that comes from the basel committee. the americans, for example, can understand and can say when the demands put forward by the basle committee for negotiation do not fit into the american model. we in denmark, for example, have to fight over and over again for what is at the very heart of our economic system, our housing market, etc., namely the mortgage credit system, simply because it does not fit into the way the basel committee thinks. i could say that the next parliament here in strasbourg and brussels will have a little more will and power to say when the demands coming from basle do not fit into our european or danish system.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to thank high representative mogherini for her words and for keeping the eu together and being clear in language. but, up to now, it has cost israel nothing to continue its old and illegal occupation – and you know that. we must go now from words to some kind of acts. i would remind you also about the letter – just mentioned yesterday – from former foreign ministers and prime ministers, saying that now something must happen. they refer to un resolution 2334 on now taking differentiation. that’s much more than labelling. still peaceful and legal means, but we cut all connections with illegal settlements – that’s business, education, that’s everything. we now also want the list published of all the businesses working at the settlements. i’m sure that, if there is a price, we will help all our very important friends in israel, as well as in palestine, so that they don’t give up hope on the two states and they can still count on us, because words no longer help. you know that as well as i do.
mr president, thank you for this very important debate. i think it’s very important for us, as we are the only institution that is directly representing the people of europe. we are keen to protect their free right to vote in an election without being subject to cyber-attacks, disinformation, vile deception or any other type of meddling in the free right of free elections. and i don’t think we need to be naive. we will see a lot of attacks on our free elections in europe, we have seen it already, and we will see more. therefore, i agree with my colleagues. the platforms need to be very transparent and accountable and follow the law which goes on in normal society and also goes on in the online society; they need to be transparent. but i want to say that democracy is also a way of culture, a way of life, and we need also to agree across all parties to stick to the truth and fight any lies from foreign powers who want to interfere in our elections. we need to stand together and protect our european democracy.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. mr president, this is a very happy day, but it is also time for us to do something about it by ensuring much better controls on the products entering the eu's internal market. i have been a member of the european parliament for 12 years and have worked on product safety for all those 12 years. that's why it's a big day. we have finally succeeded in getting new rules which allow us to control our products much more than before. it is necessary. one of the good news today is that it is now possible to bring controlled goods online from outside the eu into the eu, which is very important. a new study in denmark shows that out of 12 toys bought on an online platform outside the eu and brought in, none of the products complied with the rules. the enforcement regulation gives the authorities a much better chance of stopping these products, checking them and ensuring that consumers are not afraid to buy products. it is a great day, it is an important day, we just need the money now, and now the member states have to deliver. thank you, all of us.
i'm the reporter. i am not sure that this is the case. i would like to thank the we consumers love them online intermediation services when we book hotel rooms, airline tickets, buy clothes, shoes, books, music and much more. then we check the selection and prices through the online booking services. they open up the market to us consumers and to the businesses that use them to sell goods and services. so they're good in many ways, but still they're not really regulated today, it's a bit like the wild west. companies today have really only one choice. either accept the terms offered by the online intermediation services or not be there at all. and many times the terms you get today are very unequal, unfair and at least not very transparent. that's not good enough! that is why it is also good that we have managed to reach an agreement on new rules which will bring much more fairness and transparency to online platforms and to the companies that use them. this ultimately also means that consumers can be much safer when using online intermediation services to buy products. what have we achieved? yes, we haven't quite gotten to the bottom of it, but we're getting started and we're getting to lay the groundwork for legislation that will allow us to have a more regulated online market. we are creating significantly more transparency, and we are also creating demands and more fairness for the companies that use the online services. it's really important, it's really good. in concrete terms, we have achieved much fairer conditions for businesses using online services. we've put together a long list of requirements that any company using an online platform needs to know in the contract they enter into. and that's very important because it creates a lot more fairness, so the company knows what you're exposed to or facing when you use a service. we've managed to get through a lot of things. the commission proposed that updating of conditions should be notified within 15 days, and we have ensured that you also have the right to terminate your contract if you do not think the updated rules are good enough. we have implemented a number of stringent transparency requirements on a wide range of matters. this includes, for example, some of the conditions and main parameters used to rank online platforms. it is very important for the company using the online platforms to know what is the basis of this ranking. ranking is important when consumers are choosing the platform. we have also ensured that business users have a minimum of 30 days notice period if the platform wants to terminate their contract. we've also made sure that many of these requirements apply to search engines. we have also made a great deal of effort to ensure that when these rules are to be implemented and enforced, they are done in an orderly and effective manner. member states are the ones who have to enforce the rules, but we need to make sure that it is done better, because otherwise there is no point in new rules. and we have also chosen to say that, as this is the first legislation in this area, it should not take long before we look more closely at whether there is a need to revise the rules. that is why we have also made a long list of requirements for what are some things that need to be checked when we get to the point where we have to re-evaluate the legislation. but overall, the good thing about this proposal is that we simply create much more transparency for the companies using the online intermediation services, and we also create more fairness. it creates a more level playing field for the companies that use them, and it ultimately means that our consumers who buy goods and services on the platforms can be more confident that they are getting the product they expect. so this is an important step we are taking, and at the same time we are also becoming the ones in the eu who are setting the global standards for these platforms. it is a very important day, so i thank you for the cooperation we have had and look forward to the debate we are going to have tonight.
i'm the captain. i am not sure that this is the case. i thank you again for speaking and i thank you very much for your comments. i share the views, i am glad that we have got this result, which is balanced both in favour of the companies, fair to the platforms and above all also something which will ultimately be of great benefit to our many consumers. it was not a result we would have gotten through with if we had not worked so well together. i would also like to thank the romanian presidency for this. we had some tough but good negotiations and i think we came to a conclusion in a very good way. thank you so much for that. and also to the commission and to the commissioner - had it not been for the help we received from the commission during the negotiations, we would not have got through with this result. so thank you so much for making it work. it shows that when we work together, and there's an openness across the board, we can easily get something done that's really good for our businesses, so we can continue to have some good and useful platforms and at the same time benefit our consumers. i am proud of the result we have achieved here, and i am also aware that this is only a first step. i look forward to the continuation of this work, not least the results of the observatory, and to seeing what can be achieved. i believe that with this legislation we can become the leader of the platform market in europe and in the world in the long run, because it needs to be regulated, it needs to be transparent and it also needs to be fair. we have achieved all that in this legislation. thank you so much.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the legislation which is being adopted here on social security in europe is another sad milestone in europe's continuing attack on the danish model. it is a defence of welfare tourism, it is a defence of social dumping, and it is a step in the fundamentally wrong direction. it is not that these safeguards will mean equal rights for eu citizens and national citizens, in a number of cases they will mean better rights for eu citizens than for national citizens. for example, when it comes to the danish daily allowance: it is completely insane that one should be able to earn danish daily allowance in an insurance scheme which is at a much lower level, and therefore the danish people's party clearly rejected that one should be able to access national welfare benefits in any way without having earned them on exactly the same terms as national citizens. and if we cannot get through with it, then at least we should index these welfare benefits so that they do not have an exorbitantly high level when you take them home, whether it is for social security, daily allowance or the myriad of other welfare benefits to which the eu entitles eu citizens in denmark.
mr president, i would like to thank you. ladies and gentlemen, we are faced today with the fundamental question: how much should the european union really intervene in the national day-care system? and we have to keep in mind that countries have very different systems. a proposal that may work well in one country may have disastrous consequences in another. we must protect the citizens, but we must not undermine well-functioning systems. and quite frankly, the proposal on the table today risks undermining the danish system of unemployment benefits - a system which is built on solidarity between workers. a system where those in work temporarily help those out of work. to give the right to a daily allowance for just one day's work in another eu country and to give the right to take them out of the country for six months is simply to open a floodgate of social dumping. it will have disastrous consequences. so the question is now fundamental: should the eu really interfere in our pay system? my answer is quite clear: no, the eu must stay out of it!
i have to say, madam president, the left party is in favour of the right conditions for migrant workers in europe. no doubt about it. but unfortunately, this is far from the objective of this bill. the proposal now before us creates great legal uncertainty, it risks putting migrant workers in a better position than their colleagues in the country of arrival and it opens the door to a completely unfair export of child benefit and child benefits. the proposal before us is considerably inferior to the one which, unfortunately, we did not get through in an edited form. this is the first proposal from the commission. it is a piece of legislative shenanigans, to put it bluntly, and i would strongly urge that we vote it down.
i have to say, madam president, i very much agree that we must have clear rules to provide social security for migrant workers. but a better balance is needed than that in the balas report. the rights and duties are simply not respected, and national citizens are discriminated against in relation to migrant workers. the three main problems are as follows: first, the right to daily allowance from day one. how much of a connection to the labour market of a country is there if you have only been employed there for a short time? i think the connection to the labour market you came from is greater, therefore a longer earning period, preferably three months. secondly, the right to export daily allowances for six months. there are varying degrees of labour market policies which are very negatively affected by this. and there is no evidence that an increase in the export of child benefit increases the number of jobs. that is why we are fixing the export limit for three months. thirdly, a free choice system for frontier workers, which i simply do not believe in. we need clearer rules.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr president, i would like to thank you very much for your strong and far-sighted speech in this house today, including the remarks on the internal market. i would ask you to bring free trade to the council as well. even when european interests are threatened by communist china. what we are experiencing at the moment is that the european shipping industry is being subjected to unfair competition. we've seen cosco and china shipping merge. we see that they are getting massive government subsidies to scrap their older ships. then the profits from the chinese shipyards are used to sell cheap ships to a chinese state-owned company. so it means unfair competition for the european shipping industry, and they do it with their mouths open. they are breaking the rules of the wto and they are saying outright that they want to take over the market which is currently run by private operators in europe without state aid. we must not be naive, and i hope that you will take this further and that the commission will also look into this matter.
for the ecr group. mr president, what we are dealing with today is more or less a confession. it is a matter of confession in view of the fact that the external borders which have replaced the internal ones with schengen cooperation have never been an effective measure to protect european citizens from external threats, including the danger of illegal immigration. we therefore welcome the fact that the commission - 17 or 18 years after the introduction of schengen - has taken the initiative of creating a genuine border agency. the reason why we in the ecr group cannot support the compromise reached in the trilogue is simply that we are again afraid that too little is too late. we are concerned that there are so many safeguards at play that it will not have the desired effect on europe's security. we are very concerned that we cannot help a third country to deport people to another third country. so basically we are afraid that what we are adopting today is a patchwork solution that will neither satisfy the european citizens nor make schengen cooperation more secure.
i have to say, madam president, we are facing a whole range of climate problems, and i think that has become clear to anyone who has followed developments, and we had a visit from greta thunberg yesterday, who also told us that. in addition, we also have a huge problem of very poor air quality in many of our european cities. this proposal for a directive on cleaner vehicles is actually part of the solution to that. yes, we could have set the bar higher, we could have been more ambitious, but nevertheless we are doing it now, we are going in and setting some binding targets for our municipalities and the public sector when they are going to buy transport vehicles, and that is very important. it doesn't solve our air pollution alone, it doesn't solve our climate problems alone, but it contributes to it. so it is actually a very important directive that is taking us in the right direction. i hope, of course, that the next parliament can be even more ambitious than we have been in this parliament, but after all we must be happy with what is going well. this brings us a step in the right direction.
i have to say, madam president, i have chosen to speak here today because denmark lost a case of principle last week before the court of justice of the european union. what the european court of justice did was to aim a torpedo directly at the strict danish foreign policy. and that in itself is grotesque. the fact is that the danes have never accepted that the eu should interfere in our foreign policy. on the other hand, the danes have been working for years to elect politicians, and this has led to the fact that today there is a very large majority in the danish parliament that is fighting for a strict foreign policy. it is because we recognize that denmark is the country of the danes. not everyone can get into our country. there are a lot of criteria that have to be met, because we want to take care of our own country. it is therefore grotesque to see the eu increasingly meddling and undermining our right to look after ourselves, our right to decide for ourselves who we want to let into denmark.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the today's vote is a climate election. we are in the midst of an acute climate crisis. the question we are considering is whether we want the necessary green transition or not. we have heard mrs von der leyen's answer today, and the answer from mrs von der leyen is a clear no. the answer from mrs von der leyen is no. a 50 percent reduction in co2 emissions by 2030 is not enough to avoid a climate catastrophe. a 55 percent reduction is not enough to avoid a climate catastrophe. we need climate action now. that is why i shall vote against von der leyen and i would urge all those who voted to ensure a green transition to do the same. now is the time to act. you can take action if you vote no today. now is the time to put action behind the words. therefore, vote for the climate. vote to prevent a climate catastrophe. and vote against mrs von der leyen in the vote later today.
mr president, i would like to thank you. one of the most traumatic experiences for a parent is when your children are sick or in the hospital. so imagine going to the hospital with your daughter several times a year because europe's politicians have not acted. nine-year-old ella kissi-debrah lived with her mother and siblings 20 yards [20 m] from the south circular, a busy london road. in just three years, she was hospitalized 27 times. in 2013, she died. the coroner concluded that her death was the result of the severe air pollution in london. camilla appelgren, an environmentalist, mother and former candidate for the european parliament, lives in malta. this year she had to send her children away from malta so they could breathe clean air, so they wouldn't have to be hospitalized over and over again, so they wouldn't suffer the same fate as ella from london. it simply cannot be right that our children's lives are being ruined by diseases caused by air pollution. at worst, our children will die because we don't act. in my city, copenhagen, local politicians are fighting to get the tools to ensure clean air for the children there. between 20 and 30 cases against 20 member states show that the current system does not work. dear commission, dear council, help this parliament to be the european parliament that acts, the european parliament that helps our citizens and local politicians to stop this invisible killer of children and adults.
for the renew group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. the individual never deals with another human being without holding something of his life in his hand. those words come from k. e. løgstrup, a danish theologian and philosopher of religion. løgstrup was concerned with finding a universal basis for ethics, a proper way to treat one another. it sounds simple, but the reality is different. the refugees and migrants detained at the us-mexico border are not being treated properly. on the contrary, they are held in cruel conditions. cruel, especially to the children who are separated from their parents and have no access to water, food and medical care. we simply cannot accept that. when we detain, imprison or otherwise restrict the freedom of people around the world through our migration and refugee policies, we are taking on a huge responsibility. we literally hold the lives of these people in our hands. we must take this responsibility more seriously here in europe, and so must the united states. this is an emergency. with our friends, we should be able to be as honest as possible. therefore, the united states must immediately begin the reunification of these children with their families, and the united states must ensure full reunification with the children and their families so that they can celebrate christmas together this year.
blue-card question. – thank you very much, mr kuźmiuk, for your intervention. having lived in poland i know the importance of the polish forest and i want to hear what you think the polish government and poland is doing to protect the original, very important forest in poland.
i have to say, madam president, in 2014, we not only had elections to the european parliament in denmark, we also had a vote on whether denmark should join the eu patents. it was a vote which we won and denmark joined. but it was a hard debate in which i insisted that patents and what is patented in europe does not apply to life and does not apply to plants. if the epo has not understood the clear political signals, we will have to make it clearer. in jamaica there is a wild pepper plant that is resistant to various types of pests. this resistance has now been patented and we have not yet had a clarification on it. it is extremely important, not only for our plant growers but also for our european democracy, that we get a clear picture of this issue.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. for the past 70 years, the kashmir region has been plagued by violence and instability. many of the advances india has made in the meantime towards modern democracy have not been followed up under kashmir's special status. these include the independent rule of law, the protection of minorities, including sexual minorities, the education of children and the fundamental rights of women. the considerable funds that india has been sending into kashmir for years have been largely stolen by a corrupt elite, and this has happened under the noses of a poor local population. the iron grip that article 370 has held the people of kashmir in for years has never been to their benefit. i would urge that we in this parliament, as champions of basic democratic values and human rights, focus on the positive aspects of the people of kashmir, their women and their minorities, which this new situation may also bring about.
madam president, in the years 2007 to 2015 the danish bank, danske bank, had a department in estonia that worked as a money-laundering central with suspicious transactions for up to eur 200 billion. the estonian authorities warned the danish authorities several times but the danish authorities did nothing. as was mentioned in april, however, the european banking authority came with a report saying that there was no breach in union law and that the danish authorities had done nothing wrong. for me, this shows that there’s something wrong, completely wrong, with the system and that we need to change. the main problem seems to be that the national authorities, which the european banking authority scrutinises, sit on the very board that can accept or reject the report that is critical of the member states. it is an obvious conflict of interest. i think something should be done, and i hope the commissioner agrees and i would like to know what the commission proposes and how to reform the governance of the european banking authority.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. i am not sure that this is the case. my fellow members! the situation in turkey is completely unacceptable. the democratically elected kurdish mayors of zangsfjernes, the left-wing pro-kurdish presidential candidate and former party chairman selahattin demirtaş are in prison. his only crime is exercising his right to free speech. thousands of mayors, parliamentarians and members of the hdp party are also in prison. my colleagues, the repression in turkey must have consequences. the violation of fundamental democratic rights by erdogan must not be accepted, action must be taken. ladies and gentlemen, the eu's billions in aid to turkey should be stopped until basic democratic rights are guaranteed, as the people of turkey deserve, as the democratic opposition in turkey deserves, and as the european taxpayers deserve.
mr president, it is a procedural question. the interpreters do not have time to translate the speaker before the votes are over. so the german speakers of this room have the opportunity of actually understanding what we’re voting about, but the rest of us will miss the votes if the process is not slowed down just a little bit. (applause)
mr president, thank you for the opportunity to continue the debate we have had in the juri committee in recent weeks. it is a bit unfortunate to have a debate in plenary without having had time to really get to the bottom of things in the committees, which are the place of intensive debate in this parliament. but i am in favour of a debate in plenary, which we may perhaps be able to pursue further on the merits in the juri committee where mrs aubry also sits.
mr president, i would like to address my colleagues who said during this debate that this parliament has no influence. you're wrong. this debate itself shows you that you have a voice, that this institution is a forum for you to express yourself, even if i don't agree with your views. there are also committees in this house that are doing the taxonomy of what is a green investment, defining what are sustainable investments. it is therefore within this assembly, in europe, that we will define what green investment is for the future and i hope that the united kingdom will take part in it, after 31 october and in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commission and the council in particular for their presence here today. the european institutions generally have higher ethical standards for openness and for preventing conflicts of interest than most of our member states. it should continue. so when candidates for commissioners are rejected, even though the norms and laws of the countries have been followed, that is correct. if we look at the participants in this debate tonight, seven of the members are from the legal affairs committee and two of the members are from the constitutional affairs committee. that means that nine out of ten of the members who were here today are. it has been a frustrating process, as many have mentioned. there has been a lack of time, there has been a lack of resources, and there has been a lack of knowledge of what is going on. there has also been a lack of transparency, which has been criticised by several members who are not on the committee. but the frustration of the process should never lead members of parliament to break their duty of confidentiality and to divulge confidential documents and information to the media and to other members of parliament, as we have seen happen during the process. hearings in the juri (committee on legal affairs) look at the declarations of interest, and hearings in the professional committees are broader. i would urge that we go back to our committees in this parliament and look for information on how authorities have been set up in each member state, to review our own procedures here in the european parliament and to look at how things are with ombudsmen and with audit courts in other countries. we must also follow the work already begun by the commission and which the next commission will continue to do to establish an independent ethics body. i thank you very much for the debate today and thank you to the council and the commission. i hope we haven't wasted your time too much.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. madam president, erdogan's attacks on our pro-democracy and kurdish allies in the fight against daesh are totally unacceptable. we must not let down the courageous kurdish men and women who fought on the front lines against the terrorists and the assad regime. the turkish invasion is a disaster. it is a catastrophe that will drive tens of thousands of civilians from their homes and open the door to daesh in the middle east and europe. mrs mogherini, as we speak, civilians are being bombed by the turkish military. civilians are dead in the streets! mrs. mogherini, it's time to act. the eu must speak out against erdogan and trump. the eu must beat the shit out of erdogan. our allies died for us, now it's time for us to stand up for them!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her great work and cooperation on this file. we, as greens, are happy with the report as it stands, especially because it covers several social issues which we believe should be addressed in the coming mandate at a european level. we are very pleased to see that the report supports giving the union’s social goals a much higher priority, both when it comes to the coming legislative framework from the commission and also when it comes to financial resources within the next budget. another important aspect to address from a green’s perspective is the importance of combating gender inequalities in the labour market. we are therefore pleased that we, with this report, make it clear to the commission that we want a proposal for a directive on pay transparency in order to once and for all close down the unacceptable gender employment and pay gap that we see across the union. the same goes for the pension gap. finally, we are very pleased that the report pushes for a solution to tackle long-term unemployment, brings focus to the inclusion of people with disabilities in the labour market, and – last but not least – calls for initiatives at european level to ensure platform workers’ rights and social protections, regardless of their employment status. these are all areas where we’ll keep a close eye on the commission’s legislative actions in the months and years to come.
mr. chairman, please. aminah mahdini, 73 years old, killed by shell. mohammed yussuf hussein, 11 years old, killed by a grenade. ibrahim al-mussah, 3 years old, badly wounded in the leg. hussein ali klai, two years old, severely burned. the list of victims of erdogan's invasion of northeastern syria is long, indeed terribly long. the turkish military and islamist militias have bombed civilian urban areas, executed civilians in the open street and are accused of using chemical weapons. we have seen how trump has failed our pro-democracy and kurdish allies in syria. we have seen how erdogan has continued his enterprise while the eu has failed. and yesterday we saw how putin and erdogan at a meeting in russia decided how they would share the spoils in syria. as we speak, turkish and russian military forces are preparing to move into the main kurdish and christian population centers in syria. erdogan's stated goal is ethnic cleansing. ladies and gentlemen, if we suspend the customs union between the eu and turkey, erdogan's economy will collapse. erdogan will thus be forced to his knees and the turkish invasion will stop. ladies and gentlemen, we can stop erdogan. it is a question of political will. my fellow members, it is time to act.
madam chairman! i'm worried sick. erdogan is directly threatening europe with sending millions of migrants to the european continent. let me put it this way: the eu system has failed, in that it has effectively handed over control of the external borders to erdogan. at the same time, the eu system is filling turkey's coffers with billions of euros of taxpayers' money. the european union has also failed utterly and disastrously in protecting its external borders, which are as secure as ever. now erdogan is directly threatening us with the same chaos we saw in 2015, when europe was sanded by migrants. before we look back, we risk a situation where jihadists equipped with european passports travel to europe for christmas, so that peaceful european citizens have to run for their lives to the christmas markets. the eu elite seems to be getting along. it's weak, ridiculous and grotesque. to make matters worse, a large majority in this parliament recently refused to smash erdogan's coffers and to exclude turkey from eu membership forever. it's a joke. i know. and that is largely the fault and responsibility of this parliament.
mr president, i have an oral amendment. i have been approached by many would like to support this but have been worried about the consequences for refugees and civil society. that’s why i’m putting forward this oral amendment that means that the whole amendment, including the oral amendment, will be like this: ‘freeze all payments of funds to turkey’ and – here comes the oral amendment – ‘excluding the aid to civil society and refugees’ – end of oral amendment – ‘until the end of the invasion of north-eastern syria’. (applause)
madam chairman! i am not going to go into the details of the matter. thank you for putting climate on the agenda. this is happening at a crucial moment, as the european green deal will be coming into being very soon. we must ask questions and help each other find the right answers and the best tools. we must do this without losing european competitiveness and jobs. because we can. we can and must look at the climate challenge in the light of the business opportunities that clearly lie within it. the climate challenge presents industrial and commercial policy opportunities which the eu must seize. this must be done in close cooperation with the over 900 000 smes that form our economic backbone. the market is the largest and strongest muscle in any society. we need to show that the eu knows how to use it wisely, efficiently and innovatively so that its efforts to reduce co2 emissions create more jobs and improve competitiveness. there is a gift in this assignment. that is the obvious logic, that is the epp's thinking and that is how the eu should work. only an eu that believes in free trade and in the ability and willingness of businesses to take good care of the planet can make the green transition.
i have to say, madam president, i am convinced that this parliament has the will to tackle the climate challenge and to consider it as a matter of urgency. if we are to achieve the goals of the paris agreement without putting our societies on hold, our democracy out of control, and limiting our freedom and the opportunity to live the life we want, and if we are to hand over the planet to our descendants in a better condition than we got from our ancestors, then we must use the strongest muscle in the body of society, the market. the market which supports millions of jobs as a vital condition for the nations and families of europe. that is why the debates at cop25 will be filled with discussions on how the logic of the market can best contribute to reducing co2 globally. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the creation of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, etc. the voters of europe have brought us together in this parliament and in the council in a way that it is crucial that we find a way of working together. so i really want to ask the council and the commission how you are going to get together and make the most of the momentum where the eu is showing the rest of the world how europe is able to deliver the most sustainable co2 reduction through the way we use our market.
i have to say, madam president, i was sitting this morning having breakfast with my fourteen-month-old daughter, and i was thinking about this debate on climate change. the reality is that if we don't act, the children who play in the playground today will grow up in a completely changed world with devastating storms, floods, droughts, famine and millions of climate refugees. we owe it to future generations to act. the good news is, we can make it if we act in time. the eu is failing the paris agreement if we only reduce co2 emissions by 55% by 2030. we need to get up to 70% to get to the finish line. ladies and gentlemen, when you vote, think of the future! ladies and gentlemen, vote for the climate action we need now!
blue-card question. – these are words in the polish constitution. should not all polish citizens be treated equally in poland?
i have to say, madam president, równi w prawach' - equal in rights. these words are enshrined in the polish constitution. because according to the polish constitution, all poles have equal rights. but in poland today, the reality is different. because in poland today, all poles do not have equal rights. poland's sexual minorities are not equal to their heterosexual compatriots. because in poland today, there are so-called lgbt-free zones. if you're a member of a sexual minority, you're seen as a threat to society. the polish authorities are taking away your rights - and they're doing it solely because of who you love or how you identify your gender. with their assault on the lgbt community, the polish authorities are committing a crime against the polish constitution and they are committing a crime against poles. not only the thousands of transgender, gay and bisexual poles, but also the vast majority of all poles who want equal rights for all. if poland does not want to guarantee the right of polish sexual minorities to live in peace and freedom, then europe must intervene. because unlike the polish government, we believe in the words of the polish constitution: 'równi w prawach'!
i have to say, madam president, i stand here today as a member of the european parliament because i believe in trade as a unifying force in the world. and i'm also standing here today because i believe in the rule of law, i believe in laws, and i believe in institutions. the wto is an institution, an organisation which is absolutely fantastic and unique in the world, almost on a par with the european union. it allows us to act together under common rules, but if we have common rules, we must also ensure that those common rules are respected. that is why we have the panels and that is why we have the appeals board. that is why it is critical, it is fundamental, that we no longer have the appeal body after 11 december. i am glad that we in the european union are taking this very seriously and that the commission is negotiating a solution. because as members of this institution which is often criticised - the european parliament and the european union - we know that reforms are not achieved by abolishing the institutions, but by engaging in negotiations on reform. no institution is perfect - neither the eu nor the wto - but perfection comes from trying and trying again, not from giving up. and a big thank you to cecilia malmström for being here tonight and for the last five years as trade commissioner. for me, it's a gd that's very close to me. when i was a trainee at the commission, i was a trainee in the legal service in the commerce department.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the israeli settlements in the occupied palestinian territories are not only a clear violation of international law, they are also a deliberate attempt to undermine the possibility of a peaceful two-state solution. we must not accept that trump and netanyahu continue to trample on the human rights of the palestinians. it is vital that the eu stands united and upholds international law. we need an import ban on goods from the illegal israeli settlements. we need recognition of the palestinian state and we need a free and viable palestine.
i have to say, madam president, i attended cop25 in madrid last week and i think my colleagues from all the political groups in this parliament who also attended will agree with me that the message from the vast majority of countries and delegations we spoke to was that the eu should step up even more clearly on the global stage as the role model that we alone can fill. as a bourgeois liberal, as a christian democrat and as a danish conservative, i believe that we do this best in the way we work with our industries and companies to enable them to change their production methods and energy consumption in a co2-neutral direction. we can only do this in the european parliament if we cooperate constructively, technologically neutral and, above all, based on evidence, and we can only do this if we create a green industrial policy that further improves europe's competitiveness, creates more jobs and strengthens us so that we are always ready to adapt so that the next generation does not have to face the great crisis and emergency that we are facing right now.
mr president, i would like to thank you. what we're discussing right now is the foundation of life on earth. the extinction of the animals and insects that pollinate our plants is not only a loss to our nature and biodiversity, it is a threat to our entire ecosystem and food production. in denmark alone we have lost more than 50 species of bee in a short time, and we see the same serious trend in other pollinators: butterflies, beetles, flies. we need to take much better care of these tiny creatures that have such an infinitely large impact on the world around us. we must stop dispensing with dangerous bigeye. we need a fundamental reorientation of eu agricultural aid to make room for nature and sustainability. so, ladies and gentlemen, vote for the stewards, vote for the resolution!
mr president, did we not miss a vote on the original text to recital p by roll call?
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. i would like to thank the president-in-office. freedom of expression, the right to organise, the right to freedom of assembly are the cornerstones of the european convention on human rights, which not only the eu countries but also russia have signed. we have seen in recent years that fundamental democratic rights, which we took for granted, have come under pressure. authoritarian regimes are actively working to destroy civil society. we see it in the eu under orbán, we see it in israel under netanyahu, and we see it in russia under putin. let us send a very clear signal today. we cannot accept the violation of basic human rights. we will not accept attacks on civil society. we cannot accept that the russian government should shirk its obligation to guarantee the russian citizens freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and freedom of association.
