the next item on the agenda is the debate on the report of mr norbert lins and mr bart staes, on behalf of the special committee on the union pesticide authorisation procedure, on the union pesticide authorisation procedure (2018/2153 (ini)) (a8-0475/2018).
member of the commission. – mr president, yes, of course, european citizens expect safe and healthy food – and rightly so. however, while ensuring food safety remains an imperative, it is no longer sufficient in itself. increasingly, citizens have concerns about how their food is produced, about the sustainability of the food system and about environmental protection. we can only meet these expectations if we come together, learn lessons from recent challenges and move forward in the interests of all citizens. in this context, i would like to thank your house for having set up this excellent special committee on the union’s authorisation procedure for pesticides (pest) last year, notably following the commission’s report on the implementation of the directive on the sustainable use of pesticides, the european citizens’ initiative and the debate on glyphosate. the committee’s work is very important as we all aim to ensure transparency and an evidence—based food safety system, dispelling any doubts european citizens may have as to the neutrality of science, because the main challenge is how we can we guarantee that the science is excellent, perfect and neutral, and not biased. so i am pleased to have this opportunity to discuss the pest committee’s report with you today. this special committee was set up in december 2017, following the renewal of glyphosate’s approval for a further five years. its mandate was to analyse the current eu system of approval for active substances and authorisation of plant protection products. it was also asked to identify areas for possible improvements. one of the key outcomes of the pest committee’s assessment is the need to restore trust in the eu system, in particular trust in the scientific evaluation of a substance and trust in the risk management phase. a high level of transparency is critical to this: firstly, making all studies used as a basis for risk assessment publicly available, and, secondly, the utmost transparency on discussions and positions held in the regulatory committee which decides which active substances to approve. i think that it is safe to say that we have come a long way since last year. the commission’s proposal of april 2018 on the transparency and sustainability of eu risk assessment in the food chain aims to rebuild trust in the system. it addresses many of the pest committee’s recommendations, notably, firstly, transparency during risk assessment, secondly, the quality and reliability of studies, and, thirdly, improving risk communication. as i already stressed last december during our debate on the proposal for a revision of the general food law, european citizens have expressed in recent years such a clear and repeated demand for more transparency in the way risk assessments are conducted and i have been carefully listening to them and active since the beginning of my mandate on this issue. i have also carefully read the resolution on glyphosate that you voted on a year ago, where you stressed that the european union’s authorisation procedure, including the scientific evaluation of substances, should be based only on published studies. i believe that it is through greater transparency that we will increase the confidence of citizens in the risk assessment system. transparency can help us to avoid potential bias in science. it is crucial to improve trust in the eu evidence-based food safety system and in science in general. i am confident that, when adopted, this proposal will greatly help in this respect. on this proposal, i thank you once again for your plenary vote last month and for the constructive first trilogue, which i am pleased took place this afternoon. given the importance of this issue for european citizens, i know you will work actively to make progress in the discussions with the council to allow an agreement to be found in this legislative term. you can, of course, count on me and my services to work energetically with you to achieve this objective in our role as an honest broker, and i know that dg sante and the pest committee have had a very good collaboration in the whole period of building this report. this would allow the new regulation to apply as soon as possible, including in the pesticides sector. but, even before this proposal, in the area of pesticides, i had taken a number of steps to increase citizens’ trust in the decision-making and risk management process. for the most sensitive files, such as glyphosate, neonicotinoids and endocrine disruptors, the commission now has dedicated websites. these sites list all the different versions of the draft proposals and detailed minutes of the discussions held with member states. equally, the commission receives a high number of requests for access to documents on pesticides. since last april, all documents to which access is given have been made publicly available. in addition, with the proposal revising the comitology regulation, the commission aims to increase voting transparency at the appeal committee level, making the votes of member states’ representatives public. in its report, the pest committee rightly notes that the eu has one of the most stringent systems in the world to regulate pesticides, but that, of course, it needs to be improved. i agree. there is no such thing as a perfect system. it is always possible to improve procedures to approve active substances and authorisations of plant protection products. with this in mind, we are currently carrying out a regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit) to evaluate our pesticide legislation. this includes both the regulation on plant protection products and the regulation on pesticide residues and will soon be finalised. its objective is to identify areas where improvements are needed. i want to take this opportunity to welcome the parliament’s focus on this issue. in addition to the pest committee’s forthcoming report, the member of the european parliament, pavel poc, has also examined the implementation of the plant protection regulation and the parliament’s research services have already produced a study on this topic. we also have the scientific advice mechanism’s (sam) opinion on pesticides and the findings of the audits conducted by the commission services in the member states. please be assured that all of these outputs will feed into the commission’s analysis as we move ahead, and the pest committee report will provide valuable input for this exercise. while improvements within the current legal framework can be put in place swiftly, given the timing it will be for the next commission to decide whether to propose changes to the legislation that ultimately would have to be adopted by the parliament and council. to conclude, i would like to stress that we all share the same goal: to maintain food safety, protect citizens’, animals’ and plants’ health, and to safeguard the environment. i want to thank you once again for the pest committee’s engagement and the valuable work undertaken by the pest committee and your house. in particular, i would to thank the chair, mr andrieu, the vice-chairs, the co-rapporteurs, mr lins and mr staes, as well as the shadow rapporteurs. i look forward to the final adoption of the report on wednesday and i assure you once again that all your precise, detailed and specific conclusions will be duly taken on board. we will continue to work tirelessly on increasing transparency, building trust and improving the sustainability of our food safety system. the commission will assess carefully the final conclusions and recommendations in the context of its refit evaluation of the pesticides legislation.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs on the great work they have done and you, commissioner, on your involvement in these sensitive issues. we have been working in committee for months, listening to the experts and analysing the procedures for the authorisation of pesticides, both community and member state. i understand and share the objectives of transparency, of ensuring the level of protection of human health, of increasing consumer confidence or reducing administrative burdens. however, we must avoid any further questioning of the results of scientific opinions on the basis of ideological factors which affect the capacity for innovation and competitiveness. the increasing media coverage of decision-making on pesticide use requires that this debate be brought back to the technical and scientific level. decisions on pesticides must be made solely and exclusively on the basis of scientific criteria, without political or ideological interference. i would like to remind you - as the contact person for parliament and efsa - that this agency is independent and scientifically sound, and that its work is exclusively subject to the regulation in force. but it must not be forgotten that the procedure used by the union to authorise plant protection products is one of the strictest in the world. the fact is that there is no such thing as zero risk, and the use of these products also involves risks, which can always be minimised; and i am talking about doses, the time of application or the application procedure. finally, commissioner, i think it would be very interesting if the commission prepared a communication to discuss and debate the revision of legislation on plant protection products, in order to unify criteria and standardize risk analysis procedures. i think this is very necessary.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing measures to ensure the health of citizens, and that health is ensured by controlling the environment and food. it is important that we ensure that plant protection products are used correctly and that they have the desired effect on health and the environment. we must also help to ensure that fruit and vegetables can continue to be produced in the european union. i think we can all agree on this, but to ban for the sake of banning is neither wise nor logical. we must make decisions based on scientific criteria. our institutions, with efsa at the forefront, are in a position to provide information, to offer transparency, security and certainty to european citizens. let us therefore leave the scientists to their work and, from the political point of view, let us ensure that there are the means for them to continue their work without politicizing science, because we will not be doing the citizens any favors if we offer them ideological messages and distorted opinions instead of scientific certainty, as in the case of glyphosate. that is what i want to say to you today, in addition to thanking you for your work, especially my colleague mr lins, who i know has done a very thorough job and a great deal of effort with this document.
madam president, i would like to congratulate all the participants in the special committee on the union's pesticide authorisation procedure and especially the rapporteurs, because i think that the resolution finally adopted in committee, and which we are debating today, is a good proposal. i want to make it clear that i support any initiative that involves greater transparency, more information for consumers, increased consumer confidence and a reduction in administrative burdens, as well as ensuring the quality of scientific advice. of course, supporting these initiatives, within the framework of the european union's pesticide authorization procedure, has been all the work that has been done. however, in view of the increasing media coverage of decision-making on the use of these products, which is sometimes completely outside the realm of scientific knowledge, i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we should try to bring the debate back to the technical and scientific sphere of the institutions. however, i think it is a good agreement and deserves to be approved by all when the vote is taken.
madam president, we can now say more clearly: the authorization of glyphosate did not have the guarantees it should have. a large majority of this house recognises this in the special committee set up on the initiative of the green group. the authorisation process for pesticides in the european union is too vulnerable to conflicts of interest. the european agencies should now assess in an independent, objective and transparent manner the effects of pesticides on our health and the environment, starting, of course, with glyphosate, which the world health organisation considers to be potentially carcinogenic. we are asking the house to make 'final' assessments based on scientific data and not on the accounting data of multinationals like monsanto. and this - let's not kid ourselves - is thanks to the struggle of the movement for healthy and sustainable agriculture and food. we will continue to work for a europe that puts our health and the environment first.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate my colleague angelika mlinar, because this report is committed to a pedagogical method par excellence to curb inequality; a procedure that sums up very well the phrase 'lead by example'. because here we propose concrete measures to make the european institutions an example in terms of equality, not just in what they say but in what they do. therefore, incorporating more knowledge, evaluating in a sincere and honest way what we do internally and promoting another way of doing with political and budgetary commitment to promote parity is basic to truly become a reliable and fully legitimate reference. the reflection advocated here and the measures taken are a necessity, not a whim. because there is no balanced representation between men and women in these seats; because there is no such parity in the selection and appointment of the people who run our administration; because we continue to record some incidents of harassment in which the sexist component, together with the abuse of power, undermine the legitimacy of the effort we make with reports and legislation to make the effects of inequality disappear; because we continue to fail in basic aspects of our institutional communication. i myself had to write to the president of parliament because the iconic representation of european citizenship in a very visible campaign, which was placed in luxembourg square, was basically male. in short, the problems that sexism produces in areas such as employment, social rights and security are represented here. moreover, this report is not just a collection of sound proposals. it's a bet on real leadership: another of our institutional missions. inequality is the result of values internalized in many subconscious minds. it is the result of stereotypes that lead many people to view aberrant situations as normal. to drive change requires a committed attitude from each of us that dismantles these outdated schemes based on proposals, actions and results. in short, credible references, initiative, consistency and continuity in our institutional action. let us hope that the far-right populism, which wants to return us to the past, which openly defends inequality and downplays gender violence, will not succeed in turning this project into a wet paper in the next elections. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the answer is 'blue card'. mr sośnierz, thank you very much for your question. you just used a stereotype of the status of women. women are absolutely prepared for all kinds of jobs and responsibilities. and what we are denouncing here is that we do not have the same opportunities. in fact, speaking of driving, i'll tell you this: when i learned to drive, my teacher told me that all the studies that were being done showed that women were better drivers because they took fewer risks, they did it more safely and caused fewer accidents. we are also working with the european institutions to reduce road accidents. surely, if there were more women driving, the situation would be better.
madam president, every individual has the right to choose what to believe or whether to believe or not, and this right must be protected and preserved through the eu’s internal and external policies. on the one hand, we are happy to see that all dimensions of freedom of religion and belief have been reflected in the final report – not just religious freedoms, but also freedom of thought, conscience and belief. also, references to the increasingly problematic fate of non-believers and atheists, as well as to the right of apostasy, to change religion or not to have a religion, were included in the report. on the other hand, we regret that the right to voice satirical or critical opinions of religions or religious authorities as a legitimate expression of freedom of thought or artistic creation wasn’t taken into account. we also insist on the need for the special envoy’s mandate to be complementary and coordinated with that of the eu special representative on human rights so that any eu action on freedom of religion or belief is placed within the framework of eu’s human rights policy.
the rapporteur. madam president, i would like to begin by paying tribute - before i go into the matter - to pawel adamowicz - the mayor of gdansk, who has just been killed as a result of the attack he suffered yesterday - a true defender of rights and freedoms in this europe threatened by the emergence of dark forces. his murder is a european tragedy, and i want to begin my speech today by paying tribute to him and saying that his fight for freedom and rights is the fight, and will continue to be the fight, of everyone. i would also like to begin by expressing my gratitude to marisa matias for the preparation of this report, as well as to the teams that have made it possible for us to have, for the first time, put a central issue, such as taxation, at the heart of gender equality policies. we cannot go one more minute into such a fundamental area, which defines our model of well-being and our resources and how we deal with, how we collect and how we spend our resources, without this being done without any kind of gender perspective. and it's important because it allows us to go on the offensive on a gender equality agenda that needs to be extremely ambitious. i have to say that in the four years that i've been here we've had an extremely timid equality agenda. most of the directives on equality are stalled in the council, whether it is the directive on the representation of women on boards of directors, or the whole process we had to go through with the withdrawal of the directive on maternity leave, and also the difficulties we are having with the ratification of the istanbul convention. we've had an extremely shy legislature on equality. and we have to be aware that, at this moment, there are forces that are emerging in a brutal way at the level of the european union, that are calling into question fundamental principles, such as, for example, that there is gender violence, by political formations that are getting a lot of votes in the european union, as, for example, we have just seen recently in andalusia. and, by the way, i would like to congratulate all those who will be taking to the streets in spain tomorrow - in solidarity with the andalusian women - following the aberrant agreement that has been reached, which is also a real disgrace to the equality of people because of the participation of that party. but these forces are putting the foundations in question. we cannot go back to debating whether or not there is gender-based violence. we need to go on the offensive, with a gender equality agenda that is really ambitious, fighting violence, fighting wage inequality and including new forms of discrimination that have never been addressed before. for example, taxation, which is the subject of this report. and so, starting to have public policies that look at how our tax systems, both in direct and indirect taxation, tackle inequality is very important. and this report, for example, if we talk about the question of direct taxation, it states how in many member states of the european union we have seen that the obligation to do so, the possibility of taxing joint income discourages the second supplier of that declaration from entering the labour market. and that is direct discrimination which encourages women to have difficulty in accessing the labour market. or, if we talk about indirect taxation - and this has been pointed out by many movements in many countries, in france and elsewhere - how is it that, at the moment, products which are women's basic necessities are loaded with a luxury vat? this is absolutely intolerable. and also, another of the things that report points out, which is very important. we have to look at the different consumption patterns between men and women. and if you look at them, it is very clear that women are now paying more vat on average than men. so neither the european semester nor all the debates we are having on taxation, which have been very important in this mandate, can continue to be absolutely blind to the issue of gender equality and taxation. and so this report, and i end with this, calls for us to tackle this phenomenon in an ambitious way now and, above all, in the next legislature, and to recover that ambitious and courageous gender equality agenda which is what the european union needs.
madam president, i am speaking to highlight the problems of a sector - the valencian citrus sector - which is of great importance to my community, to spain and to the european union, because valencia is the main exporting region of the union, with a turnover of over 2 000 million euros, and now its 250 000 jobs are threatened by the crisis in the sector. in the first two months of this marketing year alone, more than eur 130 million has been lost due to adverse market conditions and 'low, very low' prices paid to producers. the sector needs solutions and that is why i am asking the european institutions, first, to assess the impact on valencian citrus fruit of imports from third countries such as egypt, south africa or turkey; to harmonize customs controls to prevent unfair practices; and to urgently implement the new european legislation against the abuse of large intermediaries in price fixing. europe needs to provide solutions because it needs its agriculture.
madam president, the spanish government has denied open arms permission to continue saving lives in the mediterranean. it cannot leave barcelona with the perverse argument that since malta, italy and libya do not offer a safe port to disembark shipwrecked people, it is not safe to rescue people and therefore the states that do not comply with international law will cause rescues to be impossible. a perverse argument, that is. they also say the ship does not have enough capacity to carry a large number of people on board. as if this were a luxury cruise ship and not a vessel dedicated to the rescue of shipwrecked people who, according to international law itself, do not count as either passengers or crew. according to the united nations, 2,275 people died in the mediterranean last year. do you think that with this drama we can afford to block ships whose only mission is to try to reduce so much human suffering? with every port that is closed, with every rescue ship that does not set sail, with every immigrant who drowns, our european values are also sinking.
madam president, the same story is often repeated throughout europe. a multinational company settles in one territory because of the great advantages and facilities it receives and, once these are exhausted, it closes down to produce elsewhere with lower labour and environmental costs. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations on the new agreement with the united states, which is to be signed in brussels on 1 january. and he wants to close, he doesn't want to sell, because he doesn't want to have competition for his new factory. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that is why the works councils are asking, and our political group is also asking the spanish government to use the constitutional mechanisms to stop the closure of the factories in coruña and avilés through public intervention by the state, whether total or partial, temporary or indefinite, but to guarantee that employment will continue, that these plants will continue and that the drama that is happening will be avoided.
madam president, once again we find companies which, receiving large subsidies and aids, close their production facilities as the only answer to some difficulty. i mean companies like alcoa, over 700 workers affected. vodafone, 1 200 jobs pending in an employment regulation file. endesa and its announcement of the closure of the andorra thermal by 2020, without an alternative plan for a depopulated region. companies put their business plans ahead of employment. but it is the governments - the government of spain - that must adopt solutions that go through a productive model where the weight of industrial gdp grows; with the budget increase in r&d&i; with public companies in strategic sectors of the economy and the repeal of the labour reforms promoted by different european institutions. since the beginning of the crisis, workers have suffered the consequences of their wrong policies. this is not the way. they are beginning to put economic and social measures in place that put workers at the centre of the action.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, the migratory situation in the mediterranean sea has improved significantly over the last years in terms of the number of arrivals. in total in 2018, approximately 150 000 irregular arrivals were registered at our external borders in the mediterranean. this represents a fall by a quarter compared with 2017 and is the lowest level in five years. this total for 2018 was also 92% below the peak of the migratory crisis in 2015. this shows that our resolute and comprehensive action and our engagement with key partner countries have paid off and should continue to be pursued. the number of deaths at sea remains too high, of course, and efforts must continue to bring it down. but in 2018 this number also decreased by a quarter since 2017, and on the central mediterranean route alone, the decrease is more than 50%. the unhcr estimates that in 2018 the libyan coast guard rescued or intercepted nearly 50 000 migrants at sea. the eu holds an important stake in that number, and i would do like to start by referring to recent developments regarding libya and the eu emergency trust fund for africa. since 2014, the european union has mobilised eur 338 million on migration-related projects in libya, eur 318 million under the eu emergency trust fund for africa, and eur 20 million as bilateral assistance. one third – eur 91 million – was granted to support the libyan coast guard in the form of training, including on human rights and equipment to set up basic operational rooms for the coast guard in tripoli and to support the development of libya’s own maritime rescue coordination centre. eunavfor operation sophia has so far provided training for a total of 237 coast guard personnel, and the european asylum support office (easo) has provided training on access to the asylum procedure. regarding our support inland in libya, an important component of the eu emergency trust fund programme consists of eur 134.7 million in assistance and protection services to stranded migrants. it also covers voluntary humanitarian return assistance by the international organization for migration (iom), including reintegration support, which has benefited over 16 000 migrants in 2018 and over 19 000 migrants in 2017. the eu entirely supports the evacuation of asylum seekers and refugees from libya in the framework of the evacuation transit mechanism (etm) by unhcr. since its start in 2017, this has so far benefited over 2 800 persons. finally, on 4 december 2018, following a month of negotiations with the authorities, the unhcr – again with eu support – was able to open a gathering and departure facility in tripoli. the facility is the first open centre in libya, hosting migrants released from detention centres in view of resettlement. nevertheless, a number of challenges remain on all mediterranean routes, and they are very different from one another. the european council conclusions of june last year set out clear guidance for priority action on each route. hence we will continue taking forward the implementation of existing policies on the eastern and central mediterranean routes. on the eastern mediterranean route, numbers remain low, but the significant increase of irregular arrivals at the greek-turkish land border shows that we must keep a vigilant attitude to any shifts along the route. in this respect, cooperation with turkey under the eu—turkey statement, as well as with our western balkan partners, is essential. our work with neighbouring mediterranean countries on the more pressing issues has been complimented with further engagement with countries further afield in africa. the regional dialogue in recent years, the rabat and khartoum processes and the valletta action plan represent useful frameworks for a comprehensive and deep cooperation with african partners. they are supplemented by a robust set of funding instruments, including the eu emergency trust fund for africa, through which the eu has been able to mobilise more than eur 4 billion for actions across the main african migratory routes. new cooperation initiatives are also in the pipeline, like the upcoming eu—au ministerial meeting of 21—22 january 2019, which will contribute to strengthening region—to—region ties and addressing common challenges. it will also establish a regular forum for discussions with our african partners. regarding the reform of the eu asylum rules, the council has worked intensively on these complex files during successive presidencies. fruitful negotiations have taken place between the council and the european parliament, which resulted in substantial progress on five of the seven proposals. the romanian presidency stands ready to continue these efforts in order to make progress where possible. for other important legislative files, like the schengen borders code, the visa code and the immigration liaison officers regulation, the presidency hopes to conclude the ongoing trilogues with parliament before the elections. regarding the reform of the european border and coast guard, both co—legislators are putting a lot of effort into reaching a position which will allow them to start interinstitutional negotiations. however, there are still significant disagreements between member states on some major issues of the asylum reform, in particular the dublin regulation. while all member states agree on the importance of striking the right balance between responsibility and solidarity, it has so far proved impossible to find a compromise on the concrete elements of that balance. it has been argued that enhancing the responsibilities of member states should be compensated by a predictable system which is capable of providing relief to frontline member states faced with a crisis. striking the right balance is not only about finding the right formula for the distribution mechanism. solidarity can be expressed in different ways. the complexity of the situation is demonstrated by the fact that, notwithstanding the important decrease in the number of arrivals, there is still a high number of asylum applications, a big proportion of which are lodged in countries other than the frontline member states. this shows that there are significant secondary movements which will need to be tackled if we want to come to a structural solution for the issue at stake.
member of the commission. – madam president, i feel like we have been here before, discussing again and again the same issue in similar circumstances. however, while the context has changed and irregular migrant arrivals have dropped drastically, certain political attitudes have unfortunately not changed and so we find ourselves here again. first of all, let me state that i am relieved that a solution has been found that allowed all the migrants on board the two ngo vessels to disembark in malta. but also let’s not fool ourselves; having 49 people – 49 – on boats at sea for almost three weeks is not what the european union stands for. (applause)it is even more shameful to think that this happened during the christmas period. the european union is about human values and solidarity and we are all determined to uphold these values. but if human values and solidarity are not upheld, it is not europe. at the commission we spared no effort to call for and coordinate relocation pledges among member states and make this disembarkation possible. i was myself, day and night, in direct contact with a number of ministers. i have also called publicly on all member states to show more solidarity. this is a message i will keep repeating because we cannot continue to negotiate with human lives at sea. first, i wish to commend malta, as one of our smallest member states, for demonstrating such solidarity and i plan to visit malta very soon. (applause)i would also like to thank all the member states that agreed to receive the migrants who disembarked in malta: germany, france, portugal, luxembourg, the netherlands, romania, slovenia, ireland and italy. (applause)all these countries have shown european solidarity in the most concrete way possible. but the european union simply cannot continue to rely on unorganised ad hoc solutions when it comes to disembarkation. i was in italy, as you know, yesterday where i had constructive discussions with the leadership of the country, with prime minster conte and interior minister salvini. we are all committed to establishing a truly european solidarity mechanism because it is not only through a european approach that we can really manage this challenge. the situation today is already proof of that. the number of irregular arrivals today is nowhere near to that of three years ago and is 80% less than last year, and yet the political resistance today seems almost bigger. i ask everyone to open their eyes. we are not in a migration or refugee crisis anymore, although some try to present it as such. and while we are determined to continue reducing irregular migratory flows towards europe, we also have to acknowledge that some migrants and refugees will continue to come, even if those numbers are much smaller today. this is not something that we cannot handle, but it does become unmanageable if countries have to act alone. it is for exactly this reason that we need predictable and sustainable mechanisms in place. it is indeed critical for europe to uphold its moral and human duty while at the same time to have in place a solid, sustainable, future-proof and fair asylum system. this is the essence of our common european asylum reform. until we get there the commission is ready to work with member states to set up temporary arrangements. they will allow us to ensure solidarity with the most exposed eu countries while avoiding creating a pull factor. they will serve as a bridge until the new dublin regulation becomes applicable. i said this in december, and i will not stop making this point until we succeed: now is the time to finalise the reform of the european union’s asylum rules, now is the time for the governments to take up their responsibilities in the council and stop blaming the commission. (applause) i count on this house’s continued support and before i close my remarks, i would like to express my gratitude to parliament for its support during all these four years. thanks to your support and your commitment we are in a position to say that we deliver, but we can do more in the future. but unfortunately the clock is ticking. we are running out of time and we have only three months ahead. let’s do our duty. let’s do our job. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, although the mediterranean crisis has brought attention to immediate needs, it has also highlighted the structural limitations of the union's migration policy tools. in 2016, the commission launched seven proposals to reform the common european asylum system. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the instruments contained in these proposals represent, even on their own, a step forward in migration management. the reform of the 'eurodac' system, the regulation for the european asylum support office or the creation of a common resettlement framework can go ahead if there is political will and political agreement, but further work on the reform of the dublin system is necessary as, two years after the commission launched its proposal, divergent positions among member states persist and have prevented the council from adopting a mandate to open negotiations with parliament. the union has everything in its power to alleviate this crisis: the european agenda on migration 2015, the emergency trust fund for africa or the union's external investment plan. in addition to the seven legislative proposals, a budget increase is planned for the next financial framework which could reach eur 10 billion, not forgetting the signing of the global compact on migration with the united nations. but solidarity and better management are needed to prevent men, women and children fleeing terror, war or climate change from becoming homeless, dying at sea or falling into the hands of criminal networks. the adoption of the seven reports and a firm commitment to european solidarity in the face of selfish resistance and short-sighted policies would be a good solution.
madam president, first of all i would like to say to the romanian presidency that you have one last chance to try to shed some light on this serious problem we are facing in the european union. it will be difficult for you to do worse than the austrian presidency, so you have a chance. because it is very frustrating to have to discuss this issue again in this parliament. this is a parliament and it is there for that, but the citizens of europe must know that this parliament has done its duty; that we have a road map to solve the grave humanitarian crisis in the mediterranean and in africa; that we have a recipe for reforming the dublin system in an efficient and humane way; and that it is the governments, many governments of the member states, that are holding back that solution. it is very important that the citizens know this, because the citizens speak for the european union as a whole. and it's not the whole of the european union. this parliament has done its job, the commission is doing, to a large extent, its job, and it is the council that is blocking a solution. we talk about this mediterranean problem as if it were a humanitarian tragedy. that's what our headline says, but we treat it as if it were a mere technical problem. and we have 49 people stranded by winter storms because we're unable to accommodate them in one of our ports. and that's because there are governments in the european union that are blocking a common asylum and migration policy. this is what the citizens need to know. so that they can address their governments as well. because, i repeat, this parliament, which is also made up of 27 different nationalities and very different political groups, has managed to vote for an important agreement which would provide a solution to the current plight of refugees and migrants. we did our job. it is your turn, ladies and gentlemen of the council.
it's very simple, madam president. it is the least parliamentary courtesy. first, mr borghezio has spent half an hour in speaking time and then he stands up and shouts insults at other members. that is not acceptable in this house, and you should intervene.
madam president, on the subject of refugees and migration, europe is breaking international law in many respects, but there are two areas where it is unbearable. the first is to refuse to have a refugee policy. and i would like to join the voices calling on the presidency, in this case, to unblock the reform of the dublin system once and for all. we cannot go another minute without a welcoming policy worthy of the name. and the second is the criminalization of humanitarian aid. what has happened to the seawatch vessel leaving women, men and children for days in the middle of the sea without giving them safe harbour, which is an obligation under international law, is a real shame. and now, in addition, there is the question of the open arms vessel, which, incomprehensibly, is detained in the port of barcelona. it is not allowed to go to save lives with a mind-boggling argument: that if states do not comply with their obligations under international law, a ship like open arms should not. so, from here i want to ask, please, to unblock the reform of the dublin system and to stop criminalizing humanitarian aid and to let the ngos work if you don't.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the council, what you are doing cannot be called a policy of migration and asylum, but closing and externalizing borders, creating conditions for migrants to die, killing in deference. drowned in the mediterranean or abandoned in the desert... what difference does it make? they are migrants, but above all they are poor. last month a delegation from my group travelled to niger to see what you call 'the flagship example' in the european union's foreign and border policy: european funds are being used to train and equip nigerian border guards to fight terrorism and 'in the process' to detain migrants. the consequence is clear: what were once safe migration routes even for women with children, are now risky, kidnapping and rape routes, impossible to transit without paying the mafia. their policies are so favorable to the business of the mobs that they seem designed by the mobs themselves. "we will continue to migrate", we were told by refugees from the war in sudan, people who would now be entitled to asylum in europe but who have been detained and tortured in libya.
madam president, first they decided to close the borders so that no migrant would set foot in europe. then they decided the best deterrent strategy was to let them die in the mediterranean. they're forced to throw themselves into the sea in the hands of the mobs, because there's no other way to get there. there are no eu-chartered lifeboats and they don't even let ngos save lives. the spanish government prevents the open arms ship from going out to rescue people and thus becomes an accomplice to murder. and now the strategy is to not even let them leave africa. the externalization of borders is the new colonialism and it is materialized in agreements with african countries where they are financed with european funds centers where torture and slavery are carried out. the cooperation funds are devoted to border control in africa, and the european union makes deals with bloodthirsty dictators, as in sudan. because everything is valid in this electoral race where the space from the far right is being disputed to the social democracy.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, as we sadly attend this enlarged debate on asylum reform - always thwarted by the council - millions of europeans are asking themselves and asking the current members of the council what they think their predecessors were thinking when they signed the treaty of lisbon, which promised exactly what the european parliament had set as its position, expressing its indignation at its failure to do so in all the official languages of the union: solidarity, integrated management of the union's external borders and a system of shared responsibility in the management of asylum applications. this therefore directly calls for the council's responsibility, because we want an asylum policy which is humanitarian, effective and, above all, european. and the council's responsibilities are not settled by telephone calls, emergency remedies or patches, nor by the massive breach of european law, by stealing the sight of deaths in the mediterranean or by criminalizing non-governmental organizations, but by the council's compliance with its obligations and mandate under european law.
madam president, the anti-european far right is gaining ground throughout the european union. in the face of this worrying development, there are different strategies: one, that of andalusia, which consists in whitewashing the extreme right directly with the support, by the way, of members of the group of the european people's party and the alde group. another strategy is to isolate the far right, as has happened in sweden. and another, even more common, is to take on the populist discourse and the false and simplistic prescriptions of the far right, especially on migration and asylum. and this explains, at least in part, why we have been talking for years about reforming the dublin system and we have been talking for years about reforming the asylum and migration system, and the member states are unable to agree, demonstrating an alarming lack of solidarity, of willingness to share responsibilities and to give up sovereignty, which is what the european union is all about. gentlemen of the council, abandon populism and selfishness, and take up this reform.
in writing. we are saddened to see this enthusiastic debate on asylum reform always thwarted by the council. millions of europeans are asking and asking the current members of the council, expressing their indignation, about the unacceptable blockage of the negotiations in the council. in the face of this, we need solidarity, integrated management of the union's external borders and a system of shared responsibility for the management of asylum claims. this is a matter which therefore directly calls for the council's responsibility, because we want an asylum policy which is humanitarian, effective and, above all, european. we cannot tolerate flagrant breaches of european law, by stealing the sight of the citizens of the deaths in the mediterranean or by criminalizing non-governmental organizations. we demand that the council comply with its obligations and mandate under european law.
in writing. we are saddened to see this enthusiastic debate on asylum reform always thwarted by the council. millions of europeans are asking and asking the current members of the council, expressing their indignation, about the unacceptable blockage of the negotiations in the council. in the face of this, we need solidarity, integrated management of the union's external borders and a system of shared responsibility for the management of asylum claims. this is a matter which therefore directly calls for the council's responsibility, because we want an asylum policy which is humanitarian, effective and, above all, european. we cannot tolerate flagrant breaches of european law, by stealing the sight of the citizens of the deaths in the mediterranean or by criminalizing non-governmental organizations. we demand that the council comply with its obligations and mandate under european law.
in writing. we are saddened to see this enthusiastic debate on asylum reform always thwarted by the council. millions of europeans are asking and asking the current members of the council, expressing their indignation, about the unacceptable blockage of the negotiations in the council. in the face of this, we need solidarity, integrated management of the union's external borders and a system of shared responsibility for the management of asylum claims. this is a matter which therefore directly calls for the council's responsibility, because we want an asylum policy which is humanitarian, effective and, above all, european. we cannot tolerate flagrant breaches of european law, by stealing the sight of the citizens of the deaths in the mediterranean or by criminalizing non-governmental organizations. we demand that the council comply with its obligations and mandate under european law.
in writing. we are saddened to see this enlarged debate on asylum reform, which has always been thwarted by the council. millions of europeans are asking and asking the current members of the council, expressing their indignation, about the unacceptable blockage of the negotiations in the council. in the face of this, we need solidarity, integrated management of the union's external borders and a system of shared responsibility for the management of asylum claims. this is a matter which therefore directly calls for the council's responsibility, because we want an asylum policy which is humanitarian, effective and, above all, european. we cannot tolerate flagrant breaches of european law, by stealing the sight of the citizens of the deaths in the mediterranean or by criminalizing non-governmental organizations. we demand that the council comply with its obligations and mandate under european law.
in writing. we are saddened to see this enthusiastic debate on asylum reform always thwarted by the council. millions of europeans are asking and asking the current members of the council, expressing their indignation, about the unacceptable blockage of the negotiations in the council. in the face of this, we need solidarity, integrated management of the union's external borders and a system of shared responsibility for the management of asylum claims. this is a matter which therefore directly calls for the council's responsibility, because we want an asylum policy which is humanitarian, effective and, above all, european. we cannot tolerate flagrant breaches of european law, by stealing the sight of the citizens of the deaths in the mediterranean or by criminalizing non-governmental organizations. we demand that the council comply with its obligations and mandate under european law.
in writing. we are saddened to see this enthusiastic debate on asylum reform always thwarted by the council. millions of europeans are asking and asking the current members of the council, expressing their indignation, about the unacceptable blockage of the negotiations in the council. in the face of this, we need solidarity, integrated management of the union's external borders and a system of shared responsibility for the management of asylum claims. this is a matter which therefore directly calls for the council's responsibility, because we want an asylum policy which is humanitarian, effective and, above all, european. we cannot tolerate flagrant breaches of european law, by stealing the sight of the citizens of the deaths in the mediterranean or by criminalizing non-governmental organizations. we demand that the council comply with its obligations and mandate under european law.
in writing. we are saddened to see this enthusiastic debate on asylum reform always thwarted by the council. millions of europeans are asking and asking the current members of the council, expressing their indignation, about the unacceptable blockage of the negotiations in the council. in the face of this, we need solidarity, integrated management of the union's external borders and a system of shared responsibility for the management of asylum claims. this is a matter which therefore directly calls for the council's responsibility, because we want an asylum policy which is humanitarian, effective and, above all, european. we cannot tolerate flagrant breaches of european law, by stealing the sight of the citizens of the deaths in the mediterranean or by criminalizing non-governmental organizations. we demand that the council comply with its obligations and mandate under european law.
mr. president, allow me to abuse just one second of your generosity. we have had a debate to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the euro - a successful project - but i want to draw attention to the fact that the six people who have spoken about the success of this project, about its benefits, have been men. i hope it will not take another 20 years before women are properly integrated.
the rapporteur. mr president, welcome to the house, mr draghi. as always, it's a pleasure to have you in this house. and i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs and all the colleagues for their great support and cooperation in presenting what i consider to be a good report. the euro has turned 20 years old, and at the height of its popularity. three out of four citizens think it's good for our economy. what started as the common currency for 11 countries is now the common currency for 19.3 billion people. and, furthermore, the euro is coming up on its 20th anniversary after a great year. in 2017, the european economy grew at its strongest pace in the last ten years. but more importantly, all member states saw their economies expand. and we must recognize that this is due both to the monetary policy of the european central bank and to the structural reforms that have been carried out in many member states. the latest data published by eurostat in july last year show us that we are moving in the right direction. economic growth for 2018 and 2019 is consolidated above 2%. unemployment is basically at pre-crisis levels of around 7%, while the number of people in employment and the euro area labour market participation ratio are at their highest levels since the creation of monetary and economic union in 1999. but not everything is positive. i am alarmed by the lack of upward convergence and the tendency of some member states not to address their structural deficits. as regards inflation, the european central bank, whose statutory independence is fundamental, and i repeat, is fulfilling its mandate to keep inflation below, but around 2%. in the medium term, inflation is expected to remain at around 1,7% in 2018, 2019 and 2020, and this is undoubtedly thanks to the measures taken. we have also seen an improvement in credit to the private sector, which, by mid-2018, was increasing at a rate of 3% per annum. that said, we have to be cautious because of the uncertainty that is emerging around the european union with the resurgence of populisms, negotiations and possible consequences of brexit and protectionism, among many other risks. we must concentrate our efforts on the essential, which is to ensure that we remain on the path of economic growth and job creation, which is the real social policy. the key to this is to maintain a favourable environment for public and private investment, bringing it back to its pre-crisis levels. in this respect, further action by the ecb is needed to ensure that its monetary policy achieves the objective of restoring credit to the real economy, particularly to smes, which are the backbone of our economy, and that monetary accommodation measures benefit society as a whole. in the report we have prepared and which we shall be voting on tomorrow, we have covered all the aspects of the monetary policy of the european central bank, giving an assessment of the measures which had to be taken, but also welcoming the decision to reduce these measures gradually, as long as the economic situation allows it. we highlight the potential rise in interest rates, the reduction of the asset purchase programme, liquidity auctions, the launch of the corporate bond purchase programme and, of course, the public debt purchase programme in the euro area. but i would like to stress that the european central bank cannot solve the structural problems of the member states. it is up to the member states, in cooperation with the european institutions, to act at national level to establish a solid foundation on which to build the european union. the ecb's measures are transitional in nature and their main advantage is that they give member states time to consolidate their fiscal position and implement structural reforms which will create the conditions for continuing on the path of economic growth, something in which we are all involved.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, the european central bank, with its unconventional measures, has kept the economy of a very unreasonably designed eurozone afloat. there are some things about those measures that you have to look at, elements of democratization. also, as president draghi knows, we are concerned about the purchase of carbon-related assets, which do not contribute to the fight against climate change. but these measures have kept the european economy afloat. the question now is whether we will be able to make the reforms we know the eurozone needs to avoid future crises. and we are concerned that there is a strange coalition between those who do not want to reduce risks and those who do not want to mutualise them that prevents that reform from actually happening. we must move towards automatic stabilizers; we must move towards countercyclical mechanisms at the level of the european union, with a budget of this name. without this, the weaknesses of the euro in the future will remain very great, and it is therefore essential to take this leap which, without a doubt, the euro must take after its creation, twenty years ago.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, in my introductory remarks i recalled the constructive engagement that has developed between the european parliament and the european central bank over the past years, and the large convergence of views in many aspects of mr mato’s report shows that this continues to be the case. however, in my concluding remarks let me come back to a point which was also highlighted in the report: the need for financial integration, amongst others things, to improve the transmission of a monetary policy. and this brings me to the topic of the capital markets union and completion of the banking union. but there i would point out that out of the 30 legislative proposals which the commission has put out on the capital markets union, only three proposals have been adopted, and there is political agreement on a further two. so, therefore, we count on your continued support for the capital markets union project, which would lead to deeper and better-connected capital markets and thus also foster the international standing of the euro.
president of the european central bank. – mr president, first of all, i thank the rapporteur, honourable member, mr mato, for his report. i certainly thank you for all the compliments the ecb has received and i will respond to the criticisms. first of all, about the european deposit insurance scheme (edis). the ecb has always been a supporter of edis, of the insurance. i want just to make three points about that. first of all, whatever the road is to edis, the final goal of having a fully mutualised edis should always remain in sight. now the road to that goal is not going to be simple, we all know that. and so various steps and delays and compromises and negotiations are necessary. but the direction and the sense of final results should always be present. so what you decide about how to move ahead, will be really in your own judgment. the important thing is that, whatever you decide, we’ll never compromise over the final outcome. the third point i want to make about edis is that there is no clear progress on this road unless there is convincing risk reduction everywhere. by the way, big progress has been achieved on that front already but more needs to be done. the ecb has shown in various places on various occasions that risk sharing also itself contributes to risk reduction, so the two arms of this journey towards the final goal of a fully—neutralised insurance system should go hand in hand. several questions addressed the economic effects of the policy of the ecb. comparisons were made with non—euro parts of the world and with before the euro – how the world was beautiful, fantastic, before the euro. i’ve gone through these comparisons in a recent speech i gave. it was not fantastic, especially for the countries that complain most today about the euro; it was not fantastic at all before the euro. let me make a comparison with the united states, because someone raised that point. the employment rate in 1998 in the euro area at 19 was 59.8%, now it’s 67.3% – the highest ever in the euro area. in the united states, it was 73.9% in 1998, today it’s 70.6% so it went down, not up. the jobs created in the euro area over this period of time have been 19.8 million. and the jobs created in the united states were 17.2 million. of course we have to be careful about making these comparisons because the units have to be standardised and the same thing we get on the employment numbers, in millions. so when i’m asked about the side effects of our monetary policy in the euro area, the response is that the main side effect between 2013 – when the situation was at its worst – and today, has been the creation of 9.6 million jobs, which is more than ever. that’s the main side effect. other questions related to the presence of financial stability risks. well, it’s true that in certain localised areas over the euro area we observed that valuations are stretched in prime commercial real estate. also in some areas of some countries in the residential real estate, in some segments of the bond market. but are any of these risks prone to generate systemic financial stability risk? the answer that we give so far is no. but of course we monitor all this very carefully. and the answer to these local situations cannot be a change in monetary policy. it has to be the use of macroprudential tools by the national governments. we’ve said this and, in fact, national governments have indeed responded, with their national instruments together with the ecb. more generally, some questions addressed the role of the ecb and very rightly, as observed by the rapporteur, the ecb has its role but cannot fill all the roles that everybody else should fill. the ecb has a role which is limited to monetary policy, which is circumscribed by its mandate. it cannot do everybody else’s job. in this sense, as i have said on a variety of occasions including this morning, not all its benefits have accrued to all the members of the euro area. why is that? because of two main reasons. reforms are necessary in these countries whether they belong to the euro, or are outside the euro. you have got to make the reforms that are necessary. there is not a blueprint which is the same for all countries. it does change from country to country; each country has its own history. and so that’s the basic thing: no reforms, no growth. but then there are also problems, also incompleteness in the economic and monetary union. and the first incompleteness is to finish the things that had been decided already, namely the banking union. the second is to start to move fast on the capital markets union and the third is to build fiscal capacity. but if you do the first two things – and the european parliament has really carried out a very positive and constructive role at each and every point in time of this discussion – if these two things are done, we are way better, even if the next steps on the creation of the fiscal capacity may take longer for pretty obvious political difficulties. there was one question about what the ecb could do about certain specific loans that banks have lent to citizens. generally, the ecb cannot do anything about that, it’s the national competent authority. very often, these issues are a consumer protection issue, so it’s the national consumer protection authority that has to monitor the conditions of lending. but generally speaking – and this holds true also in other countries where the non—performing loans (npls) problem is really very dramatic because of its social consequences – in non—performing loans you always have two types of debtors: the ones who are normal or even strategic debtors and the ones who are part of a big social problem. for these problems, the response is not to change the payments culture but rather to help the poor people who cannot pay back. one should keep the two things separate. don’t change, don’t affect, don’t damage, don’t harm your banking system, your financial system because the result of this will only be that they will not be able to lend as much as they could to the private sector of your economy, but rather help the poor people who cannot pay. now, one question that has been asked from several sides is if we are heading towards the next recession – and i will say something about that in a moment – does the ecb have the tools to address this? the answer is yes. the ecb has the tools to address this but keep in mind that our present monetary policy stance is very accommodative already. we have negative interest rates and they are expected to be like this for an extended period of time. and, even though we have decided to stop the net asset purchases, we also decided that the current stock will stay what it is for a considerable period of time. what does it mean? it means that, as bonds come to maturity, we repurchase the bonds. what does it mean in terms of numbers? it means that we will continue buying, by and large – at least this year or the next year – 15 billion euros of bonds a month, which was, by and large, what we had been buying in the last 3 months of last year. there was perhaps more than one question about whether our monetary policy has helped equity. we went into some depth in trying to understand what the effects are of monetary policy on the distribution of income, distribution of wealth. it’s quite clear that each monetary policy decision has distributional effects. when we change interest rates we change distribution between creditors and debtors, or between young and old. but certainly the asset purchases, the quantitative easing (qe), have distributional impacts which are even more visible and direct because asset prices go up and the owners of assets are usually the wealthy ones. so the question we ask ourselves is, is our policy worsening the distribution? if you consider all the effects, the answer is no. why is that? it is true that it worsens the distribution in the short term. however, what is the factor that worsens the distribution more than any other factor? it’s the unemployment. where the monetary policy of the ecb has been a success was in fostering strong employment growth, as i presented at the beginning of this response. one question addressed the point of access by smes to credit. has our policy prevented, restrained, or shrunk access by smes to credit? the answer is absolutely no. both our corporate bond programme and our qe programme created space in the bank’s balance sheet for lending more to the smes. all data since 2013, since even when we started with the longer—term refinancing operations (ltros) – by the way the ltros are not unconditional lending – and the targeted longer—term refinancing operations (tltros), is lending to banks on condition they lend to firms, to the real economy. i don’t know where the fairy tale thing about eur 29 out of a hundred actually came from. in terms of another interesting irony of some of the questions, was that one hears that monetary financing of the deficit is now the solution to all problems. that’s one of the questions that was raised before. that is actually interesting. first of all, because when monetary financing was available, for the countries that actually vastly used monetary financing before the euro, the situation was very bad. they got very high inflation and they got unemployment higher than countries that did not use monetary financing. what is actually quite paradoxical is that you hear this solution of monetary financing from people who were against monetary financing as an utmost crime until yesterday. i think i have responded to most of the problems, and now one word about the outlook. if we take a snapshot of the situation as it is today, statically, we still see a situation where consumption is still expanding, relatively strong, investment still expanding, supported by our monetary policy, export growth is less, but still good. and the labour market keeps on being very strong. however, all this is happening at lower and lower growth rates. and we have been receiving weaker data than expected now for a longer time than we had expected a few months ago. in other words, at the beginning we had lower data and we said – and we continue to say, by the way – that some of this weaker momentum was due to temporary factors, and specific to sectors and certain countries. for example, what happened to the car industry; this is one example which is a temporary drop. but then we also said that there are also some more permanent causes of this slowing—down. and the causes of this slowing—down are going to stay. one of which is simply that 2017 was a pretty exceptional year when compared with historical averages. and so we return to a lower growth path. but then the question that we should ask is, first of all, is this what is called a sag or is it heading towards a recession? and the answer we give is no, it’s a slowdown, which is not heading towards a recession, but it could be longer than was expected before. and on what does the length of this slowdown depend? to answer this question we have to go back and ask ourselves what are the factors that originally caused this weakening in growth. and the factors deal primarily with some slowdown in china, of course, but with what we call geopolitical uncertainties. and here, the natural question to ask is how long will these geopolitical uncertainties last. these geopolitical uncertainties put into question the pillars upon which the order, that was built after the second world war, was constructed. and they put into question the european union. they have to do with brexit. they have to do with trade tensions with china. they have to do with the denial of the multilateral system. and we notice, however, that some of these things get better and some others get worse. the result of this, however, is that, at least for some time to come, there’s going to be a continuing uncertainty that changes nature, and this has a cost. and the cost is lower confidence – lower business confidence and lower consumer confidence. that’s why we are now assessing the situation, as i said. my impression is, mr president, that i have responded to all questions. if i missed someone i apologise.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to reiterate to you, mr draghi, that i am glad you are here, even if today has resulted in you becoming almost more of an audience than an analysis of the 2017 annual report. but it sounds good. and i would like to thank you, of course, for your recognition of the work that this parliament is doing. may he follow his example! i would also like to thank vice-president dombrovskis for his positive analysis of the report. and of course, thanks to the colleagues who have intervened. even those whose positions i do not share. i agree with mr draghi that we must not be complacent and that we must strengthen our capacity to adapt and equip ourselves with the instruments to face new crises. we already have crisis experience. we don't make the same mistakes. it is true that we have a stronger monetary union, but there are still some unresolved issues. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i also agree that risk reduction and risk sharing must go hand in hand. and that's the end of it. i want to remind you of the importance of not settling and moving forward. i would therefore like to highlight two points which have been taken up in the report with the almost unanimous support of this parliament: the importance of continuing to move towards greater financial integration through the capital markets union, which will help the smooth transmission of monetary policy and ensure greater stability in the euro area; the need to meet the sustainability objectives in the context of monetary policies - the ecb is under the paris agreement and, like all the european institutions, has to support the achievement of the objectives set; and finally, i would like to acknowledge something which has also been highlighted by mr draghi: the work done by the ecb on transparency to improve the communication of its policies, especially given that the ecb has absolute independence in the conduct of its monetary policy, and as it is enshrined in the treaties. the triangle of accountability, greater transparency and independence is key.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, thank you very much, mr vice-president of the commission, for being here. first of all, i must thank mr nils torvalds, as rapporteur for this report, for his spirit of collaboration and the other rapporteurs for the effort we have made to reach this agreement, this text of agreement which we are voting on tomorrow. in any case, i would like to point out that these reports in which we assess the functioning of the banking union are timely, they are necessary, but it is key to be able to complete the institutional framework of the banking union at once. this parliament has made a great effort in this legislature and especially in recent months to deal with the risk reduction packages - the banking package, the regulations to regulate bad loans - but we need an additional effort in these last months to be able to finish designing a deposit insurance for the whole of the banking union, to secure a product - that public debt securitisation - that is a safe public bond and also a safeguard mechanism, a backstop, for the single resolution fund. we have taken steps, as i said, to reduce the risks, but we still have to take steps to share them. and that is why i dare to ask this parliament to be able to take advantage of these four months, to be able to negotiate as much as we can to finish having that deposit insurance, those other instruments so necessary for the banking union to work and not have to go through crises like the one we have been through in the last decade.
mr president, it is now 11 years since the financial crisis began, and the great banking reform that was announced has failed. europe is no longer protected against a future financial crisis. the banking union is pushing for an ever-increasing concentration of the sector, where small and medium-sized banks are being devoured by the big ones. this situation of progressive oligopoly is difficult because it does not guarantee that no bank will be saved with public money. the european central bank is acting like the most ruthless of private banks, pressuring the banks to get rid of their low-quality assets, leaving their customers in the hands of vulture funds. consumer protection and access to housing are the last concerns of the supervisory body. gentlemen, we need a stable financial system under democratic and popular control. unfortunately, the banking union is clearly taking us in the opposite direction. we're not better prepared. we keep defending the bank against the people.
i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs, mr gualtieri and mr fernandes, on the great work they have done on this report. it is true that we started on a good basis with the commission's proposal, but i believe that in the parliamentary procedure, thanks to the rapporteurs and the negotiators from other political groups, we have improved that proposal. from the beginning of the economic crisis, it was a priority for the socialists to establish an investment plan that would allow the economies to be revived, but that would revive them on the right track; and this is for sustainable growth. we have already worked on the first strategic investment plan, the juncker plan, and on its extension during this mandate. and as always, everything is improvable, but the results i think can be described as satisfactory. this new investment plan builds not only on these good results and on the experience of the previous plan but also brings together under one umbrella financial instruments that were scattered by different programmes. we have also been demanding time for this, and what it will do is to have a much more flexible, more effective and simpler instrument, and therefore with a better impact. the objective of this programme, as already mentioned, is to mobilise almost eur 700 billion from the european budget for investments that will enable the european union to grow in a smart way, that is, by investing in knowledge, in sustainable infrastructure or by facilitating access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises. this new plan will also enable us to build social infrastructure and give a fundamental boost in the fight against climate change. i think it is also important to stress the role of the promotion banks that exist at national or regional level, because it will create very positive synergies and bring investments closer to the specific needs of the territories. so i hope that the negotiations with the council will start quickly, that we will be able to reach a good agreement in line with what this parliament is going to vote on tomorrow, that is to say, in line with the objectives, but also - and this is fundamental - in line with the budgetary volume we are going to vote on.
madam president, i would like to underline three specific aspects relating to investeu. firstly, there is a clear need to further mobilise public and private investments in the european union, but this investment should follow a rationale, serve a clear purpose and aim at achieving common goals. in other words, the investeu programme must be a useful tool to transform our economies into carbon-neutral inclusive economies. they must foster energy transition and take into account social and environmental concerns. we definitely have to be determined to accomplish the paris agreement and the sdgs. that is why we strive for bigger climate spending targets when it comes to supporting strategic investments and exclude projects that could be environmentally harmful. secondly, we strongly oppose the funding of defence projects with investeu. the militarisation of the eu budget, be it through investments or through research support, is not the proper way to solve the security challenges that we are facing. investeu funds should be invested in many other areas with a much more evident need of investment, not least in the social economy. thirdly and finally, the stronger participation not only of national, but also of regional promotional banks, is a key factor in the better allocation of projects due to their knowledge of the local markets and of the needs of the economic and social agents.
madam president, i welcome the investeu programme, which ultimately seeks to make financing for investment projects in europe simpler, more efficient and more flexible. we are talking about investments of €650 billion: good news for everyone, a new opportunity to stimulate job creation, investment and innovation. but this opportunity must also reach the outermost regions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the canary islands want to be an important part of this programme, but to do so we must take account of their uniqueness and special characteristics. solidarity is a fundamental value of the european union. in this case, moreover, any exception in favour of the outermost regions has full legal support in article 349 of the treaty.
madam president, commissioner, the trade agreement signed in 2013 by the european union with colombia and peru has been provisionally applied for the past five years and, after analysing its implementation and relations between the three parties, we can say that it has been a win-win agreement. this agreement goes beyond strictly commercial aspects, since it involves a relationship based on rules, common values and international standards which has had a very positive impact on the socioeconomic development of the parties. it is also a tool to consolidate our strategic partnership with latin america, which is of vital importance to the european union. the trade agreement has contributed to economic stability, modernization and diversification of exports in colombia and peru. it is important for these countries to have a reference market outside latin america which will enable them to diversify their exports. the agreement has helped colombia and peru to modernise and diversify their exports and has benefited their small and medium-sized enterprises. the agreement has also improved access to these markets for european companies, not only by eliminating tariffs but also by reducing bilateral trade barriers. however, i believe that effective action must be taken by the commission and the member states to enable our smes to exploit the full potential of trade agreements such as this. we should welcome the progress made in finding solutions to the existing trade barriers, especially in the areas of sanitation and phytosanitary matters, but there is still work to be done by colombia and peru to resolve issues such as the certification of certain meat and dairy products, the protection of geographical indications of the union or the taxation applied to the importation of spirits. the agreement also provided for cooperation mechanisms between the commission and the governments of colombia and peru, particularly on trade and sustainable development issues. the aim must be to work to ensure that international labour and environmental law is properly applied. the agreement, which is accompanied by a roadmap, has also served as a follow-up on social and environmental issues. we can say that positive progress has been made by colombia and peru, but there is still a long way to go and we must insist on compliance with the provisions reflected in guaranteeing freedom of association, the right to collective bargaining, labour inspections, informal work, child labour or environmental issues. i would like to congratulate the government of colombia on the agreement for a bilateral and definitive ceasefire and cessation of hostilities with the farc guerrillas, and also on its accession to the oecd on 30 may, which recognises the important reforms undertaken in the country. i also encourage peru to advance its reforms under the oecd country programme. finally, i would like to remind you that this agreement should also have been signed with all the andean countries, including bolivia and ecuador, which for political reasons did not want to negotiate it. i welcome the fact that ecuador applied to join in 2015 as it realised the benefits it represented for its economy and that this parliament ratified its accession in december 2017. we must encourage these friendly countries to continue working in the right direction. there is still room for improvement, but they must be congratulated on the progress made and assured of the support of the european union.
member of the commission. – madam president, allow me to start by wishing you all a happy new year and i am looking forward to close collaboration in the remaining months in this plenary, and between, of course. i would also like to thank very much the european parliament, the committee on international trade (inta), and the two rapporteurs, mr böge and mr santiago fisas ayxelà, for the reports that you have just accounted for on the implementation of the trade pillar of the association agreement with central america and the trade agreement between the eu and peru and colombia. both of these reports deliver a very valuable contribution to assess the results of these agreements on the ground and the commission is also launching this year a comprehensive evaluation study of both these agreements. as you rightly point out in these reports, implementation has gone well and they have had a positive impact on bilateral trade despite the negative impact of an unfavourable international economic context. at the same time, we need of course to pay close attention to the implementation of the trade and sustainable development provisions in certain central american countries, particularly relating to labour provisions. there has been some progress, as you said; for example, with the recent establishment of the tripartite labour council in guatemala. the commission has also provided funding for events on corporate social responsibility, for strengthening the domestic advisory groups and directly to the ilo regional office. colombia and peru have also made some progress concerning effective implementation on sustainable development provisions. contact with peru has been particularly intense. i sent a letter to peru’s trade minister last july stating our concerns about the insufficient implementation of commitments to protect fundamental labour rights, about peru’s relaxation of environmental standards, to promote trade and investment, and about the non-sufficient consultation of civil society. peru engaged very constructively in these discussions and we have achieved positive results. the report on the andean agreement correctly highlights the importance of consultations with civil society. here as well there has been progress. last year columbia established a dedicated domestic advisory group and peru has committed to dedicated discussions on labour and environmental issues in some of the existing civil society consultation mechanisms that the government has chosen to rely upon. we need to continue to pay close attention in this area and we will engage with the countries covered by the agreements in line with the 15-point action plan on trade and sustainable development presented last february. some issues are only partially covered in these agreements, or not at all – gender, anti-corruption provisions or a complete chapter on investment. this is of course mainly due to the age of the agreements – the negotiations were concluded in 2010 – so we need to see with our partners how we can move on with these challenges in the future. finally, let me underline that we fully share your view that in light of the challenging political situation in central america and the andean region, it is urgent – and also for our credibility as you so rightly said, mr böge – for both agreements to enter fully into force. so we strongly support the call that parliament has made for the member states that have not yet ratified the agreements to do so as soon as possible. i am very much looking forward to this debate.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their work. i have the honour of being the rapporteur for the committee on foreign affairs when these two agreements were adopted and i therefore welcome the fact that they have been useful instruments for our citizens and businesses in the european union, central america and the andean community and have contributed to a fairer, more inclusive and more rules-based international trading order, especially at this time of protectionist temptations. as mr fisas has said, we must optimise the benefits of these agreements and, as mr böge has said, we must improve our procedures. it is inconceivable, madam commissioner, that there are still three member states which have not ratified these agreements. in the case of colombia, the achievements have been somewhat overshadowed by the terrible situation in venezuela, and i think we should welcome the commitment and determination of our president in expressing his solidarity with the democrats who are fighting in venezuela. and also, in the case of central america, a delegation from this parliament will visit nicaragua to verify whether the terrible situation that this country is experiencing is compatible with an essential element of these agreements, which is the democratic clause.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, madam commissioner, i too would like to begin by congratulating the two rapporteurs and thanking them for their constructive attitude which has enabled us to reach broad consensus. i sincerely believe that as important as signing good agreements is assessing their implementation and their impact. the implementation of the european union's trade agreements with colombia, peru and central america have points in common which i would like to highlight. first, its strategic value: both agreements seal alliances in defence of global economic governance, multilateralism and regional integration as fundamental pillars of sustainable development. the agreement with central america is the first bi-regional agreement signed by the european union; and the agreement with peru and colombia, which fortunately was signed by ecuador, remains open to the andean pact bloc. from an economic point of view, all parties have seized new opportunities and have encouraged the diversification of their economies, which are too dependent on their raw materials and agricultural production. as regards the socialist demands in defence of the objectives of sustainable development, i would like to stress that both agreements have sealed long-term commitments and have created dialogue tables to ensure trade that is more respectful of human, social, labour and environmental rights. in peru, civil society is making use of formal channels of participation and has called for an investigation that would have been unthinkable without this agreement. i believe that independent advisory groups should be set up in all countries without further delay to ensure the involvement of civil society in the monitoring of the agreements. because when we see the waves of people migrating from central america in search of a better life and coming up against a wall, or when we denounce the violation of human rights in nicaragua, or when we firmly defend the peace agreement reached with colombia, we have to be very aware of the tools that trade agreements provide and seek their full effectiveness. i therefore call on the s&d group to make every effort to fully implement these agreements and to review them, to make them more effective and inclusive, including a chapter for smes; another on combating corruption, fraud and tax evasion; another on trade and gender; and also the possibility of applying a sanctions-based mechanism as a last resort if the sustainable development clauses are not respected. and - of course! - the commitment to implement the paris agreement. i sincerely believe that the european union and latin america share principles and values, and we have much to contribute to fairer and more inclusive trade. let's make this happen, ladies and gentlemen.
madam president, while we are discussing how to use tariff preferences, the human rights situation in central america is appalling. the cases of nicaragua, guatemala and honduras are particularly serious. in particular, the expulsion of guatemala from the international commission against impunity is a severe blow to justice. and the sad thing is, it will be good news for the organizations that profit from corruption and impunity. we should be ashamed that some of these organisations are named after european companies or their subsidiaries. it is unacceptable that of the three pillars of the agreement only trade is operational, and it is symptomatic of the priorities of this neoliberal and extractivist model of the european union. we need trade that puts people and the planet at the centre, but really and once, through binding human rights and environmental clauses. we welcome the fact that this report is clear on this matter, but we regret that the text ignores the terrible situation in central america today with regard to human rights, indigenous rights and land rights.
madam president, these agreements are commendable in that they strengthen the process of regional integration among the central american countries, ensure fairer and more inclusive trade and foster sustainable economic growth in the region. while it is true - as santiago fisas said - that it has been beneficial for all parties, it is also true that, as the agricultural sector pays the bills of these agreements, the outermost regions' emblematic products - such as bananas, tomatoes and sugar - have been harmed. in the case of bananas, although safeguard clauses and a stabilisation mechanism were set up in return - which, incidentally, expires this year and should be extended - the reality is that it has never been activated until now, even though the thresholds have been exceeded by far. one example: in september 2018, nicaragua and guatemala exceeded their thresholds 349% and 102%, respectively and peru has repeatedly exceeded it in the last four years without any action. and i am concerned because this has negative consequences for the banana producers in the community. we are talking about implementation; i hope that this will be accompanied by the appropriate measures.
madam president, latin america is a key partner for the european union. it is a geopolitical partner, as well as a commercial one. these agreements facilitate that relationship. i thank the rapporteurs who have had the intelligence to propose a reflection on them. my contribution is that the agreement with colombia must be closely linked to the peace agreement. europe must put pressure on the colombian government to deal with a wave of violence, again, against human rights defenders, which is not compatible with an economic and political agreement such as the one we have with colombia. that is why europe must establish a link between the two agreements, and i believe that in central america - as has been said - this is particularly the case with the agreements with nicaragua, honduras and guatemala, three very poor countries with many internal problems. we have to help them. i think that rather than punish, we should help. these countries need the agreements to be an instrument for them to become fully democratic countries.
madam president, i always stress the importance of relations between the european union and latin america. in today's world, the european countries and the latin american countries are natural allies and we need to strengthen our ties. in the present context, where protectionist forces are growing, we must continue to defend the advantage of balanced and mutually beneficial trade agreements. the agreements with the countries of latin america contribute to their economic growth, to the modernization of their economies and also to the diversification of their exports. as far as the european countries are concerned, we need to export. our population is not growing; neither is domestic consumption, as a consequence of the crisis, nor is public spending increasing because of the need for fiscal consolidation. the external markets are therefore essential for european countries and for job creation. finally, i would like to ask once again for the conclusion of the negotiations on the mercosur trade agreement. commissioner malmström, who is playing such a good role in this portfolio, is fully aware that we are facing a historic opportunity and we must not miss it.
madam president, commissioner malmström, as a european socialist i am a strong supporter of an association agreement with central and latin america which contains clauses on sustainable development, the fight against corruption and gender equality. as a spanish socialist, i wholeheartedly support making central and latin america a strategic partner of the european union. but as a socialist living in an outermost region, the canary islands, i am concerned about the impact on particularly sensitive products and sectors. because i link this agreement to the regulation on safeguard clauses in trade relations, which provides for compensation mechanisms exactly when that impact is negative for sensitive products from the outermost regions. i believe that nothing is more damaging to the construction of europe than the divorce between what the european union promises and what the european union actually does. if it promises compensation to particularly sensitive sectors which are harmed by trade agreements, the european union has an obligation to compensate.
madam president, in a report of this kind, in a debate which touches on these parts of the world, what would have been serious in this parliament is to have a debate on each of the regions, on each of the territorial areas under discussion and not a general debate which is so limited in terms of what this part of the world deserves, which is also so important for us and for its inhabitants. our group does not take very seriously the fact that the european commission monitors trade agreements when they are concluded, but we demand that this be done during their implementation. i am referring specifically to the report on peru and colombia voted in this parliament in 2013, which aroused strong opposition from european society, but also strong opposition from a large part of civil society in those countries. i am also referring to the situation in panama, which is frankly omitted in the report on central america because a central issue has been forgotten, namely the issue of tax havens and the impact of the panama papers. that is why we are calling for a review of the fight against corruption, money laundering and tax evasion. we love to drink bananas from honduras; we love to drink coffee from colombia, but we turn a deaf ear to the money laundering in panama.
member of the commission. – mr president, we are not discussing the mercosur agreement today. there is no agreement yet, but i will be happy to come back to the plenary to discuss this when there is one – very soon, i hope. but what we are discussing are these two agreements and it’s of course up to the parliament how you want to organise the debates. with a regional agreement it can be difficult to discuss every country per se, but the commission has just launched preparations to do full evaluations of both these agreements and we will be looking into every country. we can say that on trade these agreements have delivered, a lot, but there is of course still much to do. as has been said by the two rapporteurs, we need to focus on implementation. there is work to do on smes, as you said. we have been focusing a lot to give special attention to the small and medium—sized companies in the countries we discuss through dedicated information on our website. we have the market access database with the latest information on tariffs, rules of origin, statistics and different requirements and we are trying to put our companies together with the latin american companies. these agreements are good in a way, but they are a little old. that is true. they were concluded in 2010, almost 10 years ago. today, we would have asked to put other things and additional things in them and we will reflect with our partners on how to do that at a future stage. there are concerns about human rights in many of these countries. i fully agree that the situation in nicaragua, for instance, is of great concern. we have raised it and, apart from these agreements, there are different tools where we can address it and i know that the foreign affairs ministers will discuss nicaragua in particular at their next meeting – i think next week – and possibly there will be a statement at that point as well. we are raising this in the human rights dialogue on a regular basis and we are engaging with the countries, but we should also not deny that there has been some progress. i have been engaging particularly with peru on the issue that ms hautala – who is no longer here – raised, on the labour issues, and they have started to engage with civil society, starting a dialogue on these issues, which is good. there are other examples as well. on the banana issues: as you know the conditions to suspend temporarily the preferences for bananas are defined in the agreement. that is not an automatic decision. it depends on the impact of the imports on the stability of the eu market and each time that those thresholds have been exceeded for central america, including last year, from the commission side we have made an in-depth analysis and we have concluded that the excessive imports did not cause any destabilisation of the eu markets and had very little impact on the prices either. but we will continue to monitor this. on the issue of frozen fries, as the belgian gentleman mentioned, we are of course very much aware of this. we have raised it with the colombian authorities several times and i do share concerns here. there also seems to be a problem of how they had been calculating it so we will be engaging with them in bogota next week or at end of this month, with the trade team of the colombian authorities to look at this in detail. we will keep you informed about the evaluation of these issues. so, as i said, we will launch a comprehensive evaluation of both these agreements. we will be happy to share those results with parliament and to come back and discuss these issues at a later stage.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank commissioner malmström and all my colleagues for their interesting contributions to the debate this afternoon. latin america is a friendly region, with which we have very strong historical ties. the trade agreements we have just discussed only reinforce this relationship and give a glimpse of its strategic and geopolitical importance for the european union. dear and beloved helmut, i know there are many things to improve, but we must see where they came from and where they are now. suspending the treaties would only make the situation worse, as mr jauregui has very well said. and it is true, dear gabriel, dear juan fernando, that we must be very vigilant on the subject of bananas. we have also been told what measures the commission is taking, as commissioner malmström has just said. as peru and colombia, and ecuador as a recent addition, are strategic regions for the european union, it is essential to continue to push the agreement forward so that it can reach its full potential. and we must remember that the agreement remains open to new accessions, since it contains an accession clause which leaves the door open to participation by other member countries of the andean community of nations. and i would not like to end my speech without thanking all my colleagues on the committee on international trade, and in particular the alternative rapporteurs - a special mention to inmaculada rodríguez piñero who, with her contributions and help, has made it possible to achieve a balanced and positive report which i hope will be adopted in the house tomorrow with broad support.
mr president, commissioner, the european globalisation adjustment fund has proved its effectiveness since its inception in supporting workers made redundant as a result of globalisation. we were able to adapt it to include the economic crisis, as a consequence of their intervention, and now we have done it again to include automation and digitization. technological developments bring about continuous changes in production processes, and it is our duty to keep up to date so that the policies we propose are in line with reality. the union must continue to invest in people and promote the improvement of their skills, particularly if we are talking about a large number of workers being made redundant. i therefore consider it important that this fund should remain reactive and i also support, like my colleagues, the reduction of the threshold for redundancies in order to make the fund operational. in this way it is better adapted to the reality of european industrial networks, where mass redundancies are becoming less frequent, and it allows entry into small-scale labour markets.
mr president, the shock to local economies caused by the layoffs is very great. the effects of economic globalisation are having an impact on our territories. the shipyard workers in my town of vigo or in ferrol, in galicia, know this well. the textile workers of ordes in cornwall know this well, and, even if they never know the background of globalisation, the workers of alcoa, an energy-intensive company in cornwall, in avilés. the commissioner is aware of this problem and we will be submitting a proposal in the future. the fund has not always been applied transparently and we therefore ask the commission to be vigilant in the application of the fund, in transparency, in participation in trade union information. i will send you examples of the opposite, as happened in my country, galicia, with the galician government. i would also draw attention to a fundamental problem, commissioner: many companies have used the fund to avoid complying with the labour regulations to which they were obliged under the legislation of the member state.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the text presented by the commission has also been of great help, since the merger of several funds within the european social fund, while maintaining its specific objectives, will help to reduce administrative barriers and simplify procedures. linking to the european semester will give member states flexibility to focus on those aspects they consider most necessary. we must remember that our citizens are the greatest asset of the union and must therefore be at the centre of our policies. it is true that economic recovery is a fact, but much remains to be done. we need to increase employment levels, particularly among young people, modernise education and training systems to meet the needs of the labour market, strengthen lifelong learning, especially among older workers, and fight poverty and social exclusion. but i would like to emphasize the following points in the report. the percentage of esf+ funding allocated to social inclusion measures is increased to 27%, creating specific target groups such as the roma community. an additional 3% will be allocated to support the most deprived groups through basic material and food assistance and through accompanying measures aimed at improving their integration and participation in society. young people are also the future of the union and their inclusion in society and the labour market is therefore a priority for us. we propose that all member states should allocate at least 3% of their resources to measures to support children and that the member states most affected, that is to say those with a rate above the european average, or above 15%, should allocate at least 15%. child poverty is another key point in the report. 26.4% of children in the union are at risk of social exclusion. these are unacceptable rates. child poverty hinders the personal development of children and hinders their full inclusion in society. if we want to ensure that all european citizens enjoy equal opportunities we have to work from childhood. that is why we are calling for the creation of a child guarantee fund of 5.9 billion euros. equality between men and women is another important point in the report. article 6 contains the provisions necessary to ensure that they are respected, while proposing specific actions to increase the participation of women in society. the full integration of disabled people is another key point. in addition to the continuous references to the un convention or to respect for the principle of non-discrimination, the fund has as its own specific objective the increase of accessibility to improve their inclusion in employment, education and training. and to conclude this first speech, i would like to talk about the social economy enterprise. for the first time, a shared and common concept of social economy is introduced in the regulation which will ensure greater legal certainty and will serve other companies, in particular in countries such as spain, italy and portugal, where the esf is key, in their work with the most vulnerable people.
mr president, i would like to begin by giving a positive assessment of the existence of this fund and its purpose as a motor for financing social and employment policies. however, this is a good instrument and needs to be improved in at least the following respects. the first and most important is to give it a greater economic dimension. the cost of solving the social and labour problems is much higher than before, after having plunged european workers into precariousness. as regards the second, it is essential to implement the priority projects through social dialogue - equal opportunities, training, youth employment and much more - and to this end it is good to create and use synergies with other funds - yes, with the exception of investeu. the management of the system also needs to be streamlined and simplified. however, it will not be enough to solve the structural problems of the european union unless we end, among other things, the conditions of the european semester.
member of the commission. – mr president, this debate has further demonstrated the importance of the esf+ and parliament’s report will be a solid foundation for the interinstitutional negotiations. as always, the commission is open to discussion in the trilogues and will play its role as an honest broker. i very much hope, and i am confident, that the council under the romanian presidency will, for its part, advance further on the esf+ regulation with a view to its adoption in 2019, well in time for the next programming round. eu funding for investing in people is the tangible illustration of our european values, promoting equality, social fairness and social progress through concrete actions to empower and protect our citizens – the unemployed and the employed, men and women, eu natives or citizens born outside the european union – and this from early childhood on. the esf+ is a tool with direct visibility to citizens. it is an instrument to help achieve social cohesion and upward social convergence. i am convinced that, thanks to the strong commitment on the part of the european co-legislators, and parliament in particular, the european union will be better placed to deliver on our citizens’ legitimate expectations in the next multiannual financial framework. thank you, to those concerned, for your hard work. thank you for the fact that you advanced as quickly as you did, and congratulations to all those who participated in this, and specifically to the rapporteur.
the rapporteur. mr president, once again i would like to express my gratitude for the good synchronisation between colleagues and teams in the negotiation of this report and, of course, for the commission's proposal. in the short time available, i believe we have managed to agree on a solid and balanced text, which was possible because we all had a common objective, the social improvement of europe, which meant that we avoided maximalist positions in order to achieve the widest possible consensus. i am aware that we have all had to make concessions on some points, but i think that the agreement reached in the employment committee will be useful to european citizens, regardless of where they live. in order to enhance economic, social and territorial cohesion, the fund will be in line with the principles of the european pillar of social rights and with article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and will therefore take into account the different territorial realities within and between member states, such as depopulation. in this way, we will send two clear messages. the first, to citizenship. the european citizens are the european union's main concern and we will therefore work to improve their living conditions. and the second message is addressed to the council. we in the european parliament have done our job. the work has borne fruit and, if the report is approved - as i hope - we are ready to start negotiations. as rapporteur, although i know that it is difficult, i hope that the romanian presidency will be able to approve its mandate in time to start the negotiations and i hope, like most of my colleagues, that we will be able to finish the report in this legislature.
mr president, although in these times of wall-building rhetoric and blatant selfishness, logic prevails when the well-being of our citizens is at stake. cooperation is the way to progress, as the experience of spain and portugal shows. since 1989, cooperation between the administrations of both countries has improved the quality of life in regions such as galicia, alentejo, algarve and castilla y león. today this cooperation is articulated through the interreg programme, which is de facto succeeding in erasing the border line to promote growth that benefits both spaniards and portuguese. this illustrates the importance of effective management across common borders, especially when regional funds could be cut in the next multiannual financial framework. but one thing is clear: cohesion policy must be protected, maintained and promoted, because it improves people's lives with projects like interreg. in a context where populism is on the rise, it is urgent to increase the funding that helps build hospitals, schools and roads. the union's ultimate objective is to remove barriers to living together. let us therefore commit ourselves to coexistence and efficient management, to public services that are up to the standards of our citizens and to a bigger and better europe. and let's start with interreg.
madam president, after yesterday’s vote in westminster only one thing is clear: the commons rejected the agreement that their government signed but they don’t know what they want. we had majorities for two negative votes but not a majority for a positive one. after months of illusions, false hopes and lies, it’s time for the british parliament to accept the truth. brexit is not a european problem. it is a british one. so please find a solution. everybody wants to have the best possible relationship with the united kingdom, but not at any price. we are friends and allies but what britain cannot expect from us is to re-try our principles. there is one simple reason for that: being a member of the european union is not an economic decision, but a life choice. we are a community of shared values based on the rule of law and treaties. it is not a transactional relationship. the british government created this problem and the british government must solve it. we at the european parliament are ready to sign the agreement when it comes to us, but we are also ready to move on without it. until yesterday, we thought brexit was the reaction to a european crisis. today we know it was the reaction to a national british crisis. yesterday it became clear: there is no majority for a brexit with a deal, and there is no majority for a brexit with no deal. so the most sensible thing to do would be to keep calm and carry on. to mr farage, wherever he is, i would say, with all due respect, please be very careful in using the word ‘war’, because there was indeed a war and, thank god, the british won it. everybody learned their lesson, but perhaps not mr farage. (applause) (the speaker declined to take a blue-card question from bill etheridge)
madam president, a negative majority, which is the sum of many noes, has plunged the united kingdom into a long tunnel of confusion, uncertainty and tension from which british society is more divided than ever about its own political, social, territorial and generational plurality. and it is not for this european parliament to debate endlessly on the applicable article so that british society can find its way out of the maze which has caused an unfortunate use of the referendum, which another referendum with an informed debate could amend. it is our duty to express our support and appreciation to the millions of britons who have courageously resisted the lies and the nationalist and populist demagogy. and of course, mr barnier, we must support the european union's negotiating unit with a reassuring message, a message of assurance and understanding for all citizens, the people who fear the impact of insecurity and uncertainty on their lives the most.
i would like to thank mr sánchez for his presence in this house and for his contributions to the european debate. a debate more necessary than ever before in the face of the push of the populist forces of the extreme right, which are striking europe, including spain. however, beyond agreeing or not with your diagnosis of the dangers and threats facing the european union, i have to disagree with the solutions that you and other european leaders have brought to this parliament. with reference to the extreme right, these fascist tendencies, we must confront and fight them from the root. the origin and breeding ground for the emergence of these phenomena lies in the dereliction of many governments' duties towards the working class. i need not remind you that the neoliberal policies promoted from brussels have only reduced the already depleted welfare state. the crisis has exacerbated existing problems, and crisis management is responsible for unsustainable inequality. their policies, in the service of the privileged, have caused enormous social pain and a crisis of legitimacy. the spanish governments, regardless of their colour, have been participants and collaborators in the bitter times we are living. the express constitutional reform involved cuts in health, education, pensions, dependency and two labour reforms that were extremely harmful to workers. this is something that can't happen again. they have created a perfect storm for the far right to take advantage of the helplessness and desperation of the social majority and offer false enemies and false solutions. mr sánchez, the european union today has more than 140 million poor and precarious workers, which is also a consequence of the territorial asymmetry of the production model that is being imposed on the south of europe. we are condemned to subsidiary models based on cheap labour and little added value. today we have thousands of people whose jobs are hanging by a thread because in their companies, they are either not paid, or they are going to be fired with an employment regulation file. alcoa is there: they've reached a preliminary agreement with the unions. i hope you'll sign it. vodafone, deliveroo, globo, amazon. i'm not sure what you're looking for here. the list is too long to read through. this is the result of leaving democracy in the hands of the interests of the multinationals, when the priority is the real problems of the citizens, wherever they live and wherever they are from. that is why we must promote public policies that promote quality employment and prevent labour exploitation in any of the member states. because, until now, the free movement of capital has gone hand in hand with the free movement of poverty and inequality. do not continue to make economic policies with the right, do not continue to forge sterile alliances, address the problems affecting the working class now. we don't need good intentions. we need commitments. for example, in order to make social policy the main focus of european policies, will you force the ratification of the european social charter? that's a good social contract. what are you prepared to do to ensure that the european union's foreign policy is a factor of credibility and not of contradiction, as in the case of western sahara or palestine? i'm finished. repeal the vote by roll call and reform the organic law on the electoral regime. and finally, equality between women and men is under threat. the gap is suffered by women. it is structural and it is everywhere. but we're not going to stop there. we will continue to fight to defend our interests as women.
president of the government of spain mr president, thank you to all the speakers and thank you also for the tone of the debate, which has been encouraged as each of the speeches has been raised and developed. i would ask the spokesmen for the various groups to allow me to reply to them as a whole and not to them personally, because otherwise i think we would be over-extending the answer to their questions. the central idea of the intervention is, of course, that we must protect europe so that europe can protect us. and that has clearly been overlooked in many of the speeches, at least in those of the main parliamentary groups. we all agree that we must strengthen europe, whatever ideological differences we may have. the question is in what direction, in what orientation. i would like to begin by referring to migration. i would say to mr weber that it is all right for him to convey the vision of the spanish people's party, but it would be good for him to know and to contrast this information, because migration did not arrive with the socialist government last june. to give you an idea, in 2017 the increase in migration flows in spain was 137%. by 137%. so what came with the spanish government was not migration, it was migration policy, which did not exist until then; which did not exist until then. what i will say to you, and what i will say to the other members, is that we have always known, we have always known - and that is why we also took the decision to welcome the aquarius, to offer valencia as a safe port - that the challenge of migration requires all countries, all member states, to have a shared position, a common position, based on two fundamental axes. the first is responsibility and the second is solidarity. we, of course, and the spanish government, are in favour of a policy, a foreign policy, such as that proposed by the vice-president of the european commission. he argues that we have to pour economic resources into the development and the momentum of africa. it advocates bilateral cooperation with many of the countries of transit and origin of migration. we have strengthened our bilateral dialogue with morocco, mauritania and all the sahel countries in the last seven months, not only in the interests of spain but also in the interests of the european union as a whole. to give you an idea, spain has had a return policy for many years, with morocco, with mauritania and with so many other countries in africa, in the sahel. in fact, a few days ago i was in mali, where we also pushed, or reopened in some way, a voluntary return policy for malian nationals who are currently living in spain. we are therefore promoting return policies from the government of spain. we are also strengthening our border policies. and, of course, what we are also doing is strengthening integration policies, because we believe it is important to strengthen those migration policies for all those migrants who are on our continent. and what i would like to say to you is that we, the spanish government, are of course in favour of reforming the common european asylum system and of not calling schengen into question, and i was, by the way, concerned that minority parties would not do so, ladies and gentlemen. it is a matter of the parties which are part of the major parties in the european parliament, such as the people's party. and i think that we cannot go backwards on that. that is why i am concerned, speaking and referring simply to the far right, not so much about the presence of the far right, ladies and gentlemen, but about how subtly the far right is shaping the discourse and political agenda of parties which were once european and which wanted to strengthen the european project. this government - and i acknowledge your brilliant oratory, mr verhofstadt - this government is absolutely in favour of the adoption of the multiannual financial framework. we have also done so in the european council. we have defended and i have defended in particular, and not only i, but also the previous government, with president rajoy at the head, the adoption of the multiannual financial framework before the elections. because we believe that it is fundamental to essential policies in spain, such as agricultural policy, cohesion policy, but also important policies, such as immigration policy or policies linked to science and innovation. by the way, mr weber, don't worry, because we are going to approve the general state budgets probably in april. the previous administration, with mr rajoy at the head, presented the budgets to the congress of deputies in april. so what i want to say to you with this is, not that we're going to go in time and form, but that we're going to anticipate what the previous administration proposed as a budget proposal to the whole house. and i think we will get it out, because i think they are good budgets, not only in the social field, with a considerable increase in the items linked to redistribution, but they also propose innovative formulas from the point of view of fiscal justice, such as the taxation of large technology corporations, such as the creation of the financial transaction tax, which are, without a doubt, some of the measures that you have proposed here in this house and that we are also leading at the level of spain. let me also speak for a moment about catalonia, because the spokeswoman, mrs keller, has done so. first of all. in catalonia, since 2014, since 2014, there have been five votes, five votes, around three autonomous electoral processes and then two referendums, in contravention of the constitution, the statute of autonomy in catalonia. what has been the result of these referenda and of these votes also in the spanish statutory framework? at most, 48% of catalan society has supported pro-independence formations and 52% has not supported pro-independence formations. the first conclusion is that the pro-independence movement in catalonia does not have a social majority. it has a parliamentary majority, a product and derivative of the electoral law, but it does not have a social majority. i insist that 52% of the society in catalonia does not support independence, does not support independence. well, therefore, the independence movement has to recognize that there is no social majority in catalonia. and therefore, it cannot support, or impose a political project on a majority that has been telling it repeatedly, since 2014, that it does not share this independenceist drift. first place. secondly. it is clear that in europe, not only in catalonia, but also in germany, in bavaria, in italy, in the veneto, in france, in corsica, there are territorial tensions, movements of territorial fragmentation, of the decomposition of what used to be the nation states. what is the difference between what has happened in catalonia and what has happened in the veneto, for example, or in bavaria, for example, when the independence of bavaria from germany or the independence of the veneto from italy has been defended by different political groups? when the constitutional court or the supreme court has ruled in the veneto case, or rather in italy in the veneto case or in germany in the bavarian case, these pro-independence forces have said 'we respect these judgments'. in spain it hasn't happened. in spain, despite repeated judgments by the constitutional court, what pro-independence groups have done is to unilaterally break the statute of autonomy, that is, the regional constitution in catalonia and the spanish constitution. so, therefore, the problem is that, somehow, the constitutional mandate has not been fulfilled or respected by the pro-independence forces, because the regional and state constitution has not been recognized. thirdly, it is clear that since 2010 catalonia has had a regional constitution, a statute of autonomy of catalonia, which was not voted on in its entirety by catalan society. so that's a problem we have to solve. and the spanish state is aware of this. one thing is certain, too. for ten years now, it has been clear that there are political parties which, when they are in opposition, use catalonia as a territorial encumbrance to oppose the socialist government in office and, when they are in government, what they do is claim loyalty, in this case, to the socialist party. we always will. we will be loyal, not to the government in office, when we are in opposition, but to the state. spain is a big country. spain is a country that has a level of decentralization, in the economic, in the social, in the cultural, in the recognition of languages, in what represents the educational approach of children who are in communities that have a high sense of nationality very important. there are indexes in the international community, not minor and quite solvent, by the way, that place spain as the second most decentralized country in the world. so, first, i think it is obvious that the independence movement in catalonia what it has to do is open a sincere dialogue and recognize the other side, which is the majority in catalonia, which is non-nationalist, and therefore catalonia has to talk to catalonia. and spain, the spanish government, has to facilitate this dialogue between the two, let us say, two dimensions that exist in catalonia at the moment: the nationalist and the non-nationalist. and what i can assure you of course is that the spanish government, unlike in past times, is firmly determined to resolve the situation in catalonia through dialogue, but always with due respect for the constitution and the statute of autonomy. but first, what the pro-independence movement in catalonia has to do is to recognize 1, that it does not have a social majority and 2, that it has to talk to the majority of catalan society, which wants a new agreement to get out of this loop in which it has been installed for more than ten years. to sum it up in a very succinct, very simple way, in catalonia the problem is not independence, it is coexistence. and finally, mr weber, you have made a reference to the motion of censure. the motion of censure had a mandate, which was the democratic regeneration in our country. what has happened in andalusia between the popular party, the liberal group and the brothers of the national front in france is an involution, a questioning of rights and consensus assumed and consolidated during the last few years, such as, for example, gender equality and the fight against gender violence. so what has happened in andalusia, ladies and gentlemen, is that a frontier has been crossed that exists in europe, and that is that there can be no agreement with the far right. of course, we social democrats will never agree with the far right, as we have seen with their arguments. in any case, ladies and gentlemen, i want to say that the spanish government's approach is to make europe strong. there are the proposals we have put forward in terms of the gender equality strategy, in terms of equality, or rather the fight against job insecurity, in terms of the child and youth guarantee. in short, in all those aspects which have to do with strengthening and protecting europe so that it protects us and, above all, those who are most vulnerable, the spanish government and, without a doubt, the spanish socialist workers' party, which is also represented here, can be found. and finally, mr verhofstadt, i will also say one thing to you: you have been in the european parliament for many years longer than i have. i've been in charge of the spanish government for seven months. i'm sure you can share with me your experience of frustration. i will also say one thing: i think that in my speech i have pointed out some ways out of this lack of speed in many of the decision-making that is needed in the field of economic and monetary union, in the field of foreign policy, which has to do with the change in decision-making procedures, both in the council and in parliament and the commission. and of course we will be there, as i have done from this podium, arguing that unanimity should not be required on such essential matters as those i have mentioned above. some of them will require a treaty amendment, but others will not. there are the walkways that the foreign minister, mr borrell, reminded me of. we can use these gateways to strengthen the overall character of our continent, of our union, in the field of foreign policy. thank you very much, mr. president.
mr president, we live in a time of fake news, but also, as we have seen, a time of false beliefs. you cannot say "i will never make a deal with the extremists" when you are in government thanks to the vote of the independence fighters, the former terrorists and the extreme, extreme left, and when, in the same speech, it has just been announced that the general state budgets will be approved - and can only be approved - with the vote of the independence fighters, the former terrorists and the extreme, extreme left. in any case, let me tell you, mr sánchez, that what has hurt me most about your speech today is that in your first speech, in which you spoke a lot about globalisation, you were unable to speak about the unity of spain, unable to defend the spanish rule of law. the yellow-posters had to press you to say something about catalonia. and what he said is that it is not a problem of independence, but of coexistence, when the supreme court is about to start a trial on rebellion in spain. we all expected the spanish prime minister to defend the rule of law in our country. i say this as a spanish deputy. we have been defending the unity of spain for two years now, and the members of your party have been defending it too. but to defend the unity of spain with conviction here, mr president, is not just a question of your job, it is also a question of conviction, and of conviction which is not false. unfortunately for the interests of our country, you, as president of the spanish government in the european parliament, have not succeeded today. it does to us. it hurts, but i can take it.
mr president, mr sánchez, this is a delicate moment for europe, and to hear you speak with a firm commitment to european values is really a relief to those of us who believe that the solution to our problems lies in europe. in more and better europe. some people cannot resist the temptation to bring the arguments of madrid to gain points in front of their party's initials, but i think we have little respect for the european project if we do not use this space, if we do not use the heart of europe to talk about how we are able to solve people's problems. more social justice, more balance, avoiding inequalities, moving towards a europe of equality between men and women, being able to look people in the eye and say that europe has the solution to their problems. that is the commitment of the europeans. that is the commitment of social democracy, and we will work tooth and nail to defend a greater and better europe. a europe that looks at the people and is able to give the european project a new lease of life. i am very grateful that we have governments in the european union who continue to defend, alongside this parliament, the fundamental values of the european project.
mr president, mr president sanchez, we are facing a growing and growing threat from populists and separatists, but condemnation is not enough. we must give effective answers to the cause of the paradigm shift: the diffuse economy, which has made the middle classes, which are the basis of democracy, precarious. but today we have more doctrine than solutions and more politicians than politics. president sánchez, the way forward is not with the separatists or the populists of the left or the right who want to destroy and weaken europe. in the face of populism and separatism, we must find ourselves as those who believe in and have built and want to continue to build europe. and defending it. i would also like to remind those who think that catalonia is a catalan problem that in catalonia the first party is a party that believes in spain and is called ciudadanos. not the separatists, the citizens. enough of the exclusion and sectarian use of what is everyone's - for example, feminism - and let's work together in defense of the common. our soul, more than ever, must be equality, solidarity and unity. president sánchez, that is true for europe and also for spain.
mr president, i have to say... mr sanchez, your government started by welcoming the aquarius and six months later it has ended up blocking the open arms in barcelona. by the way, to the delight of fascists like salvini. he promised to repeal the gag law and there he goes. he promised to repeal the labor reform and not only has he not done it, but he has not stopped companies with benefits, like alcoa, from laying off hundreds of workers. he promised a tax on the banks and it seems the tax never comes. he promised to regulate the rent bubble that's driving thousands of people from their homes and it looks like the vultures are winning. the question, mr sánchez, is whether the socialists will continue to be accomplices in the neoliberal policies of the grand coalition in europe. to stop the reactionary wave that is advancing, and that now rules in andalusia, we need a 180 degree turn in the austerity policies and cuts in the service of the elites. it is urgent to turn europe around and, mr sanchez, we are running out of time. you have to take sides.
mr president, mr sanchez, as your colleague has said, we are here today discussing the future of europe. and in that respect for europe, i have not understood why, in the end, your speech has turned into a small election rally in support of mr timmermans, the socialist candidate, and from him to you. and many of my colleagues also wonder whether the same energy that he used to accuse and persecute dictators of the past, he will use in the current dictatorships, in venezuela and in cuba. will you demand in the council that the venezuelan and cuban regimes be sanctioned or will you remain silent? many colleagues want to know if that will change. you spoke of the european democratic acquis that you respect: demonstrate that europeanism by denouncing in the european council and not supporting the dictatorial regimes of maduro and castro because it is still castro who runs cuba. and release the political prisoners. this is a political prisoners' meeting. there are political prisoners in cuba and venezuela: freedom for them, now. and please announce it to the council. then i will believe that you are a europeanist.
mr president, i have to say... mr esteban gonzález pons, being a patriot does not mean shouting 'long live spain!' but upholding constitutional and european values and not going along with those who want to destroy them. you had an opportunity here to show that you were a spanish patriot, by supporting the government of spain, as we socialists have always done in this house when spain was threatened and you came to us for help. but i want to tell you something. you came to the spanish government with the cry of 'spain is broken!' and this government received a spain more broken than ever, with more independence-seekers than ever, after two illegal referendums held when you were in power and with a deteriorated coexistence. and with this heritage we regret that you do not contribute to creating spaces of coexistence, which is precisely what the spanish government is promoting.
mr president, this is president sanchez. citizens expect the union to be useful, to provide a model of economic development with a soul, centred on people, respectful of diversity, built on voluntary and convinced membership. the basque nationalist party has been in this since the 1930s. we are therefore prepared to bring stability to our union, contributing to it as a state facing four challenges: transforming its development model; strengthening its social protection system; committing ourselves to projects with european added value; and solving problems of coexistence that require dialogue and policy. in the face of such complex problems, we applaud their willingness to avoid simplicity, a good principle which sounds much better than the well-known and failed recipes sold in thirty-second clips by the fashionable televangelists. we hope that the good words will be transformed into budgets inspired by these principles and into a courageous commitment to coexistence which assumes that, while outside the law, nothing is possible, with the law, either. and even less so if it is twisted to turn a political problem into a criminal case, as has happened in catalonia. that's what these photographs reveal. count on us if you decide to bet on the complex, the empathic, the humanistic, the european, the useful in order to build coexistence and solutions.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr sánchez, we welcome the progress made by the draft budgets in spain, because they remind europe that another way, a more social, more ecological way, is possible. in the face of the europe of markets and the europe of hatred, there is another europe of solidarity and sustainability that is looking at you and asking for more ambition. more ambition is to dare a humane migration policy. mr. sanchez, are you going to end the gag law and the hot returns of immigrants and refugees? will you allow ships like the open arms to continue saving lives in the mediterranean? more ambition is also daring to lead a green and just transition that leaves no one behind. if you're really committed to the paris climate agreement, to clean energy and jobs, are you going to put a date on the shutdown of coal and nuclear power plants? it's in your hands, show what europe stands for.
(the rapporteur opens his speech in catalan) mr president, mr sanchez, last year the previous spanish government set a terrible precedent in the european union by imprisoning peaceful social leaders, catalan government ministers and the president of the catalan parliament for authorising a debate. spain is today closer to turkey than to britain, which agreed and authorized a referendum on independence in scotland. in catalonia there is a growing majority in favour of a referendum, which is not a crime in the spanish penal code because of a zapatero reform in 2005. and one last question. what is it? commissioner almunia was in favour of the use of catalan in this house. we asked the psoe members if it was possible to speak in catalan today. federalism is speaking the other's language. when will we be able to speak catalan in this house? and finally, in catalonia there is no conflict of coexistence, but of spanish centralism. and it is in the referendum that all majorities converge. in the dialogue, he will find us.
mr president, mr sanchez, let me start by telling you that the spanish saying goes 'works are love and not good reasons'. you speak of extremism, you speak of the rhetoric of exclusive identities, and the problem is that in reality, in your reality as president of the government of spain, you do not practice any of this. from the minute one, from the minute a vote of confidence ended mr rajoy's presidency, you are in the arms of political parties - the catalan independenceists - who are exclusive in their practical rhetoric, and not just in rhetoric, who have tried to break the constitutional order, who are breaking the law and who have no institutional loyalty. mr president, you can come here, you can tell a story, but when in the end the reality and the facts differ in such a remarkable way, everyone, beyond our own borders, the spanish, will hear and will find out. you have to be consistent and you're not. he's proved it once again.
mr president, mr president of the spanish government, welcome to the european parliament. you have said, and rightly so, that the european union is a union founded on values. that is why this parliament has an unwavering and unwavering commitment to the cause of human rights, which do not have to be preached from a region, a country or a continent, but must have a planetary or universal character. that is why this parliament has instituted a prize for freedom of conscience named after andrei sakharov, who left a legacy of moral integrity and peaceful coexistence among peoples. this parliament has awarded the sakharov prize to three cuban dissidents: oswaldo payá, guillermo fariñas and the ladies in white. and last year to the democratic opposition in venezuela. i'd like to ask you what you think this prize is worth. do you think that the laureates of this prize are honorable people who defend their freedom and dignity? have you been to cuba? you haven't met with them? i ask you, would you be willing to meet with them? and, mr president of the government, this parliament has adopted by a large majority a resolution on venezuela calling on the european union and its member states to join the complaint before the international criminal court for the serious violations of human rights in that country. what do you think of this initiative? does it intend, like other member states - germany, france, canada - to join this proposal?
mr president, i have to say... you see, mr president of the spanish government, you should have thought that the popular party would have come from spain in tears after losing the motion of censure, but it did not. in fact, we have not heard a single idea about europe. they have, indeed, wept over spilled milk. and it's also become very clear, here in this house, that the patriotism of the people's party is absolutely intermittent. that is, they demand patriotism from the psoe when the psoe is in opposition, but they don't give us even a little bit of patriotism when we are in government. in any case, and to consolidate the idea you have brought to this house, which i believe is central, there is a blast of populism, a blast of national populism, a blast of rupture, a blast of fracture in europe, a blast of extremism, a blast of reaction: a reaction against european unity, a reaction against the strength of the union, a reaction against the strength of women. it's a reactionary national-populist movement that claims to have no complexes. neither are we, mr president. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left behind.
mr president, mr president sanchez, welcome to this house. europe is the world's number one destination and spain is the second country, after france, where the most tourists go and the second country from which the most income is received, after the united states. the tourism sector is a proven strength. but tourism, in addition to innovation, sustainability and quality in services, needs security and stability. and that's what i want to talk to you about. you owe your government to the same people who fight tourism, who demonize it, who actually expel common sense from daily life with vandalism in gandia, in the balearic islands, in valencia, in catalonia undermining coexistence. mr president, when there is no stability, it is a blow to the whole tourism sector and to the coexistence of a country. europe gives us an example every day of strength, of principles and of conviction, but you are trying every day to go in another direction. it deliberately encourages division among citizens: it is tolerant of the intolerant, irresponsible of those who want to fight europe and the institutions. to combat authoritarianism, the best medicine is to follow the law. that is why i am asking you to return to the path of europe and to govern with a pact, but only if it is not secret and only if it is by the ballot box.
mr president, allow me to make a point of order, firstly, because i want to reject and regret that posters of alleged criminals who have been released from prison are allowed to be placed, which is disrespectful to this house and to the speakers, in this case the president of the government of spain. mr president, i have to say... mr sánchez, you have come here asking to protect the european model, among other things, against the extremist ideologies that threaten it. let me tell you that you can apply to you that saying of "advice i give, which i do not have". because you, mr sánchez, tell us about the danger of extremism in europe, which is true, but at the same time, please explain to us in this house and to all of europe that you are president of the government of spain thanks precisely to those extremists. i am referring to the catalan nationalist coup plotters, the chavistas podemos, the pro-bildu batasuna, who are the political arm of the eta terrorists, with whom you, by the way, pride yourself on sharing the tablecloth at certain shameful meals. i should rather explain what you are doing, mr sánchez, governing with the biggest scumbags in spanish politics and the whole of the european union.
mr president, mr president sanchez, today the voice of the europeans who believe in a europe has brought us here - inaudible words - the voice in the world. a social europe that is concerned about job insecurity, child poverty and that wants to improve the conditions of workers. an environmentally conscious europe that leads the world in the fight against climate change. an open europe that makes tolerance its raison d'être and fulfils its international obligations in the field of refuge in solidarity and responsibility. and a feminist europe that makes gender equality one of its flags. that is the europe which the spanish government is defending today, a voice which europeans need and which is welcomed by this house. a europe which also understands that its future will depend on the building of a common, joint citizenship and which makes coexistence, dialogue, its raison d'être. and, moreover, it brings the voice of a new government which has also entered a new political stage in my land, in catalonia: a stage of dialogue, of self-government, of the constitution, a stage of respect for coexistence, which seeks political solutions. that is what the new spanish government has brought and it is the only solution for the future of the catalans.
mr president, i have to say... i would hope, mr sánchez, that here in europe today, in a speech that has lasted thirty-seven minutes, you would devote at least ten seconds to referring to the outermost regions of the european union, including the canary islands. you're disappointing me again. it speaks to us of the future of europe, but the future of europe is necessarily linked to the future of the outermost regions, regions recognised in the treaty itself, remote and with peculiar characteristics, which need all the support they can get. i know that for you the canary islands are nothing more than a tourist destination to spend the end of the year. but for this parliament and for the european union, the ors are much more than that: they are an opportunity and an example of what integration, cohesion and solidarity policy should be. president tajani has repeatedly stated that the outermost regions are of the utmost importance. and it is true. i hope that after their passage through this parliament they will be for you too. it's in line with the canaries. it complies with the outstanding agreements. it is a matter of the interests of the ors and you can be sure that from here, from the heart of europe, you will have our full support.
mr president, i have to say... first of all, i would like to welcome to this house the president of the government of my country, his entire government and, of course, his foreign minister, josep borrell, former president of this parliament. i would simply like to highlight the word federalism in your speech. the need to continue to call for the construction of a federal europe, an idea which also serves the organization of our country, spain, which is nothing more than the recognition of harmony, of the ability to live in freedom and equality. we need that harmony in the union to protect the citizens; we need that harmony to protect the european union too, which needs to reform monetary union. we need that fiscal pillar, probably along with the unemployment insurance which the spanish government is defending and which the socialist group has been fighting for in this house for the last few years, and we need to build a majority in the next elections with the commission, the council and parliament, in order to have an unemployment insurance scheme which protects the citizens.
mr president, i have to say... since spain joined the european union, the ibero-american question, the strengthening of relations with ibero-america has been a priority for a spanish leader. i wonder how you have forgotten to mention today, not only venezuela, but, for example, the very important negotiations with mercosur, mr president. in his speech, i'm concerned, not only about what he says, but also about the absences. another issue whose importance i would also like to stress to you is brexit and, in particular, fisheries issues. i would ask you, in the context of the future brexit negotiations - we shall see how they turn out - to give priority attention not only to gibraltar, which deserves it, but also to the issues of fisheries, reciprocal access to waters and resources. there are many interests at stake, european, spanish and also from my region, galicia. and that's the end of it. i am pleased with the accounts and budgets of the european union, and i would point out to him that the new multiannual financial framework and the commission's legislative texts do not leave some spanish regions in a good position, which may suffer severe cuts in funding. i ask you to pay attention to that point as well.
the rapporteur. mr president, pursuant to rule 59 (4), i ask that the report be referred back to committee to begin the institutional negotiations.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, the topic of our debate today touches on the very core of our union and what it stands for. the authoritarian and totalitarian regimes across europe in the last century remain a dark chapter in our continent’s history. our union is based on the common values and the general principles of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. its aim is to uphold and promote these values, which, as we are all well aware, have been increasingly challenged in recent years. fortunately, younger generations have not suffered under totalitarian regimes, yet there is now a risk that we are taking these common values and principles for granted. our common values have enabled the longest period of peace in europe. they remain a cornerstone of our democratic societies and they need to be safeguarded and constantly nurtured. today we face a number of challenges that put our open societies at risk, be it through xenophobia, divisive nationalism, discrimination, disinformation or violent radicalisation, to name just a few. if we are fully to understand the present, an awareness and understanding of the past is crucial. a lack of knowledge about the origins of the union and about the way in which it works increases the risk of discrimination. it also prevents citizens from developing informed opinions on the actions that the union takes. on the other hand, knowledge about the diversity, heritage and traditions within the union and its member states promotes mutual respect, understanding and cooperation, which in turn can strengthen a common sense of belonging. we know that education can play a crucial role in promoting our common values and in promoting a better understanding of the union and of each other. we are also all well aware that the union’s competence in the field of education is limited and that member states remain fully responsible for their education systems and for the design of their curricula. however, at a time when europe is looking to the future and seeking to re-engage its citizens, especially young people, around an agenda of shared values, we believe it is important to create a sense of belonging among europeans. in this spirit, the member states have therefore made a number of commitments, as evidenced in various political statements, be they council conclusions or recommendations, which provide a strong basis for cooperation in this area. at the gothenburg summit in november 2017, the eu heads of state and government chose education and culture as the first subject to be addressed under the new leaders’ agenda, underlining their resolution to do more in these areas. the gothenburg discussions were followed by the conclusions of the european council of december 2017, which highlighted how education and cultures are key to building inclusive and cohesive societies. in may 2018, the council adopted a recommendation on promoting common values, inclusive education and the european dimension of teaching. this recommendation was a follow-up to the paris declaration of 2015, in which education ministers stressed the importance of the role that education can play in this respect. the commitments of the paris declaration are as relevant today as they were then. in addition to our efforts in this area at national level, we need to make the best use of the union’s instruments and programmes, such as erasmus+, horizon, creative europe, europe for citizens and the european solidarity corps, the support initiatives that serve to promote our common values. we need to provide our young people with the skills and competencies to become active, informed and responsible citizens. media literacy and critical thinking are crucial skills in today’s society. our young people need to develop the critical analysis and understanding needed to cope with the ever—growing volume of information. they need to be aware of the need to identify correctly, and use, reliable sources of information and of the risk of disinformation. finally, it is of the utmost importance to promote and encourage tolerance, mutual understanding and intercultural dialogue in order to secure a better future. the role of educational staff and their continuing professional development plays a key role in this respect. it is important to learn how to address difficult or sensitive topics or controversial issues and not to leave them unaddressed. teachers need support in their new role in an ever more diverse classroom. this subject is closely tied in with the priorities of our presidency. as our prime minister outlined yesterday, one of our main pillars is the europe of common values. we aim to stimulate the solidarity and cohesion of the european union by promoting policies on combating discrimination, ensuring equal chances and equal treatment, and by increasing the involvement of citizens, particularly young people, in the european debate. to conclude, i can assure you that this issue will remain high on the council’s political agenda. thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much for having put this important and very timely debate on the agenda. learning about our history and analysing the complex forces at play between and within our societies is the basis for understanding the world we are living in today. knowing about our past is also critical for building the future of our continent and our countries. let us not forget that the original underlying idea of the european integration project – ensuring that its dark history does not repeat itself and preserving our freedoms, shared values and ways of life – needs to be defended every day. commemorating and teaching that past, as well as cultivating the memory of troubled times, are key to shaping a common future. it is important to include all totalitarian regimes – be they fascist, communist or others – as we do on the europe-wide day of remembrance for the victims of these regimes, on 23 august each year. the commission supports remembrance, research and education in the field of totalitarianism in a variety of ways. preserving the memory of europe’s totalitarian past is one of the core themes of the current europe for citizens programme, which supports activities that encourage reflection on european cultural diversity and on common values. funds are available for initiatives that reflect on the causes behind the rise of totalitarian regimes in europe’s modern history and commemorate the victims of their crimes. furthermore, europe for citizens is the union’s main tool to support initiatives that raise awareness of and educate about the holocaust. each year the commission invests eur 3.5 million in these projects. several operational grants support holocaust memorials and education sites. remembering the holocaust needs to remain a priority. in that context, the eu has recently acquired permanent international partner status with the international holocaust remembrance alliance. the commission is also supporting the largest-ever eu-funded research initiative on the holocaust, with eur 8 million, through the horizon 2020 project. it is called european holocaust research infrastructure. further, in the field of research, in 2015 and 2017 the commission published calls under the horizon 2020 programme to support research on cultural opposition in the former socialist countries and on improving mutual understanding among europeans by working through troubled past. take, for example, the project courage which stands for - cultural opposition – understanding the cultural heritage of dissent in the former socialist countries. this project has created the first digital database highlighting various forms of cultural opposition in former socialist countries. the project concluded that education and research on cultural heritage are crucial to support open pluralistic democracies. in the field of education, the union supports and complements national policies aimed at better understanding our history and shared values. the current erasmus+ programme has so far supported some 30 projects dealing with history and totalitarianism in the eu. these projects gave pupils and students the chance to learn about the past in a direct way and make changes in their own lives as a desired result. last year, the commission put forward a council recommendation on promoting common values, inclusive education and the european dimension of teaching. member states agreed on it after only several months; this was a real milestone. never before has the eu said so clearly how important it is to promote our common values, to create a sense of belonging, to teach about the functioning values and origins of the eu, and, most importantly, learn about the complex cultural and historical experiences in our member states. the commission strongly believes that education is also the most effective means of preventing antisemitism. this is why the commission is co-funding a study entitled the holocaust in contemporary education, a joint initiative with unesco. finally, we can raise awareness and understanding through our cultural heritage, and i am proud that the european heritage label has been awarded to sites of historical significance. sites such as poland’s historic gdańsk shipyard or the sighet memorial in romania. let me reassure you that the commission will continue to promote remembrance of totalitarian regimes, whatever their ideological basis. understanding our past is crucial if we are to live together and to build a better future for our continent.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our union was born from the smoking ashes of totalitarianism on the left and right, but also as a refuge and hope against it. i would like to recall a reflection by president vaclav havel on the similarity of the roots of the totalitarian system, on the irresistible tendency of ideologies to become independent of reality and life. in a totalitarian reality, ideology replaces reason, and truth is simply identified with power. if europe's memory is weakening, if its citizens do not understand its past, including the great traditions of reason, the end of the division of the continent envisaged in the treaties will not become a reality. this common history should inspire all research initiatives, all educational plans to prevent totalitarian dementia. the fight against totalitarianism, which the classics called simply tyranny, is a common struggle for the union, for freedom and democracy, precious but fragile assets, like human memory, which need attention and persevering care. it is vital to preserve the memory of totalitarianism, but we must do so from the perspective of european history, of a common european history, so as not to encourage excessive national particularism, so as not to give wings to nationalism and, in short, to honour the truth. yes, the truth exists, and it should be our most transcendent and luminous goal and a great inspiration to all.
mr president, i have to say... in the age of fake news and post-truth, the way to rearm ourselves as a society is through quality education and a free and plural media. it will be well-educated and well-informed citizens who will be able to stand up to those who want to falsify history, such as the leader of the spanish popular party, pablo casado, when he says that the spaniards did not colonize, but what they did was to have a bigger spain. out of respect for the victims, it is imperative to react to this kind of insult to memory. we must work on historical memory to give voice to those who could not participate in the construction of the official discourse, to recognize the forgotten part of the denied history, to restore justice and to make reparations to those who suffered injustice. we must do so not only with the memory of the atrocities of totalitarian regimes, but also with the memory of all those regimes which have based their power on the systematic violation of fundamental rights.
mr president, i have to say... spain is an exception in europe. it's an exception to impunity. only in spain do we have monuments that apologise for fascist dictatorships, like franco's. only in spain do we have federally funded fascist apologetic associations, associations dedicated to genocide and murder. in spain alone we have thousands of corpses in the gutters not exhumed. we are the second country in the world, after cambodia, with the most disappeared. only in spain is the principle of universal justice suspended, because argentine courts are refusing to question alleged criminals for crimes against humanity in the face of possible prosecution. throughout this parliament we have asked commissioner timmermans to receive the victims, the victims' families, and he has refused. if the european commission continues to refuse to receive the victims of francoism, it will be complicit in impunity.
rapporteur. – mr president, i also address myself to the commissioner and the colleagues who played the role of shadows for the annual report on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu in 2017. this report had to be relatively brief, which it is. when you consider all fundamental rights in the whole of europe during one year, it is clear that you are tempted to speak about a tremendous amount of things. we have avoided this and have focused on six main topics. some of them necessarily extended, all of them of undeniable relevance and of major concern: the rule of law, migration, women’s rights, media freedom, freedom of expression and assembly, racism, xenophobia, discrimination, hate speech and other forms of intolerance, the role and mandate of the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra). we agreed from the very beginning on the criteria under which we had to work on it. our main political and moral criterion is the common view that we didn’t want to produce a completely neutral analysis of fundamental rights in europe, but our aim was to make a joint reflection on the values of the union, not just to defend them but also to suggest ways and steps to improve the charter. allow me a personal remark. no one thinks that the charter will be stronger and more vivid if we maintain article 51, which should be interpreted in a wider way to avoid that we have to advance at a good speed but with the handbrake on. i am convinced that we have produced a good report. i will highlight just a few aspects. first, as for the rule of law, we stress that the eu’s ineffectiveness in ending the breaches of the values referred to in article 2 is undermining both trust among the member states and the credibility of the european union. migration is still a major concern. in 2017, 650 000 first-time asylum seekers applied for international protection in the member states. more than 1 000 refugees have drowned in the mediterranean sea. humanitarian aid has been criminalised. states have not been able to undo the knot of the dublin regulation. women’s rights are clearly defended in the text, now when in some countries and among certain people they are attacked or dismissed. media freedom, freedom of expression and assembly that in the past counted among the fundamental rights for free men and women have now to be restored, even in places and countries where one would not expect them to be under threat. artists or social leaders are also the victims, now and then. racism, xenophobia, discrimination, hate speech and many forms of intolerance are reducing equality and freedom among human beings. we have tried to show that there are many forms of intolerance and discrimination, that our life can only be built up if it benefits from a rich soil of justice and a good atmosphere of freedom. as a final point, we mentioned the agency for fundamental rights, fra, based in vienna, which is doing an excellent job and has never before appeared in our annual reports. fra should be active, not only in giving support when asked to do so but it should also be proactive in discovering and denouncing cases where human rights are at stake or have been abolished. the fra needs a new mandate. our 21 pages are, in my opinion, a text which is at once simple, clear and forceful, thanks to the shadow colleagues and to the advisers who decisively contributed to this satisfactory result.
on behalf of the green group, mr president first of all, i would like to congratulate mr josep maria terricabras on this report, which brings to light what we call rights and freedoms on paper, but we ask this parliament not to remain on paper, but to analyse reality. in 2017, visiting refugee camps, we were able to see firsthand what the situation was like for migrants, for refugees, for people who have been fleeing for their lives. it was also a dismal year for the deaths in the mediterranean, commissioner, as you said. a desolate year, a year which will be remembered throughout europe. but it was also a very hard year for women's rights, for sexual and reproductive rights, including the right to abortion, even if it bothers that part of the house. and of course, it was a bad year for media freedom and for freedom of expression and assembly, especially because of the concentration of media and the abuse of power in some of them. and finally, mr president, discrimination, racism, xenophobia and incitement to hatred are precisely the basis of what we have seen and what is happening, and the threat of what the next european parliament may be, from parties like mrs le pen's to the vox party.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues for their comments and for their support. with your report, we will send the message that the promotion and safeguarding of human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights can make europe unique and a worthy political project. it is only by placing the wellbeing of the people at the core of the european union’s policies and decisions that europe will re-engage with its citizens. this is why, although the charter sets out the basic rights that must be respected, we must continue to denounce and address the breaches and violations of their provisions. it is our responsibility to protect the weakest and confront the powerful.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, commissioner, mr hoyer, i am speaking today on behalf of the committee on budgets to set out the points which we have considered important to highlight in the opinion we have drawn up on the report on the activities of the european investment bank. and, for lack of time, i shall concentrate on the most important issues that we have included in this opinion. first of all, the eib must continue to strengthen its investment capacity to fill the investment gap we have, both in the public and private sectors, and to maintain its countercyclical profile through these investments. investments which must have a clear objective of job creation, but also of quality employment, and which must be sustainable over time. and in this connection it is also important to stress that support for small and mediumsized enterprises must be further strengthened; communication and access to information on all the programmes available to the bank must be improved so that small and mediumsized enterprises can participate more effectively. it is also essential - and not only because of the existence of the european fund for strategic investments - that collaboration with national and regional banks and development institutions continue to develop in order to improve the impact of investments and to provide appropriate technical assistance to project promoters. and in this same vein, but speaking of investments abroad, greater and better coordination with the development banks is also essential in order to ensure consistency in the mandates and, above all, to be more efficient and to eliminate duplications. and on the other hand, i would also like to highlight the bank's efforts to achieve that target of 25% of climate-friendly investments. we must continue along this path and improve this objective in the next period. and finally, as every year - and this is the last of this mandate - i would like to ask the eib to continue its work, to continue its efforts to improve transparency and accountability, as well as the control of financial intermediaries to combat fraud, tax evasion and avoidance.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i too share the praise for the report and the rapporteur, but i would like to highlight two ideas which i think are not sufficiently reflected in the european parliament's position on the importance of the european investment bank. because i agree with you that it is certainly a major global player in the european union, which is of extraordinary importance in the implementation of the policies, priorities and objectives of the european union's policy. and in that sense, my first thought is about the importance of action in third countries. there are indeed many countries in which it is operating; that is true, but i wonder if we could not envisage an increase in our lending and our banking operations in more countries. europe is "often said" to be a soft power, a country whose foreign policy is largely weakened because its military presence or foreign policy is too weak. i believe that our financial action - the importance of this bank, so great in so many ways - must be reassessed. and secondly, speaking of third countries, my second point is precisely to make it clear in the report that third countries are not just the eastern neighbours or that third countries are not all in the east. i think there is too much detail about the neighbourhood in the east and too little reference to africa and latin america. in africa, we play a lot; we know that. and i think that the european investment bank, although it has started to operate, especially in relation to what has to do with climate change, has to do more. and latin america is very important. we must do more: in cuba, in colombia, in central america, because the bank does very important things for those countries.
madam president, mr hoyer, the juncker plan, which you have managed, was intended to boost demand at a time of crisis. it was intended to be a counter-cyclical instrument to encourage investment in a time of depression. we have moved from the juncker plan to the efsi 2.0 and now to investeu. in my opinion - and that is the question i want to ask you - there is a problem, which we may have to face if we are not skilled, and that is that the countercyclical capacity that the juncker plan had at its inception may be lost by establishing a permanent investment system, one more element to be able to finance, with more activity by the eib. that is fine, it is fine that there is more investment capacity; but in my view we are losing the countercyclical capacity of that element. and i would like to know how the eib can improve this countercyclical instrument which was at the origin of the design of the juncker plan.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president i welcome both mr katainen, of course, and mr hoyer. thank you for being present in this debate. and of course i thank and congratulate mr pirinski because he has poured into this report all his wisdom and the follow-up of years and in-depth study of the intricate activities of the european investment bank, especially since we continue to raise the need for the court of auditors to be able to audit those activities as well. i would just like to quickly go through three points that are repeated. firstly, the urgent need to balance the territorial impact. you tell us, mr hoyer, and i think i understand you correctly, that 2018 is - we are talking about 2017 - a major breakthrough, and you have named a number of countries, which you said were the fifth in the activities of 2018. i would like to know if they are all together or if they are all in fifth place in the ranking, because i think that in fourth was spain i think or italy, so it would be a considerable advance. if they're all together, it's worse. secondly, the phenomenon of migration. we are again faced with the problem that in africa, as you have said - not to speak of the middle east, but especially in africa - we find that your bank has signed multiple contracts in connection with loans, micro-credits or micro-enterprises, and we are very pleased about that. but when we go to implementation, we find that most of them are at zero; and that worries us very much, because we have to somehow make the european investment bank also a bank for the development policies of our main partners. thirdly, innovation. once again we find that start-ups ask us for funding and end up going to the united states. i'd like to know why. and finally - if i may say so, madam president - i was surprised to find that the jobs created by the projects are not measured. there is no formula to see the employment effects of their projects. i think it is time for the european investment bank to start counting them.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, the other day a journalist asked me if i thought this regulation was necessary and my answer was very clear: yes, absolutely. we have discussed rights violations in the european union several times during this term of office and we have also seen how slow and ineffective the existing instruments are. the european union is a community based on common values which we must defend and respect as citizens and as member states of the union. this is not a europe of rights and not of duties. when a country wants to join the union, it has to meet a number of requirements in economic, political, fiscal and judicial matters. these requirements are many and very strict, and that is why it takes candidate countries years to get in - if they get in. and once inside, what happens? once we pass that test, can we do whatever we want? obviously not. this review must be continuous and if deficiencies are found, they must be corrected and if not, an effective and proportionate system of sanctions must be established. i must confess that i would have preferred direct sanctions, but i understand that the treaty does not provide for them in these cases. so i think the commission has made a very clever proposal, using the tools at its disposal, in this case the european budget. but as i said in the committee on budgets, i think the european commission has also missed a golden opportunity, because if we put together the two ideas i have just outlined - respect for the values of the european union, but also protection of the budget - we are short if we stick only to the rule of law. because the values we are talking about are the values enshrined in article 2 of the treaty on european union: respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, human rights, solidarity, justice, tolerance... all those are in article 2. they are the ones who define our union and they are the ones we have to protect. but we also have to protect the european budget, and there is no greater attack on public accounts, solidarity and european values than tax evasion, fraud and unfair competition. and that is why it seemed to me essential that this should also be one of the values, one of the criteria to be monitored, examined and, if necessary, sanctioned. we cannot talk about equality, justice, solidarity if we look the other way in the face of fiscal injustice. in our meetings to prepare parliament's position, in addition to discussing - as you well know - the subject of the regulation at length, we also discussed and negotiated three main aspects. one: the protection of the final beneficiaries. when we are setting penalties through the european budget, we have to be very scrupulous about the mechanisms and make sure that those penalties go directly to the offenders and not to the final beneficiaries. and so i think that with the changes made - thanks to the commission's technical services we have been able to work on this - the safety net we have defined is much more guaranteed for the final beneficiaries. the second aspect we have also worked on is the panel of experts, because decision-making under this regulation is going to be a very sensitive subject. the european commission must have all the information at its disposal to be able to take a reasoned, objective decision, and above all, free from any partisan temptation, and this is the purpose of setting up a panel of experts: to advise the european commission in this task. and finally, the role of the european parliament. in the commission's proposal, our role was that of mere observer and this is not acceptable, because we are talking about values, but about the budget, and in the budget this house is also the budgetary authority, as is the council, and therefore we must have a say and a vote. i would like to end, madam president, with a phrase which the president of the government, mr pedro sánchez, said this morning during the debate: it is time to defend and protect the values which make our project unique.
i would like to thank mrs gardiazabal and especially mr sarvamaa for the work they have done in the committee on budgetary control, which has been very difficult and complex. i would also have preferred direct and political sanctions in the council, rather than having the commission and parliament carry out work which finally affects the good name of european financing: it is no longer very good, because it is what we lacked. but i think mr sarvamaa and mrs gardiazabal have got a good text where the part of the funds that is well protected is mentioned. because it is clear that without an independent judiciary, without independent judges, it is obviously impossible to protect the financial interests of european funds which affect the beneficiaries, the citizens. i think they have achieved that squaring of the circle, that is, amending or trying to change the habits of governments by means of financial punishment, but without reaching the beneficiaries. as for the committee of experts, i must say that i did not like it very much. i understand that, i understand why it has been done, but i think that taking decisions out of the hands of the political decision-makers, in this case parliament, which already reports on human rights within the union, always seems to me to be risky and ends up in a confrontation. but i understand why it was done and i hope we'll follow it very closely. in short, i think that a good text has been achieved, which is difficult and complex, but if we manage to apply it well and explain it, above all, well, we will achieve what we have been saying this morning: that in order to achieve the europe that mr macron is proposing, we must first of all protect it from those who want to erode it. and in this case, this text, i think it will serve that purpose.
the rapporteur. mr president, i will end quickly because it has been a very long day and there are still some speeches and debates to be held in this house. but i agree with what the commissioner has just said. i have listened to this debate, i have listened carefully to this debate, i fully understand the legitimate doubts raised by certain speakers here and i am sure that both mr sarvamaa and i are committed to continue working on this report and to try to reach an agreement with the romanian presidency at this time. so i simply want to take the little time i have left now to thank mr sarvamaa very sincerely for his cooperation. we started from somewhat different positions - let us put it that way - but i think we have managed to produce a good report thanks to your work, but also thanks to the work of the negotiators from the other political groups, both from the committee on budgetary control and the committee on budgets. and i would also like to thank the european commission, commissioner oettinger and all their services, because they have been very helpful in carrying out our work. so i simply hope that what we have negotiated over the last few months will be ratified tomorrow in the vote in this house and that we can start negotiating with the romanian presidency and improve the text even further.
mr president, i have to say... commissioner jourová, they say that the european union is being challenged as never before in its founding values, but it is above all challenged by the manifestly, rabidly anti-european attitudes and behaviour that are spreading across europe. that is why it is so important that this european parliament should take a favourable position on the adoption of an instrument that promotes european values through non-governmental organisations, the third sector and civil society that are willing to commit themselves to the european ideal and construction, and that this should be budgeted for in the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework. we are thus sending a very clear message of commitment to the defence of the european union, which is in line with what we heard this morning from the president of the spanish government: the need for europeans of the europeanist persuasion to protect europe. the slogan 'europe that protects' was not coined in any way to shield europe from imaginary enemies or scapegoats such as immigrants or refugees, but, on the contrary, to defend and protect europe against the real enemies, which are xenophobia, hate speech spread by lies and lack of solidarity. and the hate speech spread by lies must be answered with force by this european instrument, which has the full support of the european parliament. it certainly has from the socialists and democrats in the european parliament.
in writing. there is no objection to the significant sum of money, close to eur 800 million, which will be spent by the eu on the decommissioning of the nuclear reactors at the ignalina plant, covered by the lithuanian accession treaty to the union. however, we think that this report is a great opportunity to reflect on the decommissioning costs of nuclear energy. in the eu, there are more than 90 fully operational and undecommissioned reactors and our nuclear power plant is one of the oldest in the world, with 75% of its plants more than 30 years old and 15% more than 40 years old. with so many power stations closed and with the failure of the states to remove the shut down installations, the commission should take action and force the states to require the owners of the power stations to dismantle these sources of potential radioactive contamination.
author. mr. president, in azerbaijan corruption is not just any problem, it is an endemic problem, and anyone who dares to denounce it ends up imprisoned or tortured. this is the situation we're talking about here. this is the situation of mehman hüseynov, who is serving a two-year sentence and is facing new charges, so he may be imprisoned for another seven. prior to his arrest in 2017, hüseynov launched the "find corrupt officials" campaign, in which he exposed corruption committed by azerbaijan's ruling elite. this elite set up a secret plot to pay european figures, buy luxury goods and launder money. according to the allegations, azerbaijan's political leadership, accused of systematic human rights abuses, widespread corruption and election rigging, bought european politicians and journalists to curb criticism of the president, silence human rights violations and promote a positive image of the country. it's what's called "caviar diplomacy". one of these european authorities was pedro agramunt, who had to resign as president of the council of europe and as a member of its parliamentary assembly following this and other scandals. but as corruption seems to be endemic in his party the pp, he continues to serve as a senator in spain today. corruption is also pervasive in large natural resource extraction projects, but azerbaijan is crucial as a resource source for europe in its eagerness to seek an alternative to russia. that is why we have not discussed this in this resolution either. azerbaijan is the origin of the south caucasus gas pipeline and the btc oil pipeline, 1,700 km of pipeline that transport oil to the west. it was, by the way, the corruption of the btc, promoted by british petroleum, ten years ago, that prompted the council of europe's smear campaign we spoke of earlier. we demand that all european participation in the south caucasus corridor be cancelled. that the negotiations on the association agreement be suspended, since there is no will to respect the freedom of expression, association and assembly of its citizens. we recall that a few months ago this house approved the conditioning of the association agreement on the release of political prisoners and the opening up of the workplace for civil society. we're still waiting for it. we call, as we did in 2017, for an investigation by the competent authorities in the field of combating fraud and money laundering of the so-called 'caviar diplomacy'. and of course, we urge the spanish authorities to use all mechanisms at their disposal to investigate the allegations against senator pedro agramunt and force him to resign his seat in the senate. it seems, once again, that when it comes to the european union's foreign policy towards its neighbours, values and interests, which are deeply intertwined rather than mutually exclusive, (unintelligible words) lead to real provisions and clear measures being taken against azerbaijan.
mr president, commissioner malmström, over the past mandate of the european parliament i was given the chance, the opportunity, to be a member of an electoral observation mission in sudan and it was compelling to see live and first-hand the massive exercise of democratic will of the sudanese people through a long day of voting and scrutiny. so, it's only sad that again we see ourselves here in the european parliament discussing massive violations of fundamental rights in sudan under the pressure of president bashir who has just been prosecuted by the international court of justice and promoting a constitutional reform, which leads to illegal detentions of those activists who care about the rule of law in sudan. so the usual thing is that we have these discussions with high representative mogherini, but it makes sense that it is you commissioner malmström, the one in charge of trade, who secures that there will be sanctions to this kind of behaviour, which is completely unacceptable for the international community and for the values of the european union and what it stands for.
mr. chairman, i of course agree with the motion for a resolution that we're voting on today. i feel the same way about the situation in sudan as my colleagues. i merely note the sad fact that the situation in sudan is a recurring theme here. we have repeatedly spoken about the suppression of human rights in this african country and unfortunately the situation is getting worse. i don't know if there's a solution, that's a question for you, commissioner. we need to tighten sanctions on this country, stop aid to the regime of president bashir, his people, freeze their accounts, do more economic damage. it's probably the only way to put some kind of pressure on this crazy political regime, but i'm afraid we're not going to get it all figured out. the adoption of these resolutions has a significant symbolic value, and i hope that the commission will translate this symbolic value into concrete actions and steps to undermine the regime of mr bashir.
mr president, first of all we must analyse what is happening in that african country, sudan: inequality, violence, lack of resources among the population, lack of human rights, lack of freedom of the press, and so on and so forth. this is an x-ray, mr president, of what is happening in many african countries. but in sudan the current political and social landscape is increasingly worrying, because the opposition is being suppressed with violence and the government does not allow demonstrations, as it uses force to dissolve them and there are more than forty dead, not counting the injured and the detained. sudan is on the verge of an election in 2020 which, i fear, given what is happening in that country, will lead to more repression of the political forces of the opposition and that those who do not dance to the sound of the macabre president al-bashir will also be persecuted. and it will persecute, let us not forget, anyone who is a christian and who cannot freely exercise or show his faith. that is why i call on the institutions of the european union to take action to punish sudan for the injustices that this government is unjustly inflicting on its people.
the rapporteur. mr president don't worry, you'll love to hear me say, we have the opportunity, by voting yes to the mandate, to have a fisheries management plan for the western mediterranean for the first time. that's why i'm asking for the warrant. we have made a great effort with the agreements on commitments, we have approved 24 commitments, until the last minute... we postponed the commission's vote to get a better deal. we made it. if you vote in favour, we shall be able to put forward, for the first time in the mediterranean fish stocks, a comprehensive management plan. this is a great opportunity. if we say no to the mandate, there will be no management plan in the mediterranean.
madam president, thank you for the big support. in line with the conference of president decision for mff related files, i would request that parliament refers the matter back to the committees responsible for institutional negotiations in accordance with rule 59a.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, following the decisions taken on wednesday, it is particularly appropriate to use a spanish saying to congratulate the european commission. brussels has prevented us from getting our rice. this expression is used in english in many contexts to emphasize the danger of not making decisions in time. the commission has reacted swiftly and forcefully to the complaints from the producers. european sovereignty has been used to protect an unprocessed european agricultural product from unfair competition from third countries under the generalized preferences system. this is how we combat euroscepticism: by demonstrating in the valencian albufera, the ebro delta, lombardy and piedmont, among others, that brussels, europe, is useful; by explaining that this safeguard clause is forceful, lasting and, moreover, effective; by stressing that, as a union alone, we have been able to meet the challenge of imports which have increased by a factor of forty in five years, which has clearly affected the market share of european producers, production and prices. this reduction has ranged from 10% to 30% depending on the european growing areas, with a negative impact on employment and profitability. and the existence of a negative effect on these parameters is precisely the condition required by the regulation to trigger this type of measure. that is how europe is built. but also by devoting all our efforts to ensuring that our farmers continue to gain positions in the value chain of their products. and that requires helping them to partner, to innovate, to participate in the marketing, distribution and transformation industry. under these conditions, this type of import operation, which is typical of the logic of wholesale distribution, would be less common. so let us welcome this measure. and we combat euroscepticism by spreading it, valuing it and encouraging and helping our producers to associate, and by encouraging training, innovation and other supply chains that integrate our values of environmental, social and economic sustainability.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, first of all, i would like to inform the house that we are joined in the gallery by francisco sucre, who is the chairman of the committee on foreign policy, sovereignty and integration of the venezuelan assembly and, therefore, the number two in the legitimate government of that country. also in the guest gallery is antonio ledezma, who is the metropolitan mayor of caracas. after hearing your speech on behalf of this parliament, i believe that this house has no choice but to decide to hold a debate today on the political situation in venezuela and to vote on a resolution.
member of the commission. – mr president, this is obviously a very important debate that we’re about to have. in our democracies political debate can sometimes be fierce – even very fierce – but resorting to violence or inciting hatred is never acceptable. politically motivated murders, physical or other acts of hatred are shocking and directly contrary to our very core european values. earlier on today, this house already paid tribute – and let me join that tribute – to a fighter for freedom and democracy, the mayor of gdańsk, mr paweł adamowicz. for 20 years, he stood for those values. he dedicated his life to the service of his city and wider society. while i’m speaking about this subject, i cannot but also recall the death of a member of the uk parliament, jo cox, who was a passionate defender of the rights of everyone in society, including new arrivals from abroad, and indeed of the european union. we need to recognise that that sometimes individuals can be drawn to acts of violence – radicalised, if you like – by conspiracy theories, polarised debates and more radical ideology. there can be no free and fair elections across europe if there is a climate of hatred and threats of violence against candidates and those holding democratically elected mandates. unfortunately, we’ve seen that even members of this parliament are not immune from violence and abuse because of the views that they express, and we must deplore that. earlier this year, commissioner jourová spoke at the inaugural meeting of the european cooperation network on elections. this network is a concrete step forward in implementing the commission’s election package from last autumn. the package recommended deeper cooperation within and between member states to jointly identify and counter threats to our democratic processes and protect the integrity of our elections. we’ve had several exchanges over the last year on threats to electoral processes, including at an event in april, ‘democratic participation on electoral matters’, a conference in october on ‘election interference in the digital age’ and in november, the colloquium on fundamental rights. at all of these exchanges one message comes through: one way a climate of hatred and threats of violence can be created is through disinformation and smear campaigns, often spread through the social media or accelerated through the social media. there have been coordinated disinformation campaigns which aimed to discredit and delegitimise elections around europe, sometimes conducted by third countries and sometimes by private interests from within our countries that do not have citizens and our democratic processes at heart. responding to this effectively is a challenge. these threats don’t respect borders or jurisdictions. they do not fit neatly into how we’ve dealt with regulating elections and political speech in the past. a group can misuse personal data to target online disinformation or to attempt to intimidate voters through threats. other aspects, such as the often widely diverging rules on donations and contributions, and the opportunity that the online environment creates to get round existing electoral rules make it even more of a challenge to deal with this. that’s why we need to collaborate together to ensure that we can bring together the resources and expertise needed to strengthen our readiness to respond to and to resist and mitigate this kind of challenge. within the framework of the european election cooperation network, we are discussing what works, such as good ways to reach out to citizens to build their awareness and to retain their trust. and media literacy, an effort that has been pursued in sweden, before their last election was a good example. we consider new ways to involve citizens in securing the democratic process itself, as latvia recently demonstrated, by inviting citizens to give examples of political ads which were thought to break national rules directly to the regulators. and we discuss how best to make use of existing tools, from data protection to financial supervision, and how best to close gaps which may have opened up as new technologies and their use and abuse have come into this electoral space. we will look to see where we can deploy european institutions’ – our institutions – influence and competences to support and help the member states’ efforts. in particular, this means working to ensure that the internet platforms, the big social media platforms, live up to the commitments that they have signed up to as part of our various codes of conduct and good practice, the code of conduct on hate speech and the code of practice against disinformation. as you may have seen, we presented the first of what will be a series of monthly reports on the progress the social media platforms are making in tackling disinformation yesterday. on the subject of hate speech, we need to keep in mind that hate speech is not free speech. it should be an unwritten duty of all democratically elected representatives to condemn hatred and to refrain from incitement to it. in accordance with the jurisprudence of the european court of human rights, states may sanction, or even prevent, all forms of expression which spread, incite, promote or justify hatred based on intolerance. in today’s society, online hate speech poses a societal threat, which not only affects the safety of immediate victims, but has a more general chilling effect on the freedom of expression and debate, not just online but in our societies. our core objective should be to ensure that authors of illegal hate speech are effectively prosecuted. we must ensure that all member states implement the framework decision on racism and xenophobia. the challenges that european electoral processes face are too complex to be solved by any one authority, member state or even private-sector service provider acting alone. indeed, no one should be left to act alone in this space or indeed to hold all the cards and make all the judgments. rather, a comprehensive approach is essential to ensure electoral security and legitimacy, while preserving an open democratic debate, a level playing field and the security of all those involved in our democratic processes. we must never lose sight that all our efforts need to be fully rooted in protecting and promoting the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights, in particular the freedoms of expression and association, which after all is what we are fighting to defend in our democratic processes and elections. thank you for putting this on the agenda. we look forward very much to hearing today’s debate and following up with you subsequently between now and the european parliamentary and other forthcoming elections.
i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter, but i am saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter. it is a climate of pre-fascist hatred that extends from france to hungary, from poland to slovakia, from italy to the spanish state, and which, as the commissioner says, has no political or international boundaries. the members eleonora forenza and judith sargentini, jean wyllys in brazil, the murdered jo cox and marielle franco, and many others know this well. we know this well, those of us who defend plurality from democratic political options and are attacked in the streets or on the media day after day in the exercise of our public office. we also know this in this european parliament, where at the last sitting a pp member of parliament said that the left wing of this house, that is, we, are political scum. the elected officials who have been insulted by macho, fascist, intolerant words, with degrading messages and who undervalue tolerance, also know this. so we cannot sit idly by while this happens and we must demand that our ideas be free. and we in this parliament must also have a huge responsibility. it is no longer empty statements that are needed, but actions to not be silenced by hate speech. it is one thing to allow freedom of expression, as the commissioner says, and another to allow in this house speeches inciting violence, as we hear so often in this european parliament, in that part of the house. and if you continue to allow these speeches, the result will be the same in the next european elections.
in writing. the violence engendered by nationalism-populism, which is on the rise across the eu, continues to claim victims. one group that is increasingly attacked is the democratically elected representatives. this is the case of pawel adamowicz, the mayor of the polish city of gdansk, who recently died from injuries sustained by a man who stabbed him during an event in front of hundreds of people. the assailant is a 27-year-old ex-con who killed him in front of a crowd attending a charity event. after stabbing adamowicz, the attacker took a microphone to assert that he was seeking revenge for being "unjustly imprisoned and tortured by (the party) citizen platform". in poland, as in so many other member states, threats and hate messages with fascist and nazi language are increasing. we are faced with a very worrying phenomenon which requires the strongest condemnation from this parliament. on the eve of the next european elections and in the midst of a climate poisoned by radical and extremist forces, the safety of public representatives should be a priority. by attacking us, you are undermining democracy itself. the eu must not allow this.
in writing. the violence engendered by nationalism-populism, which is on the rise across the eu, continues to claim victims. one group that is increasingly attacked is the democratically elected representatives. this is the case of pawel adamowicz, the mayor of the polish city of gdansk, who recently died from injuries sustained by a man who stabbed him during an event in front of hundreds of people. the assailant is a 27-year-old ex-con who killed him in front of a crowd attending a charity event. after stabbing adamowicz, the attacker took a microphone to assert that he was seeking revenge for being "unjustly imprisoned and tortured by (the party) citizen platform". in poland, as in so many other member states, threats and hate messages with fascist and nazi language are increasing. we are faced with a very worrying phenomenon which requires the strongest condemnation from this parliament. on the eve of the next european elections and in the midst of a climate poisoned by radical and extremist forces, the safety of public representatives should be a priority. by attacking us, you are undermining democracy itself. the eu must not allow this.
in writing. the violence engendered by nationalism-populism, which is on the rise across the eu, continues to claim victims. this time it is the democratically elected representatives. this is the case of pawel adamowicz, the mayor of the polish city of gdansk, who recently died from injuries caused by a man who stabbed him during an event in front of hundreds of people. the assailant is a 27-year-old ex-con who killed him in front of a crowd attending a charity event. after stabbing adamowicz, the attacker took a microphone to assert that he was seeking revenge for being "unjustly imprisoned and tortured by (the party) citizen platform". in poland, as in so many other member states, threats and hate messages with fascist language are increasing. we are faced with a very worrying phenomenon which requires the strongest condemnation from this parliament. on the eve of the next european elections and in the midst of a climate poisoned by radical and extremist forces, the safety of public representatives should be a priority. by attacking us, you are undermining democracy itself. the eu must not allow this.
in writing. the violence engendered by nationalism-populism, which is on the rise across the eu, continues to claim victims. one group that is increasingly attacked is the democratically elected representatives. this is the case of pawel adamowicz, the mayor of the polish city of gdansk, who recently died from injuries sustained by a man who stabbed him during an event in front of hundreds of people. the assailant is a 27-year-old ex-con who killed him in front of a crowd attending a charity event. after stabbing adamowicz, the attacker took a microphone to assert that he was seeking revenge for being "unjustly imprisoned and tortured by (the party) citizen platform". in poland, as in so many other member states, threats and hate messages with fascist and nazi language are increasing. we are faced with a very worrying phenomenon which requires the strongest condemnation from this parliament. on the eve of the next european elections and in the midst of a climate poisoned by radical and extremist forces, the safety of public representatives should be a priority. by attacking us, you are undermining democracy itself. the eu must not allow this.
in writing. the violence engendered by nationalism-populism, which is on the rise across the eu, continues to claim victims. one group that is increasingly attacked is the democratically elected representatives. this is the case of pawel adamowicz, the mayor of the polish city of gdansk, who recently died from injuries sustained by a man who stabbed him during an event in front of hundreds of people. the assailant is a 27-year-old ex-con who killed him in front of a crowd attending a charity event. after stabbing adamowicz, the attacker took a microphone to assert that he was seeking revenge for being "unjustly imprisoned and tortured by (the party) citizen platform". in poland, as in so many other member states, threats and hate messages with fascist and nazi language are increasing. we are faced with a very worrying phenomenon which requires the strongest condemnation from this parliament. on the eve of the next european elections and in the midst of a climate poisoned by radical and extremist forces, the safety of public representatives should be a priority. by attacking us, you are undermining democracy itself. the eu must not allow this.
in writing. the violence engendered by nationalism-populism, which is on the rise across the eu, continues to claim victims. one group that is increasingly attacked is the democratically elected representatives. this is the case of pawel adamowicz, the mayor of the polish city of gdansk, who recently died from injuries sustained by a man who stabbed him during an event in front of hundreds of people. the assailant is a 27-year-old ex-con who killed him in front of a crowd attending a charity event. after stabbing adamowicz, the attacker took a microphone to assert that he was seeking revenge for being "unjustly imprisoned and tortured by (the party) citizen platform". in poland, as in so many other member states, threats and hate messages with fascist and nazi language are increasing. we are faced with a very worrying phenomenon which requires the strongest condemnation from this parliament. on the eve of the next european elections and in the midst of a climate poisoned by radical and extremist forces, the safety of public representatives should be a priority. by attacking us, you are undermining democracy itself. the eu must not allow this.
in writing. the violence engendered by nationalism-populism, which is on the rise across the eu, continues to claim victims. one group that is increasingly attacked is the democratically elected representatives. this is the case of pawel adamowicz, the mayor of the polish city of gdansk, who recently died from injuries sustained by a man who stabbed him during an event in front of hundreds of people. the assailant is a 27-year-old ex-con who killed him in front of a crowd attending a charity event. after stabbing adamowicz, the attacker took a microphone to assert that he was seeking revenge for being "unjustly imprisoned and tortured by (the party) citizen platform". in poland, as in so many other member states, threats and hate messages with fascist and nazi language are increasing. we are faced with a very worrying phenomenon which requires the strongest condemnation from this parliament. on the eve of the next european elections and in the midst of a climate poisoned by radical and extremist forces, the safety of public representatives should be a priority. by attacking us, you are undermining democracy itself. the eu must not allow this.
in writing. the violence engendered by nationalism-populism, which is on the rise across the eu, continues to claim victims. one group that is increasingly attacked is the democratically elected representatives. this is the case of pawel adamowicz, the mayor of the polish city of gdansk, who recently died from injuries sustained by a man who stabbed him during an event in front of hundreds of people. the assailant is a 27-year-old ex-con who killed him in front of a crowd attending a charity event. after stabbing adamowicz, the attacker took a microphone to assert that he was seeking revenge for being "unjustly imprisoned and tortured by (the party) citizen platform". in poland, as in so many other member states, threats and hate messages with fascist and nazi language are increasing. we are faced with a very worrying phenomenon which requires the strongest condemnation from this parliament. on the eve of the next european elections and in the midst of a climate poisoned by radical and extremist forces, the safety of public representatives should be a priority. by attacking us, you are undermining democracy itself. the eu must not allow this.
mr president, mr timmermans, for the first time in history since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament has approved by a resounding two-thirds majority the initiative to activate nothing less than article 7 (1) in relation to hungary. because the drift described by the viktor orbán government can only be described as putinization, a concentration of power incompatible with the founding values of the european union. the commission has also been active in the fight against fraud, corruption and money laundering. the situation has only gotten worse. what i want, mr timermans, is that when the council discusses with the commission the consequences of that vote by no less than two thirds of the european parliament, the european parliament - which took the initiative in the first place - should be called upon to participate in that discussion, and that the three institutions should join their voices in saying that enough is enough with the putinization of the viktor orbán government in hungary.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, these are really critical moments for venezuela. the crisis unfortunately is worsening by the day and it risks destabilising the entire region. millions of people have already left the country and many more are fleeing in these very hours. it is urgent to find a peaceful and democratic way out of the crisis, a solution where the people of venezuela have the chance to determine their own future. free and fair elections are the only way out of this crisis. on 23 january, the people of venezuela called massively for democracy. regretfully, these demonstrations have been met with indiscriminate violence from the authorities, leading to numerous deaths and many more injured and arrested. in these days, the european union has made its voice constantly heard, with two statements by my dear colleague the high representative, on behalf of all 28 member states, and through regular contacts with our latin american and international partners. we have called for the urgent organisation of free, fair and credible elections to allow the restoration of democratic and constitutional order in the country. by free, fair and credible elections, we mean that all political forces should be able to participate without any obstacles. we mean that a national electoral council should be established with a balanced composition. we mean also that international observers should monitor the whole process – any aspect of this process. the presidential elections last may were neither free, fair nor credible. as a result, they lacked all democratic legitimacy. the country urgently needs a government that truly represents the will of the venezuelan people. in the event new presidential elections are not announced, we europeans will take further action, including on the issue of recognition of the country’s leadership. the european union fully supports the national assembly: right now, it is the only legitimate political body that has been democratically elected by the people of venezuela. the powers of the national assembly need to be restored in line with the constitution of venezuela. the prerogatives and safety of its members must also be respected, starting with its president, juan guaidó. his personal and political freedom must be guaranteed. the priority now is to prevent a military escalation and to create the conditions for a peaceful and democratic solution to the crisis. with this aim, our high representative is in constant contact with european capitals but also with our international and latin american partners, as i already said. yesterday, the high representative met with the foreign ministers of bolivia and ecuador. since last weekend, she has spoken with un secretary—general antónio guterres, and with the vatican’s secretary for relations with states, paul gallagher, with argentinian president mauricio macri, with us secretary of state mike pompeo, and with the foreign ministers of canada, chile, costa rica, cuba, mexico, peru and norway. with all of them, she discussed our proposal to create an international contact group. we believe it is important that regional and international actors work together to open up this space for a political process inside venezuela. it should be clear to everyone that military intervention would only make things worse. the solution to this crisis must come from the people of venezuela. at the same time, the conditions are not ripe yet for a dialogue between the different sides inside the country. so the contact group will not engage in a direct dialogue with the two venezuelan sides, but we believe that an international initiative can help build the conditions that will eventually lead to relaunching a political process inside venezuela, and to free and fair elections with all the necessary guarantees. we want to restart meaningful talks at the international level as an intermediate step and a precondition for talks inside venezuela. the preparations for the contact group are ongoing and the high representative will discuss this tomorrow with the 28 eu foreign ministers at gymnich. at the same time, the european union is maintaining its position as set out in the council conclusions of may last year, with restrictive measures on the top brass of the maduro regime. allow me a final word on our humanitarian work, because the situation inside venezuela, unfortunately, especially in the humanitarian field, is really deteriorating moment by moment, minute by minute. we remain committed to helping those in need in venezuela and the host communities that have welcomed the many venezuelans who have fled their country. in december, i remember, in strasbourg, i announced an additional eur 20 million in humanitarian assistance only. this brings total eu support for last year only to eur 55 million for the venezuelan people both inside venezuela and in host communities, and sometimes our humanitarian partners provided assistance really behind the scenes, in very dangerous ways. federica mogherini met in december with eduardo stein, the joint special envoy of the un agencies. we expressed our willingness to work closely with him to address these challenges and we very much support a regional response to the current crisis. we care about venezuela and its people. hundreds of thousands of venezuelans are also european citizens or have family in europe. we will do all in our power to prevent the first war in decades in latin america and to help the people of venezuela find a way out of this dramatic situation.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, on 23 january, the president of the national assembly, juan guaidó, complied with the provisions of the venezuelan constitution and assumed the presidency of the country on an interim basis. his mandate has a single and clear purpose: to lead venezuela towards free and democratic elections in the shortest possible time; nothing more and nothing less. since then, many states, including the most important latin american democracies, also the united states, australia, canada, israel, have recognized the interim presidency of guaidó. the question is: what is europe waiting for? all of europe is looking at us; all of venezuela is looking at us, and what do we do? how long, my colleagues? those who will be demonstrating in the streets of venezuela today are not europeans, it is true, but they are fighting for the same values that we are fighting for. they are not europeans, it is true, but they are fighting for a decent life like we have. they are not europeans, it is true, but they are fighting for peace and freedom as we are fighting for peace and freedom. they are not europeans, but they are fighting so that their children are not in maduro's prisons, but in schools and universities like ours. they are not europeans, it is true, but they are fighting so that the more than two and a half million venezuelan refugees or exiles can return to their country with dignity and with their heads held high, as we did after the war. they are not europeans, but they are fighting so that the deaths of so many thousands of innocent men and women in these 19 years, 11 months and 29 days of tyranny have not been in vain. they are not europeans, but they are europeans, because we are also venezuelans, because, when it comes to freedom, democracy, equality, dignity in the world, there are no borders. we ourselves would not be able to call ourselves europeans, we would not have the right to call ourselves europeans, if we did not act today as if we were venezuelans. when it comes to defending human rights, freedom and democracy, europe cannot be neutral or equidistant. europe is not just a place. europe is also an ideal. europe is an aspiration. how many violent deaths, how many sick people who die from lack of medicine, how many pregnant women who are malnourished, how many elderly people, how many helpless children will die from lack of food? how much longer does it have to be in venezuela before we understand what's going on there? that is why we ask this house, this parliament, for three things. first: we recognize the national assembly and interim president juan guaidó as the only legitimate powers of venezuela. second: we demand that the venezuelan armed forces guarantee a peaceful transition of power with loyalty to the constitution and the venezuelan people. and thirdly, let us put at the disposal of the new authorities a first package of urgent aid to alleviate the humanitarian crisis in venezuela. if maduro is a tyrant, we can't give him a deadline to call elections. if maduro is a tyrant, we cannot ask him to dialogue. if maduro is a tyrant, we can't expect him to rectify, because to expect a tyrant to rectify is to give the tyrant a chance. tyrants do not call for elections. tyrants do not speak. tyrants do not rectify. they're tyrants, not wildflowers. tyrants are dangerous and tyrants can only be dealt with with a head held high and with principles by the flag, with severity. so today, although we are europeans, let's make venezuelan history. let us recognize the democratic and legitimate power of venezuela; let us be the first european institution to recognize venezuelan democracy as the european parliament. let's help change the regime in venezuela from europe. tyrants will never give birth to any democratic possibility.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i think we can all agree that venezuela has unfortunately been suffering for many years now from a very serious political and democratic crisis, a very serious economic and social crisis and, of course, a humanitarian crisis, which has ended all that we have said. the international community did not recognize the elections of may last year and, therefore, has not recognized mr. maduro as president of venezuela as of january 10. mr guaidó, president of the national assembly, has declared himself president of venezuela and we have a country in a situation of enormous crisis and volatility. i shall start by defending europe, mr gonzalez pons. i think that europe has established a reasonable criterion, which is to establish a preferential agreement between the government and the opposition, between the government which has, say, the electoral apparatus and the new president declared in accordance with the constitution, who has 30 days to call elections. an agreement that allows the elections to be held with guarantees. and he has set a deadline and has told mr maduro: if you do not fulfill this purpose, i will recognize mr guaidó, and he is doing so. and, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, with the agreement we have reached with the political groups, this house will do so. and the member states of the european union will do so in the coming days. yes, they will. and this is the consequence of the fact that a reasonable development of the situation from the legitimate point of view has not been possible. our agreement - which we are going to vote on tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, all the political groups - also includes the rejection of any kind of intervention that could be carried out from a violent or armed point of view, and i think it is important to emphasize this because we must reject and condemn any attempt or proposal that involves violence - military escalation, the commissioner said - or the use of weapons for a supposed solution to the venezuelan crisis. but our group also believes that the contact group which the european union is setting up must be given enormous support. because this is politics, ladies and gentlemen, and the european union wants to play a role, not exactly like that of the united states - which is theirs, i am not discussing it now - but ours is the role of facilitator, of mediator, of controller, of ensuring that the democratic process and the electoral solution are the only peaceful and democratic solution to the venezuelan crisis. in any of the scenarios, in any of the ones that come - whether elections are called by maduro; whether they are called by guaidó, or whether they are not called by anyone - the european union, with its contact group in the key countries in the region, has to continue to establish a peaceful and democratic exit from venezuela, ladies and gentlemen. it is the proposal of the european union. of course we're going to say that guaidó is president, yes. are we going to recognize him? i'm not sure. are we going to help the people of venezuela and their opposition? yes, as we have always done, but with the political hand to act on the political stage. we have been declaring for a long time - socialists in particular - that socialism is freedom and that there can be no left against democracy. i want to reiterate it again here and i want to say it loudly against mr maduro, and that is why i want to reiterate an agreement that we have reached among the political groups to establish this balance between our proposals, so that there will continue to be important political action by the european union, to give a democratic and peaceful - i repeat, peaceful - way out of venezuela, based on the political action that we europeans can take.
on behalf of the alde group. mr. president, venezuela is the abyss. it is the social, economic, institutional and national chasm. hundreds of dead, thousands of prisoners and tortured and over three million exiles. i remember a phrase by lenin - i say this for those who follow him - who said that exile is a referendum in which you vote with your feet. three million votes for that referendum, according to lenin, which i agree with as a reference. i'm going to. maduro is the de facto power based on fraudulent elections and is based only on the power of brute force, the capacity for repression, supported by the cuban intelligence system. it is the antithesis of freedom, the antithesis of revolution and the antithesis of an idea which to me is noble and which is called socialism. the legitimate president of venezuela, the constitutional president, is juan guaidó. all you have to do is read article 233 of the constitution: president maduro ceased to be president when he called elections, they expired and were perfectly fraudulent. so to ask a president who is not a president to act as president and, in the light of that supposed presidency, to call elections is not only surrealism worthy of salvador dalí: it is simply marxism, but in the version of groucho marx. because during that whole period there have been over a thousand more prisoners, in the days that have passed since the elections were asked to who cannot call them. so, after all the mediation has failed, all that remains is a clear and decisive action by this parliament, which is what we are going to vote on tomorrow. and we are going to vote the recognition of the legitimate president of venezuela, which is juan guaidó. we are going to vote for the maintenance of the recognition of the only assembly, the only true popular power, elected in a democratic way, which is the national assembly of venezuela. we will also call for the condemnation of maduro's liberticidal regime and demand a full investigation into the crimes committed by the tyrant. so, something that is very simple and very dramatic: it's called dignity, democracy, human rights. it's called freedom. and so, from the bottom of my soul to the brotherly venezuelan people what i have to say to them is: long live free venezuela!
mr. president, under the leadership of xi jinping, the chinese government has been increasing pressure on taiwan on all fronts, undermining the status quo of the formosa strait and endangering the peace and stability of the region. for years the intimidation pressures have ranged from blocking taiwan's participation as an observer in international organizations to intensifying military intimidation, sending troops and sending frigates, and aircraft carriers and planes, to the taiwan strait to patrol along the strait. not to mention that china reserves the use of force for reunification. but taiwan is a democracy. look at what president tsai says: a liberal democratic order can only survive if like-minded countries, including our european partners, work together for the greater good. the european union must therefore be more committed to supporting democracy in taiwan.
mr president, the fact that the chinese president, xi jinping, when delivering a speech on china—taiwan relations, refuses to rule out the use of force and reserves the option of taking all necessary measures to push the ‘one china’ principle must be a matter of concern to all of us. since there is so much at stake in settling their political disputes, the two sides should take a pragmatic approach. we from the eu should encourage the resumption of official dialogues between beijing and taipei. all cross—strait disputes have to be settled by peaceful means and on the basis of international law and the principle of equality. at the same time, i strongly believe that the commitment of the taiwanese people to freedom and democracy and towards the democratic system that they have tenaciously built together must be respected and taken into account.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done to reach a broad consensus. in the course of the negotiations we have argued for the need to think of this tool beyond its economic dimension and to see it in a context where the symbolic aspects take on great relevance and significance. this means ensuring that the use of the funds is appropriate and respectful of human rights and what we consider to be the shared values of the union. it means opening up the use, so that the public can benefit from this domain, in addition to the public institutions. it also means, in our view, ensuring that the public regulator guarantees a fair and balanced use of the domain in its different dimensions. it also means ensuring that private intervention in the management of the domain is subject to appropriate controls, safeguarding the public dimension of this domain. as we see, despite its obvious technical dimension, this debate will also include other aspects which are more clearly political.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work and on the sensitivity he has shown in incorporating aspects relevant to our political group. we are aware of the political limitations of going further in some content, but we regret some significant omissions. we support public intervention in the form of aid as an instrument which should be put at the service of the majority and should not be seen as a problem but as a solution. unfortunately, competition policy does not do this. it is therefore paradoxical that public aid should be given to the financial sector, which is primarily responsible for the crisis, and yet seems to fall outside the scope of competition policy, especially when this aid to the banks has served as an excuse for cuts in the public sector. another element is that, although the right wing wants to continue looking the other way, energy poverty is the consequence of a policy dictated by the economic interests of the multinationals in the sector. these are the aspects which unfortunately do not allow us to vote in favour of this report.
madam president, i congratulate you all for this report. it is a good parliament contribution to the commission, identifying the key important or hot issues on the table. let me start by saying that i welcome commissioner vestager’s work and concerns raised regarding the siemens-alstom merger. she has and is facing very strong political pressure, but, as always, confirms that she stands firm. as i raised in the past, i feel that negative consequences for high-speed rolling stock and signalling systems could arise if this merger was to be authorised. regarding authorisations misused by big tech firms, i am very proud that many of my amendments are included in the final compromises. i also welcome that, once again, this report calls on the commission to organise a hearing with tech companies, the ceos of google and facebook. let me conclude by saying that regarding the several google anti-trust cases, this report invites the commission to consider the possibility of setting deadlines for anti-trust cases, as it does in merger cases.
madam president, at the beginning of this term i told commissioner vestager that the logic of the market and competition should not affect such important sectors as social services. and i was doing it in reference to the problems that the king aurelio centre for persons with disabilities, in el entrego, in asturias, was having to be able to maintain a service provided by the association of relatives and friends of the people who receive support in that centre. finally, thanks to the efforts of the principality of asturias, the association, the city council and all the asturian social agents, it has been possible for this association of relatives to maintain the provision of services to the relatives who are, as i said before, receiving services in that centre. but it is a constant threat to introduce this market logic into social services which must be exempt from the logic of the market. my support for the association of family and friends and my wish that this centre will continue to maintain this public provision of a third sector and recognized by all.
in writing. concentration of enterprises in the agrochemical sector is a problem that deserves the full attention of the european union. we are not dealing with a sector governed by the criteria of free competition, but with a wide value chain controlled by large business groups which neither pursue the interests of small producers nor guarantee the rights of european consumers. competition is always necessary, and i support the work of the directorate-general for competition to ensure that european and third country companies participate in the single market on the same terms, prohibiting any agreement or abusive conduct that undermines the freedom of access and trade in goods and services. we cannot therefore accept that, as in the agrochemical sector, the breeders of genetically modified seeds also own the active substances used in them, which are required by the condition of acquired genetic resistance. an oligopoly of this nature is not market leadership; it is the negation of the market itself. the commission should look after the public interest and dismantle, on the basis of european union law, a business structure which, moreover, does not take account of the environmental cost.
i would like to thank mr marinescu for his report and i welcome the presence of both commissioner oettinger and the director-general of olaf, mr itälä. since 27 january, the spanish central bank has stopped issuing 500 euro notes. this measure, which may seem attractive, is also a measure to combat fraud, although unfortunately there are still some countries where it is resisted. i welcome the fact that this report for 2017 also shows that, thanks to the work of everyone - olaf and all the systems, both at national and european level - the number of fraud cases has been reduced by more than 20% compared to 2016. we have also managed to save a very significant amount of millions of euros; however, in the case of the vat gap we still have a lot of work to do. i should also note that my country, spain, is noted for being still above average in 2017 - almost twice the average - in terms of fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities, but the truth is that there are still elements of improvement and the objective of the current government is precisely the direct fight against fraud. i am also glad that in the agricultural field - where farmers are so often denigrated - we have succeeded in reducing the complaints and the fraudulent situation by almost more than half in the field of rural development, but we have again problems with direct support, so i hope that mr hogan and the new cap reform will take these problems into account as well. we particularly welcome the efforts being made to bring the olaf regulation into line with the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office, which we believe has a prominent role in the fight against fraud. we also believe that it is important to strengthen the customs situation and we also agree with mr zdechovský - although i am not referring to france, but to the system in general - on the need to continue to combat the illicit trade in tobacco products, which is causing losses of 10 000 million euros. and finally, the protection of whistleblowers.
madam president, commissioner oettinger, it is impossible to overstate the importance of this annual debate we are having on fraud against the financial interests of the union. and this european parliament has done all it can: it has legislated on criminal matters 'the criminal directive on the protection of the financial interests of the union, which creates not only criminal penalties binding on the member states, but also minimum sanctions, penalties', but above all we have given the impetus to the european public prosecutor's office, which will complement the architecture of the prosecution of fraud. and the fact that fraud seems to be decreasing by up to 20% and the amounts defrauded cannot have anything to do with the fact that detection or investigation is failing. because the european public prosecutor's office is still six states away. some of them have historically been characterised by their opt-out of european criminal law and the area of freedom, security and justice. but there are two that stand out for having the highest levels of fraud and corruption in the management of european funds. it is therefore important that we complement the european public prosecutor's office with the olaf regulation the european anti-fraud office regulation, still pending from the romanian presidency. we want it to be completed so that its investigations are relevant and complementary to those of the member states and its evidence can be used as evidence in criminal proceedings in the member states.
mr president, commissioner jourová, how right this european parliament is to take care to combat all the odious forms of discrimination against vulnerable minorities. we saw it this morning at the holocaust memorial. there was also a roma holocaust, as we were passionately reminded here by the memorable member of the european roma community who was a member of the european parliament, juan de dios ramírez heredia, and, tonight, by lívia jároka and soraya post, among other distinguished roma in the european community, who continue to suffer discrimination in terms of access to housing, employment, education or health. and those national strategies have to be evaluated not just up to 2020 but afterwards and permanently. but it is important that all european funds - the integration funds, the cohesion fund, the structural funds and also the erasmus programme itself - have a chapter on the integration of this vulnerable community which continues to suffer discrimination in the member states of the european union. that is why, commissioner jourová, you have the full support of the members of the european parliament who are committed to combating all forms of discrimination.
mr president, article 14 of our charter of fundamental rights of the european union proclaims the right to private property. and that's what i wanted to talk to you about. in spain, in the balearic islands, a left-wing government has just published and approved a law on public roads and hiking trails which affects mallorca and menorca and involves an indiscriminate conversion of private rural roads into public roads, giving the administration unchecked power. it is a violation of the right to private property, an intolerable attack and at the same time an infringement of the right to privacy. it also affects all agricultural, livestock and forestry activities. i therefore want to call on the balearic authorities to return to the path of sanity, to the path of european values and to protect this right to property, this right to privacy and, therefore, to return to the path that marks europe, which is none other than that of law and the rule of law.
mr president, commissioner, europe is a territory free of the death penalty, an inhuman and cruel punishment which degrades those who apply it. that is why the union has drawn up a strategy to eradicate it from all countries, and one of its components is to take an interest in, and intervene if necessary, in all cases where european citizens are convicted. and especially if the evidence on which the conviction is based is inconclusive. this is the case of pablo ibar. a european citizen who has just been found guilty of a triple murder committed 25 years ago. calling evidence the faint clues that do not allow or place it in the place of the facts seems a joke. read the account of one of the jurors, who has just recanted his decision, explaining the prejudices and pressures that may have led to the conviction. we therefore call for swift and decisive european intervention, because we have time to turn the horror film in which pablo ibar has lived for two decades into a film with a just and therefore happy ending. that's why, commissioner, i'm asking you to do everything in your power to take care of this case.
mr president, our decisions as political representatives have direct consequences for citizens, sometimes serious consequences, sometimes very serious consequences, as in the case of the alvia train accident near santiago de compostela in galicia in july 2013, which left 80 dead and 140 injured. in order to clarify the causes of these accidents, we have always been at the side of the victims in their search for truth and justice, and we have worked tirelessly over the years, with constant meetings with the commissioner for transport and in constant contact with the european railway agency. and so firm has been our presence with the victims that the european commission last week opened an infringement procedure against the spanish state for failure to comply with european railway safety legislation. because the spanish people's party and the socialist party cannot be allowed to continue to keep a complicit silence in order to conceal the true causes of the accident, because those who made the wrong decisions cannot go unpunished and because the fault was not only that of the driver. truth and justice for the victims of europe's worst accident in 25 years!
the lack of representation of women in the various spheres of social, political and economic life is a symptom of an unequal society, a symptom of the need to make progress in policies for equality between men and women. it was in 2013 that this parliament took a position on the european commission's proposal on the representation of women on boards of directors to introduce mandatory quotas for women's representation in business areas, so that we also have equal representation in the economic sphere. it's been five years. they have gone through presidency after presidency with a deadlock in the council, where national governments have been unable to sit down at the table and understand that to move towards a more equal europe is also to move towards a europe where women's representation is a reality in all spheres. and there had to be a change in the spanish government to also push for a change in the council and try to get an agreement on this at last. i would like to thank mrs jourová for the impetus which i know she is giving, from the commission and together with the council and parliament, to enable us to end this parliamentary term with a fundamental initiative on equality. because we cannot resign ourselves to women's rights going backwards. because we need women to be represented on equal opportunities and that is why this parliament must take a very clear position and ask the romanian presidency to make a last effort, that we have the possibility, that we have the capacity, that there are governments, like the one in spain, which have decided to promote this initiative, that women want to be part of decision-making and that it is fundamental to move forward in a more equal and fairer europe.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner jourová, thank you very much for all the efforts and commitment you have put into these initiatives, but in view of the content of these questions, in view of the way in which this proposal to promote equality in boards of directors is blocked in the council, i would like to ask three things of european governments: coherence, foresight and courage. consistency, because here we are full of talk about smart growth, about a talent-based economy, but we do our best to ensure that half of the available talent, which we women contribute, does not reach where it can be most useful. to the councils. to the decision centers. where, as all the studies show, it's more profitable. it is a success, as all the experiences in some member states have shown. dare to look at this proposal from the perspective of cost-effectiveness. because they are afraid to do so from the perspective of equality, justice and equal opportunity. future vision, because europe is one of the most sensitive and active areas in the world in terms of equality policies. let's take advantage of this competitive advantage. while other spaces are starting to think about ideas that we have been tinkering with for years, let's bet on taking them to their final consequences. because, as we have said, in addition to being fair and democratic, it is cost-effective. any advantage we take away from others in this talent-adding operation will make us more competitive. and finally, courage. there are too many men thinking masculine at the head of this blockade. shake off the fear. they'll win. accept what you're missing: reconciling, caring for children, caring for the elderly, sharing the magical task of turning a mortgage into a home, into an opportunity. you'll find that enjoying this part of life will make you happier. it'll help train their emotional intelligence. it will connect them to feelings, to experiences, to people, to problems, to responsibilities, that they've been running away from for centuries. i am convinced that a world with men willing to take on this challenge will be a much better one.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, it is very important that we try to unblock this directive. we are coming from a rather stagnant mandate on gender equality, and it would be great if between the commission and the romanian presidency we could come to the end of the mandate with good prospects for this directive, which has been blocked since it was presented in 2012. the establishment of a 40% quota for women on the boards of directors is essential. it's essential because economic power is central to gender equality, and also because it's a model that has worked. in norway it has worked indisputably. it has not solved everything, but in listed companies today there are 40 percent women. and it is not a matter that can be hidden behind subsidiarity, as many member states do. for two reasons: first, because gender equality is a goal set out in the treaties and economic power is a central element in advancing equality. and secondly, because the disparity in the european union is from 7.4% in some countries to 43% of women on boards. the disparity is enormous, and we therefore need a legal framework at european union level to harmonize and promote this measure. as i said, in norway this has been a measure which is absolutely successful. that is beyond question. it hasn't solved everything. and we must learn, too. there are two central issues. first, it is one thing to establish equality in the boards of directors and another to achieve it in executive positions. and there is work to be done, too, because one of these measures does not solve the second part, which also needs to be worked on. and secondly, what we have learned from the norwegian experience is that there are implementation challenges, obviously, and that is why in 2013 parliament called for a very important sanctions regime for those companies that did not meet that target, for example by excluding them from public tenders if they did not meet the 40% that the directive set. so it's a central piece of legislation to advance equality. i would hope that both the commission and the council would try to give us good news in the coming months, because i think that in this house there is unanimous support for this text.
mr president, thank you, mrs jourová, always for your support, for your strength and for your determination. today, some still say that women do not occupy leadership positions because they choose not to. and yet, the proportion of women on the boards of listed european companies has risen from 10% in 2005 to 22% in 2015. then something moves. others say that if things are already changing, an initiative like the proposal on women on boards would be unnecessary. however, women only chair 7% of the boards of directors and only 6% of the ceos of the largest companies. the glass ceiling exists. there is such a thing as sticky soil. and from the european union we can help to break one and clean up another. but to do that, the council must stop blocking the proposal on women on boards. equality in management positions is good for everyone. companies with more women on the board of directors do better. the rational, the effective, the principled pragmatic is equality. it is time for the council to unblock the proposal on women on boards and take the lead that europeans are asking for. and i expect romania to take a good position on this.
mr president, gender equality for the council is secondary, just look at a picture of the european council. women on boards of directors, for example in spain, occupy only 22% of the positions in publicly traded companies. in sweden alone, it is 36%, but in general it is far from the levels reported in europe. in the last parliament, as a member of the committee on gender equality, we discussed this issue and it is sad to see that, seven years later, we are again here on an issue that is the pure image of the non-compliance with the equality directives.
mr president, today we are again discussing the future of the european union. and i think that in that future there are two revolutions that are going to shape our lives: the technological or digital revolution and the energy revolution. the european union must therefore meet these challenges. to the challenge of the energy revolution that will shape our lives, our way of traveling, our way of consuming, etc. by being ambitious in the fight against climate change, which is the great challenge facing humanity. this legislature has taken very important steps to put europe at the forefront of this energy transition. as a leader in achieving decarbonization and achieving climate goals. but we cannot let our guard down, because the challenge is so great and the response must be constant.
mr president, i would like to thank prime minister sipilä for being here and making the case for finland as a happy country after 25 years in the european union and making up one percent of the total population of the european union. you got started talking about history, prime minister, and i would like to quote one of the founding fathers, a former prime minister of belgium, paul-henri charles spaak. he once said it’s not true that the european union is a blend between big and small states: we are all small in relation to the challenges of the world to come. it is just that some countries know this, and other countries don’t know it yet. you spoke of a challenge, namely defence and security, and that is meaningful in view of finland’s neutral past, but you said less about migration. i urge you to overcome the temptation of populism, and to gather up the forces necessary to unblock the dublin regulation, as this has been the mandate of the european union. it takes a common policy and solidarity when it comes to migration, and no country can turn a blind eye to those in need who are knocking on the union’s doors.
madam president, i would like to raise a point of compliance based on rule 22 of this parliament's rules of procedure: 'the president shall direct, in accordance with these rules of procedure, all the activities of parliament and its bodies. the intervention yesterday by mr tajani, stating that he had spoken to the self-styled president guaidó to assure him of the support of the european parliament by proceeding to a debate and a vote, is contrary to the rules of procedure of this house, and i want an official reply.
mr president, since we drafted the joint resolution until now, ronaldo rodríguez, josé salas, baptiste des monstiers, pierre caillé, gonzalo domínguez, leonardo muñoz and maurén barriga have been arrested in venezuela. all of them are journalists working for two european media outlets and they were doing their job. according to the information that the president of the efe agency has just given in spain, they are now in the dungeons of the secret service. we are all in favour of freedom of expression, and we are all in favour of the media being able to report freely, because we all believe that freedom of information is the very life of democracy. that is why, in agreement with the other proponents of the joint resolution, we are asking for a new paragraph to be added after paragraph 4. a 4a paragraph, which would read: condemns the detention of several journalists covering the situation in venezuela and calls for their immediate release. (parliament adopted the oral amendment)
madam president, i am pleased with the outcome of this report because i was opposed to the limitation that was intended to be imposed on the constitution of parliamentary groups, because it seems to me that technically it was very badly done and that politically it was a restriction of rights and freedoms that i cannot support in any way. i think that technically it is a bad proposal because the concepts that were handled were totally arbitrary and both the definition of what the ideological coherence of the groups means and the ideas that were handled to measure it did not support the slightest analysis. i would remind you that some of the proposals, if applied to any of the groups already existing in this house, would lead immediately to their dissolution, and others simply punish the principle of freedom of vote and conscience which we all have as members of parliament. so i would not like to be in the role of someone who has to really explain a rule that allows this level of arbitrariness, and i would not like that because i am a democrat and i believe in the rule of law. and those who aren't, they love these tools because they allow for that arbitrariness. when such vague concepts are used in law, freedoms are always used to attack democracy.
madam president, eight resolutions have already been adopted by this parliament on the situation in venezuela. and eight are the resolutions that have contributed nothing to solve the crisis in venezuela. by recognizing the self-proclaimed guaidó, you are validating a coup d'état that, to the disgrace of the venezuelan people, has the inevitable appearance of ending in a military intervention or civil war. today, instead of making its own mark, calling for dialogue and peace, as the un secretary-general has done, the european union has decided to become trump's servant by supporting his insane policy of interventionism and joining an imprudent bilateral recognition that only adds fuel to the fire. and it is curious that guaidó himself has promised to call elections within six to twelve months, when the constitution of venezuela would oblige him to do so within a maximum of thirty days. he's not even president yet and he already wants to violate the constitution of his country. the eu must be an instrument for peace and dialogue, not for fuelling wars.
madam president, i voted against the resolution on the situation in venezuela because, unfortunately, we are again faced with a european union which is brazenly crossing the red line of respect for international law. today, the european union is once again subordinated to the united states and takes the side of the war bloc with trump, duque and bolsonaro, who encourage a glorious coup and military intervention. they try to justify their position by appealing to the defence of human rights, with a show of cynicism. the same ones who are violated in morocco, israel and saudi arabia with their consent. let's be clear: their only interest is oil. you don't care about getting blood on your hands from oil. if you care about the venezuelan people, you should lift the sanctions and the blockade. today the european union is again losing its legitimacy. they would do better to be on the side of constructive dialogue and peace, and therefore respect for international law, and on the side of the united nations security council.
the european union is committed to the peace process and to the peace process in the region. i'm sure you do. because it is a resolution that recognizes juan guaidó, the coup leader, as president. and it does so because, as we all know, the european union is very concerned about human rights and that is why it funds torture centers for migrants in libya, builds concertina fences or prevents ngo boats from going out to sea to rescue people. she's very concerned about human rights, of course, but in venezuela. another argument for recognising the coup plotter is the european union's strong appreciation of democracy. and that is why the european union has a preferential economic agreement with a model as democratic as the absolute monarchy of saudi arabia. the european parliament feels that it has to support a person who has proclaimed himself president, so without elections or anything, because maduro is a tyrant who kills the people with hunger. unlike the president of sudan, with whom the european union has signed several agreements in recent months, who has only two search and arrest warrants from the international criminal court for crimes against humanity. the european parliament is also appalled that, according to its own figures, two million venezuelans are in exile. in contrast, israel is practically another member of the european union because there are only five million palestinians in exile. i think it is very clear that support for the coup in venezuela has nothing to do with oil, or with the european union's following the united states, or even less with venezuela having a government that does not follow its neoliberal dictates.
mr president, a delegation from this parliament visited nicaragua two weeks ago. we visited the prisons where political prisoners are suffering horrible mistreatment. there's a horrible breakdown of democratic freedoms in that country. and although president ortega promised the european parliament delegation that he would do something to soften the situation of the breakdown of democracy and human rights in that country, nothing is happening. on the contrary, everything is getting worse. mr president, i am writing to you on behalf of the european parliament delegation that visited nicaragua, asking you to address a letter to the president of that country demanding respect for freedom and respect for human dignity in prisons.
mr president, i asked for the floor, although my colleague mr jauregui has already said so. fifteen days ago we were in nicaragua and at that time we visited a prison. we visited la esperanza, a prison of political prisoners who spoke to us and told us about the injustice of their cause and the physical and moral abuse they were receiving. we demand that there should be no reprisals against these women who had dared to report what was happening. we ask the prison authorities, the vice minister and president ortega himself. he assured us there would be no reprisals of any kind. last friday we were informed that ten prisoners in one of the cells where we were were were being mistreated, badly beaten and that they are also being prevented from receiving visits from their families. i believe that the european union cannot look the other way, neither parliament - which does not - nor the vice-president herself. and we have to act immediately. in nicaragua, i am convinced that terror reigns, there is no freedom for journalists, prisoners are beaten, students are killed. i think we can't look the other way.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are having this afternoon concerns the regulation on the eu's anti-fraud programme, and it is a regulation which has two purposes. firstly, to protect the financial interests of the european union and, secondly, to promote cooperation and administrative assistance between member states, and between member states and the commission, in the field of customs enforcement and in the field of control and enforcement of agricultural rules. this programme is part of the continuity of the hercules iii programme and its financial amount has been adjusted - i hope the commission can be satisfied - to the framework of the current financial perspective. in this sense, the programme incorporates two fundamental systems. one system refers to the anti-fraud information mechanisms, which summarise the commission's enforcement in the customs field, and the other to the administrative complaint correction mechanism, through which the commission provides assistance to third countries. it is important to note that this regulation will enter into force on 1 january 2021 and will not imply an overlap with other european union programmes and, in particular, with other programmes in the field of the fight against fraud. i am referring to the olaf regulation, i am referring to the regulation establishing the european public prosecutor's office and i am also referring to the directive in the field of the fight against fraud. it is important to stress that the regulation determines the practical cases in which the 'scope of application' will be applied in order to avoid these duplications and, at the same time, that the co-financing margin will be a margin of 80%, except in duly justified cases where there are genuine financial interests of the european union that may be affected, in which case the margin may be increased up to 90%. i would like to say, mr president, that in addition to these two objectives, the report we are presenting and the draft regulation have three other specific objectives, namely to prevent and combat fraud, corruption and any other illegal activity affecting the financial interests of the european union, to support the reporting of irregularities, including fraud, in respect of the shared management funds and the pre-accession assistance funds of the european union budget, and to provide tools for the exchange of information and support for operational activities in the field of mutual administrative assistance. and, furthermore, with this programme, parliament considers that it would be very useful if those entities from countries which are linked to the union by association agreements could participate in this area of customs cooperation. we have introduced a number of aspects relating to the evaluation, monitoring and control of the anti-fraud programme. we have planned to include a description of the actions to be financed under this programme, an indication of the amount allocated, the maximum rate of co-financing of grants and, in some way, also the obligation to introduce, as already provided for in the draft regulation, a report drawn up for the european parliament and the council, and a final evaluation at the end of the three years. with these initiatives, mr president, we have sought to respond in some way to some of the concerns raised by the court of auditors in this area. i should like to conclude by thanking the rapporteur and the staff of the house for their work on this report.
i would also like to thank mr salafranca, with whom we have worked very well, for his report and also for the fact that it has clarified some of the aspects which we consider to be fundamental from the point of view of budgetary control. because, while we understand the commission's request or proposal for greater flexibility, i would like to ask commissioner vella how the commission sees the current proposal, as put forward by mr salafranca, as creating problems for the future european public prosecutor's office. we believe that it is essential to have an annual performance report, even though the programme is small, because we believe that there should be no overlap in the actions of such a programme, that there should be no conflict of interest and that they should certainly serve to complement and reinforce other programmes of the same type to combat fraud. and finally, we are also in favour of doubling the budget for the programme, but we need you to explain to us why you think, mr vella, that there may be problems with the european public prosecutor's office.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for sharing their views on this important topic. they are clear evidence of the continued support of the parliament for the fight against fraud and the protection of the eu’s financial interests. with regard to overlaps with other eu programmes, this programme is the only one specifically supporting the fight against fraud to the eu budget and, as such, does not overlap with the scope of any other programmes such as in the areas of justice and home affairs and customs. in addition, the periodical preparation of the work programmes, through appropriate inter—service consultations, will provide ample opportunity to explore synergies and detect possible overlaps. furthermore, the anti-fraud programme pursues a different objective from the customs control equipment instrument. the anti-fraud programme specifically aims at the protection of the eu financial interests and therefore covers not only the revenue side, but also the expenditure side through a range of activities, of which financing the acquisition of equipment is only one aspect. the commission will ensure that there is no duplication between the programmes during the implementation phase, in particular when establishing the work programmes, which will be done in close consultation with the other commission services concerned. as regards co—financing rates, the financial regulation no longer requires that co—financing rates are defined in the basic acts. therefore, the proposal does not fix such rates, in order to provide the programme with the maximum flexibility. this is a horizontal issue across proposals. all your remarks and the amendments that you decide to put forward in the vote tomorrow will be carefully considered for discussion during the next phase of the procedure. some of them touch cross-cutting issues common to all proposals for spending programmes and will be part of the general negotiations for the next mff. the commission remains fully committed to ensuring that the eu anti-fraud strategy is supported by a modern and flexible financial instrument capable of facing, promptly and effectively, the challenges of future years. in this vein, we look forward to supporting the negotiations between parliament and the council with a constructive and cooperative spirit.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank the members who took part in the debate for their contributions and for their support for the report we are debating today and voting on tomorrow, and also the commission. i would like to say that i welcome the agreement on the objectives of the fight against fraud. i think this is something that the citizens will take very seriously, because in these times, particularly in times of crisis, anything that affects corruption is an element that affects - as has been said in this debate - the credibility of the european construction project. i welcome the agreement on the objectives with the commission, i welcome the fact that they are satisfied with the increase we are proposing in the amounts allocated to this important programme and i understand that the existence of this legal basis will indeed facilitate this common and shared struggle. i think you have made it clear, commissioner, and rightly so, that we are at the beginning of a procedure and we understand the commission's wish for flexibility. i can assure you that, as rapporteur, i have a positive and constructive attitude, because i also understand that it is precisely with this harmonious tandem 'parliament and commission' that matters in the european union are moving forward, but i also have to tell you that, as representatives of the citizens, we will be very attentive to the prerogatives and rights that assist parliament, especially in the setting of priorities by the committee on budgetary control in the annual evaluation mechanism of the protection of the financial interests of the european union, being respected. and so i offer you this attitude now, knowing that, many times, the fact that the european parliament controls the development of these programmes and the taxpayers' money can be tiresome or can generate additional work, but we understand that it is important for the citizens of the european union to know that their institutions put in place all the necessary means to fight fraud and corruption and all those elements that do not meet the expectations of our citizens.
member of the commission. – mr president, i will start by warmly thanking the rapporteur, mr alain cadec, the shadow rapporteurs and all those who were involved, for their excellent work and efforts to bring this very important file to a successful conclusion. the agreement which was reached between the co-legislators is a very good result and i want to thank you, alain, for working tirelessly to ensure a solid and sustainable result that can work in practice. i also want to thank you for ensuring a timely adoption, as you mentioned, ahead of the uk withdrawal from the european union. the baltic sea and the north sea plans are the blueprints for the western waters plan but, where it was necessary to reflect regional specificities, the co-legislators wisely agreed to find new approaches by addressing, for example, issues linked to recreational fisheries. the western waters plan completes the set of multiannual plans on the atlantic side of the union’s waters. it continues on the path of regionalisation, allowing member states to submit joint recommendations, for example on discard plans, to implement the landing obligations. with this new plan we ensure that fishermen have the necessary tools for sustainable fishing practices, for example, by adapting their gear to fish more selectively. it is now for the stakeholders of the western waters to put these tools into practice and to ensure tailor-made solutions to specific challenges in the different fisheries of the western waters. i am happy to see that with this new plan, we are clearly going in the right direction, towards sustainable fisheries, and i am grateful for the support in this house.
, on behalf of the epp group. mr president, commissioner, the anti-fraud programme to the multiannual plan, which we like even more. this multiannual plan is, of course, intended to ensure that stocks are exploited sustainably and that management is based on the most up-to-date scientific information. and the approach of this plan - as has already been said - is the same as that of the north sea, the baltic and the recently approved mediterranean. the multiannual approach will allow long-term planning of the management of fisheries resources, avoiding sudden fluctuations in fishing opportunities, while providing greater legal certainty for operators to better plan their businesses. it also allows for greater participation by local fishermen and offers tailor-made measures by basin and fishery. it also allows for a move away from the micromanagement of brussels, something that has always been criticised. the objective of achieving exploitation of stocks in accordance with the principle of maximum sustainable yield is also confirmed. and as regards recreational fishing, which can have a major impact on the mortality of stocks, it was agreed that the council could take appropriate measures if necessary. in addition, member states will take measures to monitor and collect data, which is important as there is often no real estimate of the catch levels of this fishery. finally, i would like to stress the link between the regulation of technical measures, which i hope will be reached very soon - the day after tomorrow - by the commission, the council and parliament, and the multiannual plans. it is very clear: the technical measures regulation should be the framework for all the rules on how, when and where fishing can take place.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the success of the multiannual plans for fisheries in the union is based on the seriousness of the scientific data supporting the decisions taken and the consistency with which they are applied to fishing areas and species. and only then does the concept of 'maximum sustainable performance' make sense. only in this way can fleets benefit from the stability offered by foreseeable quotas in the medium term. the commission has therefore decided to propose a new regulation on the protection of the environment. we insist on three points in order to eliminate them. first, better define the concept of 'best available scientific data'. we should only consider studies carried out with transparent working methods and a certificate of neutrality by sound technical authorities to be valid. secondly, to strengthen the guarantees for professionals against recreational catches of high-value species. the weight of recreational catches on stocks must be balanced and any competition between commercial and recreational catches on the market must be avoided. thirdly, to empower the european commission to act when national authorities do not exercise the responsibilities and powers conferred on them by this regulation under the regionalisation. adapting basic principles to specific situations should not be confused with not applying them. finally, we are pleased that the possibility has been removed that the council may suspend, even briefly and for exceptional reasons, catch bans imposed to restore a species. opening that possibility makes the saying "bread for today, hunger for tomorrow" come true. and in the case of fish stocks, 'hunger for tomorrow' means hunger for ever. and i would like to thank mr cadec and the other rapporteurs for the work they have done together.
mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, mr cadec, for his good work and to stress the speed with which this important plan for western waters has been approved. eleven months ago, i recall, the proposal was approved by the commission and in these days we are practically finishing the approval procedure. i would like to repeat an idea that is known and shared by many: i would have liked to have had two plans for the western waters, one for the north and one for the south, because they are very different areas. but we have been pragmatic, because it could not be too long before a plan for better management of resources was adopted. and there is another point i want to stress, and i repeated it in the committee on fisheries: i have not supported the inclusion of sea bass in the plan. on this point i disagree with the rapporteur, mr cadec. this is a species that is not subject to tacs or quotas, and the status of the resource is not the same in western waters, it is very different. for example, in galicia, in my country, it is captured selectively, it is at sustainable levels. unfortunately, the amendments i tabled on this point last october did not have the support of the house. the good news - and i end with this - is that the ban on the veiling of this species in the months of february and april has not succeeded in the trilogues; it made no sense. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr cadec, on his excellent report.
member of the commission. – mr president, as mr ferreira mentioned, the eu and the ivory coast have a longstanding relationship in fisheries. the renewal of the protocol to the sustainable fishing partnership agreement will further strengthen this relationship. through this partnership, the ivory coast not only offers access to its waters to eu vessels, but it also processes the products stemming from these vessels’ fishing activities and further exports them to the eu. this partnership will also help improve the sustainability of the fisheries sector, in particular through fighting illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. combating iuu fishing is a priority for both the european union and the ivory coast as iuu fishing threatens the natural resources and lives of local fishermen depending on them. this will reinforce the ongoing collaboration with the west africa regional bodies and the european fisheries control agency on monitoring, control and surveillance operations funded by pescao regional development programmes. this new six—year protocol provides increased funds to support the ivory coast’s fisheries policy. it will contribute to the establishment of a meaningful surveillance capacity and improved governance, and it will also support the development of the blue economy, inland aquatic resources and artisanal fisheries. we have placed special emphasis on the benefits for local operators as abidjan is a major port in the region. indeed, the eu tuna fleet operating off the coast of western africa lands a great part of the catches in abidjan to supply local canneries. this supports employment locally in the canneries, but also on board eu vessels as ivorian seamen are in the first rank of non—eu nationals employed. landings of eu vessels are also supporting the activities of small—scale economic operators. i would like to mention here the association of women organised to collect and transform such resources for local use. they have clearly expressed their needs for a supply from our vessels’ landings so that they could make a decent living from their activities. the commission is engaged in a dialogue with the industry to ensure that landings become a regular source of revenue for these women, as it is our conviction that eu industrial activities also need to benefit local small operators. i look forward to your remarks and trust that you will support the renewal of the protocol to this important sustainable fisheries agreement.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, this agreement is one of the most important for the community tuna fleet in the atlantic ocean, and the port of abidjan is practically the only operating port in the area. tuna trawlers use it for their transhipment operations and sales to canneries in the country, as well as for the provisioning and change of crews, taking on board a large number of seamen of this nationality. but above all, the sustainable fisheries agreements that the european union concludes with third countries are, as their very name indicates, a unique tool available to the european union to increase fisheries cooperation with third countries by promoting a sustainable fisheries policy and also a sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources outside the waters of the european union. and this is in the best interest of all. it's good for the operators in the european union, it's good for local development, it's good for the fight against illegal fishing, it's good for sustainability and good ocean governance. in parts of the world where there are no agreements with the european union, there are often fleets that do not respect fisheries resources or the marine environment. neither the social conditions of the workers nor sustainability. these fleets compete directly with our operators in the european union and often catch the same fish and sell them to the same markets, but at much lower prices. for this reason, maintaining these types of agreements is vital. the european union's longstanding agreement with côte d'ivoire has been helping the country, the côte d'ivoire economy, local fishermen, the use of the port facilities in abidjan and, of course, the canneries. we must therefore ratify this agreement as soon as possible. and i thank the rapporteur and all the other rapporteurs.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, fisheries agreements between europe and third countries have proved to be a key tool in extending the environmental and social standards applicable to the sector in community waters throughout the world. they also promote development in the countries with which they are signed and offer fishing opportunities to our professionals. in this case, 36 tuna seiners from spain, france and portugal will be fishing under this agreement, which will be in force until 2024, a key agreement for the basque tuna fleet, whose vessels have also been carrying out independent certifications of good environmental and social practices since 2010, when they were recognised as 'friends of the sea'. as has been said, the economic contribution which the agreement will bring to côte d'ivoire is partly compensated for by the catches, but the bulk of the resources are allocated to the development of the local fisheries sector. a central element in this chapter is support for the operations of the port of abidjan, which was once affected by the council sanctions against the regime of laurent gbagbo. the promotion of local professionals and businesses is complemented by a commitment to the quality of scientific studies on fish stocks, the establishment of fisheries areas protected for biological reasons and the reinforcement of control measures against undeclared, unregulated and unregulated fishing. i would also stress the commitment to improving the position and working conditions of women in the local small-scale fishing sector, which is dedicated to smoking fish, and to promoting women's professional organisations as a guarantee of the sustainability and development of the area.
the rapporteur. mr president, during this term the committee on constitutional affairs has not stopped working on how to improve the current institutional regulatory framework, our rules of the game. that is why we have produced a large number of reports on the application of the rules governing our institutions. we are ripe for the final push on those issues which we have found particularly relevant. i have had the honour of being the rapporteur on the implementation of the treaty provisions relating to citizenship of the union at a crucial time like the one we are living in. 'collective public policies are the only thing that can create citizens with the trust of individuals', says timothy snyder in his latest book. the concept of citizenship of the union was introduced more than 20 years ago and today at least one generation of europeans has grown up as community citizens. and a generation of children needs adjustments and improvements in the concept of european citizenship so that they will soon be our young europeans. the treaties state that a citizen of the european union is a person who has the nationality of one of the member states. citizenship of the union is thus added to citizenship of the state. however, the law has fallen short of reality. about what young people and children already perceive. we have a responsibility today to accept the results that european barometers have repeatedly revealed to us. 87% of europeans are aware of their status as citizens - the highest percentage ever recorded. but there's a disconnect between what they perceive and what's real. there are shortcomings, there is a deficit and there is a need to give some of these freedoms a real scope. the citizens of the union do not exercise their right to vote and stand as candidates in european and municipal elections as much as they could. most of them need more information. and exercising your active citizenship, politics, is key to building much more inclusive, more prosperous, more responsible societies, with less risk of temptations to exclusionary populism. nationalist and populist ideologies promote exclusionary identities; once again we know this in europe. and, on the horizon, this always brings a loss of rights. they give false solutions to real and complex problems, and they feed off the spread of victimhood. our responsibility is to make improvements that provide solutions, and that also provide solutions in improving what european citizenship means. at present, freedom of movement is enshrined, but it has limits in application. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next partsession. in this context, effectively boosting programmes such as erasmus+, volunteering programmes such as the european voluntary service and the european solidarity corps, feed into mobility opportunities. the educational and personal development of young europeans is without doubt the best investment. an investment that comes out very profitable. this report also advocates the development of curricula in education systems that make it possible to know our common space, our european values, starting from article 165 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. no policy has created so much of a sense of the european as mobility and education. when knowledge is capitalized, it always leads to a natural and spontaneous increase in the link between institutions and citizens. commissioner timmermans has told us this many times through his own personal experiences. okay, i'm going to finish up. we have studied the full potential of the europe direct options and the scope of the rights and obligations to give them a greater possibility, to encourage participation. but there's something, there's something, to finish, that's very important. we need symbols. we need to follow the example of luxembourg and make 9 may a public holiday for the whole of europe. and we can ask the european council to decide whether the heads of state or government should declare it a public holiday. and there are also many, many issues where we can reach our full potential. a statute for citizenship of the european union would be a novel instrument for this. that is why in this report we wanted to change the perspective and to put citizens at the centre of the system for the future: citizens, and not an algorithm.
rapporteur for the committee on petitions. – mr president, i would like to say to the rapporteurs that their reports are good and cover many of our concerns. we agree on the importance of the creation of eu citizenship and the rights attached to it. however, these rights are not fully implemented. we want a union where citizenship is linked to residency, where gender equality is fully effective and where the right to political participation is fully implemented. after the economic crisis, and with the current humanitarian crisis in the mediterranean and the increasing attacks against women’s rights, eu citizens feel that the eu should do more to protect their rights. the report on the implementation of the charter assesses its state of play and makes recommendations to improve it. despite the weak implementation of certain provisions, we expect that the house will not miss the opportunity to send a clear message that parliament is committed to strengthening the application of the charter in full, including social rights and the rights of refugees and ensuring gender equality.
mr president, we are talking about european citizenship, and i would like to remind you that this is what it means to make europe. because living as europeans anywhere in europe, in any country, and having the same rights as nationals, is precisely what this report is calling for. i would also like to add my voice to the praise that has been paid to mr lamassoure for the report on enhanced cooperation. i would like to say that enhanced cooperation is one of those elements which constitute the way of building europe that we have to do. because national differences cannot be a hindrance to the will of a group of countries - of most countries - to make europe. there is too much heterogeneity, there are too many differences, but there is a world that demands that europe work together and do more things together, and enhanced cooperation is a necessary instrument. that is why i also want to thank this report, which must set the course for the europe of the future that most of us want to build.
mr president, very few people outside this house or the institutions know that 9 may is europe day. being non-holiday, it is a totally invisible day, and what is not visible does not exist. and it is forgetfulness, along with fear, that threatens our coexistence. we must remember that the european project is a great tool for peace, for solidarity, for the social achievements of the post-war period. to do this, let us make europe day a public holiday throughout the european union. in the face of oblivion, more memory. we emphasize what we have in common, the everyday symbols shared by all european citizens, because those who do not remember their past are doomed to repeat it.
mr president, mr vice-president timmermans, there are many of us in this european parliament who have followed, not with interest but with a very positive assessment, your commitment to better regulation, to improving the functioning of european law. but we are also talking here about the implementation of european law already in force, in particular that which strengthened this european parliament as never before in history, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. and that is why i think that rather than thinking of revising the treaties to give the european parliament even more power, we should do better in the parliamentary role that distinguishes a parliament worthy of the name. firstly, by demanding that the commission respond accurately and, of course, immediately, within a given time, in accordance with parliament's mandate, to the initiatives of the european parliament. and secondly, the quality of the commission's replies to the european parliament, which leaves much to be desired. many of us regularly get angry when we receive inane, routine replies from the commission, which in practice mean a contempt for the real dimension of the european parliament as a body of political control of the commission's work. we therefore believe that a commitment to improving the quality of the answers would be a huge step forward in respecting this european parliament.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i have listened to the different perspectives in this parliament on what it is to be a citizen and on the issue of an ever-closer union, and i want to start by adding my own perspective, after 33 years now, first as a soldier, then as a diplomat, then as a member of parliament, then a minister, and now as a member of the commission. it would be impossible for me not to acknowledge that, in those 33 years, european citizens from east and west, north and south have grown closer together. in that sense, an ever-closer union is something that i have seen happening in my lifetime. it is not anybody’s dream to impose a ‘superstate’ or something of that nature. it is about citizens sharing, more and more, the same values and coming closer together on what they think is important for them and their children. who could say today that a polish citizen living in the european union is less free than a polish citizen before poland joined the european union? nobody could say that! who could say today that any citizen, in any member state, has lost her or his identity because of the european union? i honestly believe identities are more protected thanks to the european union, thanks to the charter of fundamental rights, and thanks to all the legal norms that the european union and its member states have adhered to. so let’s not turn things around. let’s see them in the right historical perspective. i wanted, at least, to share with you my perspective. i respect all the other perspectives, but this is mine, from my experience. i want to add that the reports we’re discussing today are part of an ongoing process of institutions trying to work within the legal order that we have, the treaties, to try to improve the situation: not just creating more power for themselves but doing something about our citizens’ worries, and finding answers to the big challenges. and, boy, has the european union been challenged in the past 10 years! crisis after crisis – and, every time, this parliament has responded with great responsibility to those crises, working together closely with the commission, sometimes not so closely with the council, but all three of us trying to find solutions. these reports reflect the wish of the majority of this parliament to do an ever-better job, and the commission will be on your side to try to improve its activities, to work together to improve our performance for european citizens. i would invite you to join me in trying to convince the council to take similar steps forward. i think this is important. i want to end on the issue raised by alain lamassoure. chers collègues, chers parlementaires, je voudrais vous dire que la pensée d’alain lamassoure, qui est convaincu que nous pouvons encore faire un grand nombre de choses au sein du traité que nous avons aujourd’hui entre les mains, est une réalité politique qui nous pousse à agir, sur la base de ce qui est écrit dans les rapports, mais aussi avec une volonté politique en cherchant une majorité au parlement européen. certes, cette majorité ne sera pas la même qu’auparavant, certes il y aura beaucoup de travail à faire, mais je crois vraiment que les traités existants nous offrent de très nombreuses possibilités. un jour, il faudra changer les traités mais, pour le moment, nous devrons travailler avec les traités existants. et ce que m. lamassoure a écrit dans son rapport nous conduit à chercher des réponses aux défis d’aujourd’hui et de demain, au sein des traités, en rapprochant l’union européenne de ses citoyens. je m’adresse maintenant directement à alain lamassoure, en reconnaissance du travail qu’il a fait au parlement européen, en reconnaissance du travail qu’il a fait pour l’intégration européenne, afin d’aider l’union à relever les défis d’aujourd’hui et de demain, et aussi, si je puis dire, pour son amitié, son intégrité et sa pensée vraiment très européenne. merci, alain.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner timmermans, i think it is very clear that we cannot be timid at this moment, and certainly not be ambiguous or cowardly. because we have to defend the european institutions, including this parliament, which is democratic, and the commission, which in its role is making it possible for us to solve problems with policies which have european added value, problems which individual small countries could not solve in this real world of the globalised 21st century. it's not a whim of identities, of course. you have to have a very closed identity and seek homogeneity - that is, cutting people's freedoms - to think that there is an attempt to impose some kind of identity here. nothing could be further from the truth. we must explain to the citizens that there are those who do not want them to have more rights as european citizens, who do not want them to have the right to complete european mobility, who do not want investments, who do not want social issues so that young people, especially young people, can live more fully and can move from one place to another. that some people look at it with suspicion, as if it were something shameful, that we can have a common day, a europe day. for some of us, of course, we are neither cowardly nor ambiguous, and we say it clearly. i hope the member states will say that we can have a common day. and common values are not about infiltrating any kind of identity. identities are multiple and if not, you read amin maalouf.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, my group values and supports the ombudsman's role. as the vice-president of the commission has pointed out, it is a key institution in protecting citizens from instances of maladministration in the union's institutions. we therefore want this institution to continue to operate within the current institutional framework, but adapted to some of the issues that have arisen in recent years and on which parliament has spoken: for example, improving access to documents; for example, protecting or intervening in the protection of whistleblowers; and, for example, also taking into account the many cases of harassment of various kinds that occur in the institutions. but we do not want the ombudsman to be an actor before the court of justice of the european union. we want the sentences to be enforced. we want it to protect european citizens in this respect, but not to be a judicial actor. and we want it to have greater financial and administrative tools to do its job.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, first of all, we want to point out that the emily o'reilly team and the role they are playing in the european ombudsman's office is very remarkable to us, and that is why we have followed with such interest some of the reports which, more intensely, spoke of the need for access to information not to be something discretionary on the part of public authorities. and although at first we had doubts as to whether or not it was a priority to reform the statute, what we do think is that mr rangel has managed to handle the matter in a prudent and very specific way. the changes to the statute are intended to strengthen the independence and effectiveness of the ombudsman's office. and they're done with finesse, which is why we applaud them. however, there have been amendments to the text which were unanimously adopted by the committee on constitutional affairs, and our group wants to be part of those which follow the path taken by the committee on constitutional affairs with regard to the protection of whistleblowers and in certain procedures relating to sexual harassment. because these are areas where we can make improvements and we will try to do so in this parliamentary procedure; in any case, what we do want to say is that european citizens expect a lot from the european ombudsman and that we have to live up to that expectation.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the reform of the ombudsman’s statute is a good opportunity to update its capacity. we want to include in the statute three competencies. first, on whistle-blowers, we want to make explicit that the ombudsman should be able to carry out investigations based on information by whistle-blowers, and we want to delete the references to professional secrecy in order to avoid any possible restrictions on future legislation on whistle—blowing polices. second, on sexual harassment, the ombudsman should be able to deal with complaints on sexual harassment without exhausting the internal procedures of the institutions. third, on public access to documents, we want to delete any restrictions on access to documents that narrow the scope of the regulation on public access to documents. this is how we will continue to defend good administration and transparency.
madam president, on 1 october 2017, the spanish police exercised disproportionate violence against catalan citizens. they injured 1 066 people, citizens who were not even demonstrating: they were just voters trying peacefully to cast a vote in a referendum. the whole world could see this terrible police behaviour, which amnesty international, for instance, denounced as excessive and disproportionate use of force. and yet, so far, none of these police officers nor their political supervisors has been condemned. far from apologising, the spanish foreign minister, josep borrell, keeps insulting the victims of this police violence while stating that everything is fake news. those who promoted a peaceful and democratic vote in catalonia will tomorrow be sitting in front of a judge, facing up to 25 years’ imprisonment, while those who promoted state violence against peaceful voters have not suffered any consequences. this is definitely not the europe we stand for.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for the inspiring debate. as with most fundamental freedoms, there are also boundaries for the expression of free speech and for the right to assemble. when demonstrations turn violent and when there are instances of hate speech, it is for the authorities of member states to maintain law and order, subject to judicial review, and to ensure that the rights and freedoms of others are not endangered. in doing so, and while pursuing the legitimate need to uphold security for citizens and property, the authorities of the member states must ensure that freedom of assembly and freedom of expression are effectively respected and protected, in accordance with their national legislation and international obligations. the european union, through the fundamental rights agency and the agency for law enforcement training, supports the exchange of best practice and includes handbooks on respecting fundamental rights in police activities.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am happy tonight to address, at parliament’s request, the issue of large carnivores – iconic species of the european landscape. this debate is timely because, given the discussions taking place in many regions in europe, my colleague commissioner hogan and i have jointly addressed a letter to all the eu environment and agriculture ministers explaining the commission’s approach to this issue and highlighting the support we provide, and i am happy to do the same in this house tonight. having suffered a very serious decline in most areas of europe, large carnivore populations have been recovering in recent decades, and returning to countries and regions of their former range. they are protected species under the eu habitats directive and their recovery is a contribution towards nature protection in europe and towards halting global biodiversity loss. however, i am fully conscious of the challenge that the return of these species presents, especially in those areas where they had been absent for many decades and in rural areas with extensive livestock farming. that is why, for several years, the commission has been supporting the active involvement of all relevant parties in finding suitable and acceptable approaches to reconciling the conservation of large carnivores and the legitimate interests of the people concerned. this work includes supporting and co-chairing the eu large carnivore platform, bringing together key stakeholder groups to facilitate mutual understanding. through the implementation of a european parliament pilot project, the commission is also helping to establish regional platforms, to foster dialogue among stakeholders and local authorities, in the areas where conflicts generated by the return of large carnivores are more frequent, for example in romania, italy and spain. projects under the programme for environment and climate action (life) also contribute significantly to supporting the active involvement of all those concerned and a participatory approach, in order to find solutions based on coexistence. the commission is aware of the fact that, at local level, the wolf may be an additional challenge for farmers in an already difficult social and economic context. in those areas where traditional livestock-protection practices have been abandoned, the return of the wolf certainly entails additional challenges for sheep farmers. that is why the commission believes that the sector should be appropriately supported to reduce its vulnerability to predation and ensure its co-existence with wild carnivores. support is available under national and eu funds, through life and rural development projects, and further efforts are necessary to raise awareness among those concerned, so that all possibilities are fully availed of. in november last year, the commission amended the eu guidelines for state aid in the agriculture and forestry sectors and in rural areas, in order to allow for full compensation, up to 100%, for damage caused by protected animals, including veterinary costs or costs related to the search for missing animals, and for full reimbursement, up to 100%, of investments to prevent such damage – for example in electric fences or livestock-guarding dogs. regarding the calls from some quarters to address the challenges by changing our legislation, i would remind the house that, under its ‘smart regulation’ approach, the commission keeps the entire eu legislative acquis under regular review. in december 2016, the commission published the results of the fitness check evaluation of the eu birds and habitats directives – what we called the nature directives. this confirmed that the current legal framework is sound and remains relevant, including as regards the directives’ annexes. all the eu institutions, the member state governments and the record high number of citizens – more than 550 000 – who replied to a public consultation have supported such conclusions and confirmed that the birds and habitats directives remain highly relevant and are fit for purpose. therefore, the commission has been devoting all its efforts to helping member states and stakeholders to improve the directives’ implementation, addressing the weaknesses and challenges identified in the fitness check. to that end, in april 2017, we adopted an action plan for nature, people and the economy, to be implemented by the end of 2019. this action plan contains important elements related to the challenges of conserving large carnivores and addressing the associated conflicts. these include, firstly, the update of the guidance document on species protection under the habitats directive; and secondly, continuing and expanding support for the large carnivore platform at eu and also at regional level. thirdly, greater use of rural development measures will be promoted to support prevention of livestock predation by large carnivores. fourthly, there is the increased life funding for nature projects, including for the protection of species and for coexistence. fifthly, on-the-spot missions, ad hoc meetings and nature dialogues will be held to discuss problems and solutions with authorities and stakeholders. sixthly, a peer-to-peer support mechanism will help member states’ authorities to learn from each other in terms of implementation on the ground. the final element is the update of the prioritised action frameworks, which identify the financial needs related to species protection, including for damage prevention, mitigation and compensation, in view of the upcoming eu financial perspectives for the period 2021 to 2027. the updated guidance document i mentioned is a work in progress. it is being drafted in very close cooperation with member states and with stakeholders. after a first round of consultations, a second draft is currently being prepared and will be subject to a new round of consultations in the coming months. the updated guidance aims to deliver on the commitments in the nature action plan to ensure clarity and consistency in the interpretation of the habitats directive, taking into account the recent case law of the european court of justice. the commission will not propose any new rules or legal obligations. the guidance document will provide the commission’s view on interpretation of the species-protection provisions under the habitats directive. honourable members of the european parliament are of course welcome to share their views on the draft guidance with the commission. all these measures are aimed at helping national authorities and the relevant stakeholders. however, it is for the relevant national authorities to decide on the most appropriate measures in each case, in line with eu law.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption and implementation of the habitats directive, among other measures, was intended to improve the sustainability of europe's natural ecosystems; animal species at risk of extinction could benefit from its measures. however, it has had a very harsh effect on one of the most important species in the rural ecosystem - livestock farmers and their families - with significant and constant economic losses. the wolf, the bear, the lynx have seen their populations improve. and now, for example, the wolf in spain even has a favorable conservation status in large territories. however, reality has shown that this directive is incompatible with traditional extensive grazing, which is precisely one of the activities in the rural world that we want and must protect. the damage to farmers is constant and the european directive has not been accompanied by sufficient budgetary measures to alleviate the enormous losses caused to cattle, sheep and goat farmers, and therefore these farmers are now the most vulnerable species. the farmer is in a clear decline, he has no way of coping with these policies which are causing him so much damage and which did not take sufficient account of the effects they would have on livestock farming in the european countryside, which is also still declining, abandoning an activity which is part of the cultural heritage of rural europe. the issue has reached such an extreme that even foodstuffs with a european designation of origin and geographical indication, which are directly dependent on extensive livestock farming for their raw material - milk - cannot take place. idiazabal, ibores or roncal are also species that will disappear if we do not have enough livestock. we must maintain the extensive cattle farms and we must do it with money, gentlemen.
in writing. i live in castilla y león, which is one of the three largest regions in the eu. the population is concentrated mainly in 14 population centres. this community is divided by the douro river. north of the river, the wolf is a game species, south of where i live, it's not. my province, ávila, is by far the province most attacked by the lobadas; 273 attacks in 2017, and only in the first half of 2018 there were 748 certified attacks, 75.1% more than the previous year. ávila is the spanish province most affected by the wolf due to its "uncontrolled expansion". livestock farming is a very important economic activity in my community and my province. the cattle farm puts the cattle farmer in the countryside. without proper regulation, wolves drive farmers out of their natural environment, impoverishing them and making it difficult for them to replace their herds. this situation is made even worse by the demographic problems of generational ageing and depopulation of the countryside in my province of ávila. the public authorities must give priority to protecting the cattle farmer in the south of the duero and, in particular, the cattle farmer in ávila. the eu must commit itself to the solution.
the european union is facing a crisis of its own, as mr juncker himself said, and that is why he has proposed five scenarios for the future of europe. what parliament is doing, in short, is also taking the contributions of the prime ministers and heads of state who have been present over the last two years and trying to offer what is the proposal, the scenario, in which parliament feels in the majority. the report really describes a whole set of circumstances which force us to 'rethink europe'. firstly, because we recognise the serious problems in the economic governance of monetary union; because we recognise the serious social effects of the economic policies of austerity, especially in the southern countries; because we know that brexit forces us to think about a europe that is probably different as a result of the withdrawal of the united kingdom; because there have been major disagreements between the different countries, especially, for example, in the field of migration policies; because new problems, such as internal security and external security - the first of which is the problem of terrorist attacks, and the second of a very conflicted neighbourhood - force us to re-conceive european defence; because there have been many dysfunctions in the functioning of the union in recent years. in any case, what we are saying is that europe needs to set up a road map. and what the report offers are some reflections, some rough ideas. the first, for example, is that nationalism is not the answer. we are all too small in the european union to face the big challenges and this is a common denominator of virtually all the prime ministers who have been here. and in that sense, i would say that the european parliament's bet is mr juncker's fifth scenario: doing more together. i would say: do better what we can only do together. a second line of thought, no doubt, is that integration, better integration, has to overcome a number of problems which have been identified as structural. for example, unanimity on certain issues: taxation, foreign policy, etc.; the timid use of enhanced cooperation; the temptation of many states to abuse the right to a 'europe à la carte'. and so we could continue with dysfunctions that need to be resolved in the coming months. the commission must regain political initiative, because we believe that the european council has regained too much of the imbalance of power during the crisis. a more flexible commission, more political; more power to parliament, with a right of initiative, with the spitzenkandidaten as the fundamental rule of connection between elections and the presidency of the commission itself; more control of the commission. in short, ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of laying down broad lines for better integration, to do better what we can only do together. and what this debate raises is that the next electoral debate should take up these reflections and propose to the citizens a deep reflection - i would say political - on what the future lines of the european union project should be.
mr president, commissioner, we remember very well when, in 2016, president juncker brought to this house the debate on the so-called 'white paper on the future of europe' and many of us were angry to see that the commission had no plan, so it offered us everything from continuing to drag our feet, as we have been doing, to the federal leap, which is not realistic. but there were two options that did prove to be a way out. enhanced cooperation, which does not mean europe to the letter or variable geometry, but a coalition of those who really want europe and are willing to put the necessary resources on the table to achieve it. and, of course, to do together what only together can we do. this report on the future of europe clearly sets out the european parliament's position on this matter, but nothing will make sense if europe is not able to increase its cohesive budgets to restore not only the social model but also its vocation for solidarity and the correction of inequalities, especially with the less favoured regions: the outermost regions, the outermost regions, the more remote and less populated regions are those who need it most... (the president withdrew the floor to the speaker)
mr president, i was going to talk about the impact of brexit on the outermost regions, but i will use my minute to respond to an attack that has been made against the foreign minister of my country, josep borrell, in a debate on the disproportionate use of police force in relation to events that took place in spain on 1 october two years ago. because it's out of place, unfair and in conflict with the truth. unfair because those events took place when the popular party ruled spain. out of place because in no case was the foreign minister responsible - or is he now - for any use of police force. but above all, it is in conflict with the truth, because he has been accused of fake news, when it is precisely minister borrell who is characterized by introducing rigor in the face of the manipulation and intoxication that is "too much" and the tension that is "too much" in the treatment of the catalan question. the need for dialogue, yes, but within the limits of the constitution and the law. these events took place precisely because the constitution and the law were violated by disobeying a ruling of the constitutional court that prohibited the holding of any consultation.
mr president, tomorrow a trial will begin in madrid against members of the former government of catalonia and against the two most respected and beloved social leaders in our country. the trial is clearly political. the german, belgian and scottish courts do not accept the crimes of which the detainees, who have already been in pretrial detention for over a year, are accused. a post-franco, stale and anti-democratic judiciary has seized power, with the support of the previous pp government and with the consent of the current psoe government. this february 12th reminds me of another february 12th 46 years ago, when carlos arias navarro, carrero blanco's successor, proclaimed what he called "the spirit of february 12th". yes, we will continue in the spirit of the black spain of forty-six years ago, with franco still alive. eternal spain continues to impose itself on modern spain. and, in this house, tajani and most, no comment. a real shame.
mr president, tomorrow in madrid the most shameful political trial the european union has ever seen will begin. twelve people will be tried in europe for having organised a referendum on self-determination following a democratic mandate. this judgment is the triumph of state nationalism and the politics of revenge, but it is the failure of european values and the primacy of politics over repression. official europe has failed us. but you know that treating honest politicians as criminals, abusing and twisting the rule of law to support false accusations, a far-right party nostalgic of francoism exercising the popular accusation, you know that all this is a direct attack on european values. but it will be our stubborn defence of these values and of european justice itself that will finally make amends for the injustices committed and that will bring us back on the path of democracy, justice and freedom.
mr president, tomorrow we shall vote on the fisheries agreement between morocco and the european union, which includes the territory of western sahara within its area of application, leaving the management of resources that do not belong to them in the hands of the moroccan authorities. the court of justice of the european union has in several judgments highlighted two aspects which were not taken into account in the negotiations. the first is that western sahara is not moroccan territory, and the second is that the consent of the saharawi people, through their legitimate representatives, is necessary to negotiate what happens to their land and water. ratifying this agreement means putting economic interests above the fundamental pillars of the european union, such as human rights and respect for the rule of law, not only the judgments of the court of justice but also various resolutions of the united nations. ratifying this agreement means being complicit in the occupation of western sahara and hindering peace talks to find a just and lasting solution.
member of the commission. – mr president, i addressed this house a little more than a year ago to present our proposal, these proposals, to strengthen our european union civil protection mechanism. today, after a year, parliament is voting for the most ambitious european civil protection system that ever existed. and today, parliament is voting for something that was really politically unthinkable a few years ago. among friends, i have to be frank. it was really a very difficult and demanding job to persuade our member states to accept this upgrade, but, at the end of the day, we managed together to get this very ambitious common purpose. today, i am proud of being a european citizen. i would like to express, first of all, my sincere gratitude to the rapporteur, elisabetta gardini, for her leadership, and of course my thanks to all colleagues, my dear colleague željana zovko, my dear colleague fernandes and all other rapporteurs from all political groups, and of course my thanks go to the parliamentary groups and to the european parliament that supported overwhelmingly this ground-breaking initiative. dear colleagues, with your political support, resceu will be a reality ahead of the next forest fire season. and this is also thanks to your dedication to our common goal: to protect our citizens, to save lives and to save their livelihoods. you rightly insisted on a guarantee to have more disaster response means available immediately. today, i can tell you this: we are working closely with our member states to set in motion as soon as possible the so-called ‘resceu transition phase’, so that disaster response capacities can be in place to respond to possible forest fires in europe already this year, in 2019. the feedback from member states so far is positive and i would also like to thank them here today for their positive approach. let us have no illusions. natural disasters will not stop. on the contrary, they will become more frequent and more intense because of climate change. it is not fake news. it is happening now and we have to deal with this new phenomenon due to climate change. what we aim to do with resceu is to better equip ourselves to face these disasters due to climate change. dear colleagues, with this new legislation we are also putting more emphasis on prevention, on preparedness. the european parliament made it very clear that this was a priority, and we have done our best to put in place a system that offers more support to member states to exchange information and learn from each other. today, modestly, we mark the beginning of a new era for european civil protection. this is about a europe that protects. we owe this, as i said, to our citizens. i would like to conclude by saying once again that we should all be proud because of this achievement, and i thank you so much for your dedication. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, europe is built on solidarity and brotherhood between its peoples, and this is a principle which we must remember today more than ever in this house in strasbourg. solidarity between europeans is built from the ground up and from the most basic principle, which is help in the face of events we cannot foresee. we recently experienced it in the severe fires that ravaged portugal and galicia in 2017. however, we must be equally honest with ourselves, and something is wrong when europe is not the first to respond to a catastrophe like this. i therefore believe that the action of the civil protection mechanism will be a good tool that can also be combined with the proposal of the european solidarity corps. it will enable us to continue to take pride in the union, showing that united we can better meet the challenges ahead. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, mr gardini, for the work he has done on this dossier, for the good result achieved and for the functionality and direct impact this mechanism will have in the future on european society.
mr president, today i want to celebrate the launch of this mechanism which is to make more europe, more europe from solidarity, preventing and minimising the effects of the natural challenges facing the european union. but i would like to take this opportunity to stress once again the need to modify the european union solidarity fund, which is intended to deal with the repair of these natural disasters. i think it is important - as we have been asking for - to introduce environmental measures: to make them economically accountable and to ensure that they can be effectively repaired. i also think it is particularly important that the calculation of the beneficiary regions be based on criteria of real gdp, gdp per head, not the total gdp of the regions. we are seeing how regions with a higher economic level benefit and regions with a lower economic level are left out of this solidarity fund to deal with these major natural disasters. i am aware that this is not the specific regulation, but it does call for the need to make synergy with these funds and therefore it needs to be revised. i'm glad you're here.
mr president, commissioner, we have to meet the objectives of directive 2009/128/ec on the sustainable use of pesticides. in addition, citizens want plant protection products to be low-risk, to leave no residues in food and to have no impact on the environment. in any case, we must be aware that in the european union we have the most restrictive legislation on the use of pesticides. and so farmers are under a lot of restrictions when it comes to pesticide use and they are at a disadvantage compared to their competitors in third countries, who use pesticides that are banned here and then, in addition, we import the food they produce with these pesticides. nor can we forget the great risk posed by the new pests. i am referring, for example, to the xylella fastidiosa on olive trees or the black spot on citrus fruit, which have come to us from outside, to speak only of more recent situations. finally, i welcome this report, but we must not compromise the work already being done to develop a sustainable use of pesticides, nor forget the need for pesticides in agriculture.
madam president, to talk about crossborder healthcare is to talk about free movement; after all, it is about the fundamental principles of the european union. the eurobarometer clearly shows how health is one of the main values for european citizens. but we are also aware that the competence in health is distributed, as well as the special connotations and sensitivity of the subject of health. we have a directive, in my view, which is particularly ambitious - positive, but, as i say, ambitious - and which has been implemented unevenly by the member states within the european union. i would like to begin by adding that for this directive to be successful we need first of all a precondition, which is a clear commitment by the member states to their public health systems, to strengthen them as guarantors of social cohesion. this directive can never replace the necessary commitment of the member states to their public health system. i therefore believe that we should start implementing it step by step, objective by objective, starting with the european health insurance card. we cannot dissociate crossborder health from the harmonization of this european health card, in order to avoid the discrimination it entails today, and it should be made possible under the principle of universality, in which students, the unemployed, the selfemployed, all people, all european citizens are included. secondly, the recipe, the recognition of the recipe. and thirdly, as the directive states and as one of the next objectives to be developed by the commission in relation to digital health, i think that the member states must be involved from the outset. i believe that public health systems are the only and best guarantors of data stewardship, patient privacy and equity in health systems. i would therefore ask you to make the public institutions, the member states, particularly participants and protagonists in this great project which is now being drawn up by the european commission.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank mrs bonafè for the work she has done on this report and for the good cooperation we have had between all the alternative rapporteurs. the regulation we are voting on today should not only serve to advance sustainable water management, but also to address a new aspect of the circular economy. although the regulation is limited to agricultural uses of water, we must be clear that the expansion of the uses of reused water must begin to be considered in other areas that make an exhaustive use of water, such as industry. in this connection, i would like to highlight the cofinancing, through the life programme, of a project for the reuse of water for industrial purposes in the petrochemical complex in tarragona. and like this, other projects at union level must be developed taking into account, as the commissioner rightly said, that the estimates tell us that by 2030 half of the european population will suffer from water scarcity. i would therefore ask the council to understand that what affects us today in the southern european countries will affect all europeans tomorrow. i therefore believe that in future the commission should propose reforms, transforming what is now a regulation into a directive so that, for once, we do not act in reaction to a problem but in anticipation and foresight.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs bonafè, whose expertise, as she has put it in her text on the circular economy, is really to be commended at this time in the field of waste water reuse. in the case of spain, we have a long history of water needs. we are the country with the highest reuse of water, but at the same time we are aware of how fragile the need for flexible regulation is, especially given that spanish watersheds are very different and have very different needs. we therefore also appreciate mrs bonafè's willingness to address precisely those needs. this regulation is going to be very important. we need that flexibility. but in any case, mr vella, we also need a directive on contaminated soils. when will there be a directive on contaminated soils in europe? the water problem starts in the soils. for when, mr. vella?
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, in principle we are not against the reuse of water, but this commission proposal has a number of problems. firstly, the treatment of reclaimed water will be in the hands of private operators - and as the commissioner has said, it is a new business opportunity - who will obviously look after their business and not our health. so we think that such a sensitive activity should be in public hands, just like the whole water cycle. secondly, it is recognised that not all reclaimed water can be used to irrigate all crops. so my question is: these waters that are not going to be used for a certain crop and are going to be used for others, how are you going to guarantee that they are not going to pollute the aquifers? third one. i think we cannot continue with the logic of hiding all our waste in the countryside. everything that goes to the earth comes back to us in the form of food, water or air. so i think we have to work on other development models.
madam president, i would just like to ask if mr vella can tell us today where the contaminated soil directive stands. i asked him yesterday, but he didn't answer; it was a different topic, it had nothing to do with the environment, but today i would like to have an answer.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, human rights watch is warning us that we are about to vote on a fisheries agreement between the eu and morocco which includes western sahara, in violation of international law. as meps are not above the law, we are called upon to seek the opinion of the court of justice of the european union beforehand. if we really care about the rule of law, international law and human rights as much as we always say here, let us be consistent and ask the european judiciary for its opinion first.
madam president, i wanted to clarify my positive vote on this agreement. fisheries agreements are all important for the countries with which they are signed and, of course, for the european fleet. but i would like to emphasize this agreement with a small country, such as the ivory coast, a country with only 20 million inhabitants and more than 60 different ethnic groups, and which has also gone through a period of turbulence and civil war that has exacerbated its terrible social inequalities. i think that the signing of an agreement with côte d'ivoire, even though it does not have a large fisheries sector, is a positive aspect and a sign of solidarity and joint work by the european union and that country. and, in addition, the fishing sector will benefit, which is specifically made up of tuna vessels that will fish under this agreement. it has been almost 30 years since the signing of the agreement and it is positive for both sides.
madam president, if there is one positive aspect of this report - which has many aspects - it is that we are actually approving it, we have approved it in this house before brexit. the western atlantic waters will therefore be well regulated with a multiannual fisheries management plan, and we have also managed to get it approved in time. i think it has very positive aspects, such as giving greater stability to fisheries in western waters. it is true that, at first, we would have liked to see a division between north and south. but it is fine as it is now, because it is understood that it will bring stability to this fisheries sector. we are talking about more than 4 000 vessels, so it is a very important area. we would also have liked to see a greater restriction on recreational fishing as opposed to commercial fishing, but, i repeat, it is the cfp that is being complied with and, ultimately, this management plan is going to be good for the future of the atlantic fisheries sector.
madam president, according to a study recently published in the journal biological conservation, insects could disappear from the planet within a hundred years, and that would be a terrible thing. in fact, today, about a third of all insect species are threatened with extinction. the consequences of such a disappearance would be catastrophic both for ecosystems and for humanity itself. the authors of the study believe that the main cause of this species loss is clearly the use of pesticides associated with extensive agricultural practices. we must therefore change our agricultural model now by adopting a preventive approach, avoiding exposure to pesticides by adopting non-chemical and truly sustainable farming methods, such as crop rotation, physical and mechanical control or the management of natural predators. in the face of monsanto we must push forward the sustainable solutions that farmers want to put in place.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, the war in syria has entered yet another new phase, particularly since the us announcement of troop withdrawal, but a political solution to the crisis is still not in sight. it should be clear that the only sustainable way out is a negotiated solution under the auspices of the united nations (un), and we will not tire of repeating this. carving out spheres of influence in a partitioned syria will not bring peace, security and stability to the country and the region. the north-east of syria is now the subject of negotiations between the kurdish-led syrian democratic forces, the usa, russia, turkey and the syrian regime. daesh is not defeated yet and it’s essential to prevent terrorists from making a comeback in the future. we fully understand the security concerns of turkey, but we also believe they can truly be addressed only if the sovereignty and integrity of the syrian state is preserved. we hope that any security arrangement for the north will ensure protection for people of all ethnicities and religions, and that it will prevent new suffering and clashes on the ground. in the meantime, the al-qaeda wing in syria, formerly known as the al—nusra front or hayat tahrir al-sham (hts) is consolidating its control over the idlib area in the north-west of syria. this development has forced us to put on hold as a precautionary measure all the commission programmes brokered in idlib province. the same happened in the south of syria, where it was not possible to continue our work. unfortunately, the needs are dire. the sole positive note is the recent humanitarian delivery in rukban camp on the jordan border where 60 000 syrians are stranded, including many women and children. humanitarian organisations need access to the whole country. all the crossing-points towards syria must stay open, in particular those located in the north-west and the north-east of the country. this is even more urgent during winter, and especially for the hundreds of thousands of displaced people in camps, many of whom are children struggling to survive. we will continue to protect civilians in the event of any offensive and to advocate for the protection of humanitarian workers. in areas controlled by the regime, we hear reports of arbitrary arrests and forced conscription. there has been no progress on the liberation of political detainees. corruption is mounting, and the war economy is the main source of subsistence for some people. there can be no european contribution to the reconstruction of syria so long as there is not a political transition firmly on the way. while the syrian regime does not engage in the un-led process, and for as long as human rights continue to be violated, this will not change. as to the return of syrian refugees to their land, the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr) continues to tell us that the conditions for safe, voluntary, sustainable and dignified return are not yet in place. we also need a system to monitor what happens to returnees, to ensure their protection and to influence conditions for return. we won’t ask syrians to go back to a place where they risk arbitrary detention, forced conscription and torture. for all these reasons, we continue to support the political process in geneva as the only just and realistic way to end the war. we cannot afford simply to freeze the conflict. that would be the perfect recipe for more suffering, more radicalisation, more regional instability and more violence. high representative federica mogherini is in close touch with the new un special envoy for syria, geir pedersen, about how best to support him in his efforts. he is currently meeting all stakeholders in order to restart the geneva process. and it is precisely to support the geneva process that, in mid-march, we will co-host the third brussels conference on syria, with the un. the conference will focus on three pillars: support for the political process, humanitarian aid, and the regional development component. our aim will be to ensure pledges to meet the continuing needs of syrians and of the countries that have welcomed so many refugees. this year we will also host, at the european parliament in brussels, a day of dialogue with ministers, international ngos and civil society representatives from syria, lebanon, jordan and turkey. the people of syria are asking for a sustainable solution to the war. they demand a country where every syrian can find a place, beyond all differences of faith, ethnicity, politics and social background. the people of syria need a negotiated political solution that can lead to reconciliation, to reconstruction and to an inclusive and democratic syria. this continues to be our goal as europeans. i thank the european parliament for its support in preparing for the envisaged syria conference.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, syria is back on the agenda of our parliament. we're going into the eighth year of conflict. the crisis is not over, with figures that strike us: 500 000 dead, 5 700 000 refugees, 12 000 000 people in humanitarian emergency, 6 000 000 of them children; atrocious violations of human rights, as the commissioner has just reminded us, and a country destroyed. in a particularly worrying environment: we have the withdrawal of the united states; a consolidation in the country of 65% of the territory with the syrian president and his iranian and russian allies; tensions on the borders with turkey and iraq and, therefore, a very uncertain environment. an environment where all the actors are moving in a new scenario practically of cold war: the united states has sent israel's national security adviser; the presidents of russia, iran and turkey are meeting next thursday in sochi; syria is trying to rebuild its alliances with other partners such as the united arab emirates and jordan. and as for the european union, commissioner, it is very difficult to go beyond our common strategy, to support the international conferences and to mobilise the important resources that we have mobilised, to support the efforts of the special envoy of the un secretary-general and his road map. but, commissioner, is this enough to alleviate the suffering and death of this martyred country that is syria?
madam president, can we really talk about the syrian war as if it were in the past? we have witnessed on our own european soil the human rivers of people fleeing from horror. it is a conflict that is still alive, therefore. it's been a war of great deception. the new and old poles of the cold war have operated in syria at will. both the united states and russia and china systematically nullifying any agreement within the security council. europe has, as always, a sense of responsibility, very close to guilt, to try to alleviate the exodus and the suffering of the syrian people. the point is that after ten years of horror, ancient cities and people - thousands and thousands of people - have literally disappeared from the face of the earth. hundreds of thousands of children have died under russian bombs or under the drones of the international coalition. what's the matter now? this can't end without those responsible being paid. the war has covered up the tyranny of al-assad, but the syrian opposition, which tried to fight for democracy, has not even been remembered. and even the kurds are in danger. i think the third conference on the future of syria is the time to talk about responsibilities. we can't sit around talking about the future as if the destruction never happened. that is what we must ask of this parliament: responsibility. we can't get past this horror without asking for those responsibilities.
madam president, syria is clearly an example of the failure of the international community, but it is also just another example of its hypocrisy. the people who really brought down the islamic state were the kurdish people. and yet now they are being left to their own devices in the face of attacks from the erdogan government and turkey. we are looking the other way from here in the face of attacks on the civilian population and the plundering of the resources of the kurdish people, such as the tonnes of afrin olives that are already illegally on the european market and, in particular, in spain. the european union should lead the political dialogue, the multilateral negotiating frameworks, the promotion of international law, to end the syrian conflict. it is essential that the kurdish people can secure their social and political gains, such as gender equality, by ensuring that they are not wiped off the map, now threatened by the entry of the turkish army into kurdish territory. and in the meantime, the european union should break preferential agreements with its partner, such as turkey, which is cutting off the kurdish population, even outside turkey. everything else - summits, resolutions, fine words - will be buried under economic and geopolitical interests which do not correspond to the interests of the majority of the kurdish and syrian population. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the answer is 'blue card'. well, i think it would be several questions. the first is that when i was talking about the responsibility of the international community and the responsibility of the european union, for example, i was referring to the preferential agreements we have with turkey. secondly, we are allowing olives from afrin, which are plundered from the kurdish people, to be sold by the turkish government on the european market, for example. on the responsibility, also, of the international community, we would have to talk about the different interests that have entered into the war in turkey and that were interests totally spurious to the syrian people or the kurdish people. that's what i'm talking about.
madam president, the syrian conflict is a very complex issue. you can't board it in a few minutes. it is a multifaceted conflict, with many sides involved and the deep involvement of third states is also evident. in this context, i am concerned about the weak influence of the european union, and also of the united states, which has now been further reduced by the announcement of the withdrawal of its troops. in recent times it has become clear that, in addition to the regime in damascus, it is russia, iran and turkey who are deciding. in addition to humanitarian aid to syrian refugees, the european union must have more influence. in syria, it is not just about defeating daesh, it is also about pushing forward a political process that allows the future of the nation to be decided democratically by the majority of the syrian people. it's a mediterranean country, very close. what happens there affects us. i think of the serious refugee crisis of 2015, its enormous impact on the borders of the european union. we need to get more involved and influence in the present and future of syria. and finally, commissioner, i would like to know whether there were any results at the recent meeting of the high representative with the arab league.
madam president, a few days ago the former high representative of the european union for the cfsp, javier solana, published an article entitled 'from assad to assad, going through hell'. the title alone shows the utter failure of a senseless war. in that hell hundreds of thousands of people have burned their lives and many more have lost their futures. the fire of that hell has not been extinguished, but the time has come to think about reconstruction. in the material reconstruction, sure. but especially in rebuilding the lives of the youngest, of those children, millions of children, who have lost their schooling, who have lost their future. the european union must commit itself to a multiannual plan to educate these children not only in humanitarian response but also in development cooperation. that is the fundamental objective we must bring to the third conference on solidarity with syria.
madam president, the war in syria has claimed the lives of over 300 000 people and has created 6.3 million refugees and 6.2 million internally displaced persons. it is the greatest humanitarian catastrophe, without parallel in recent history. the union can and must lead the way in the peaceful resolution of the conflict, but it cannot do it alone. in this respect, it is good news that the third eu-un conference on the future of syria and the region will take place in march. it is necessary to continue to mobilise humanitarian support, in addition to the €1.4 billion from the madad fund, but also political support to accompany the negotiations to reach a peaceful and negotiated solution. the support of the united nations, in line with the provisions of resolution 2254 (2015), is essential. there is talk of a territorial and final defeat of isis, but it will not be a defeat, nor a final defeat, nor an end to the conflict. syria will need the union and the international community, but much, much more involved. safe return is necessary. we have had the peshmerga fighters up here and they have received the support and the unanimous applause of the house. they have the sympathy and support of all of us.
president of the council of ministers of the italian republic. thank you, mr president. the issues raised were varied, ranging from those with a clear european dimension to others which, however, concern more closely the national policy pursued by my government. i am sorry that i cannot answer them one by one, but i will try to group the issues that have been raised. i'll start with a theme that has been crossed a bit and touched by almost all the speeches: the issue of immigration. everyone can have his own opinion, but i would like to remind you of what my government has done concretely, how we have dealt with the issue of immigration and what the reality of the facts is, then everyone will draw the consequences. what we must perhaps not do is to obscure the reality of the facts, of how they have unfolded. from the first moment my government took office, it was fully aware that the issue of immigration was a divisive issue, it was an issue that had overwhelmed our country, with hundreds of thousands of people landing in just a few short years. italy has not been able, with its previous policies, to withstand the impact of migration flows, given our geographical situation. some may forget, but we are in the heart of the mediterranean. so the routes, especially those in central africa, expose us directly to the impact of migration flows. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the former yugoslavia, but that we should be concerned about the situation in the former yugoslavia. let's not face the problem with hypocrisy: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i will not name names, but some, in particular a colleague of mine, a european prime minister, who had a somewhat detached attitude on the subject of immigration, told me after visiting a northern italian city: "giuseppe, i see now that you have a serious problem", after seeing dozens and dozens of immigrants on the streets. how did we deal with it? we have been dealing with this from the beginning in a structural way, we have understood that the emergency situation overwhelms us all, we cannot handle it. and so we have developed a strategy, articulated in six premises, ten objectives that range from the policy to be pursued in dealing with the countries of transit where the migration flows originate, where these routes of hope originate, to the countries of transit, to the problem of european borders - also maritime, attention, which is not the same thing as land borders - to disembarkation, redistribution, returns, and so on. i would like to recall that italy, at the first european council in which i participated at the end of june, played an active part in the conclusions reached, where for the first time shared principles and efforts were discussed, where for the first time the principle was affirmed that those who land in italy do not land in a non-european country, they land in europe. but here's the thing. that once those principles have been affirmed, then the practical translation still to this day is not found. we have had various european councils, but we are not really able to apply these principles consistently. and certainly not because of italy, obviously not because of italy. italy, then, i must assume, has indeed saved europe's honour in the past, but perhaps some people thought that it would continue to save europe's honour in the future. but that cannot be the case, because any state which finds itself in italy's position reaches a point of saturation. the integration mechanisms no longer work, the inclusion mechanisms no longer work, we know that there are difficulties with returns, because returns are not effective, because in many countries, in fact, it is not even possible to ascertain the identity of migrants, their origin, and in any case it is only possible through bilateral agreements, so objectively you cannot even return them. italy has therefore decided to apply a more rigorous policy than in the past. we are saying it loud and clear, and we are saying it loud and clear and transparent: i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr de la malène, for his report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr de la malène, for his report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr de la malène, for his report. there is a problem, a hypocrisy in europe: when the spotlight is turned on the mediterranean, and some ngos are complicit, then a mass media mechanism is triggered, and then it becomes the migrant problem. but we must address the problem of migrants where they leave their villages, where they immediately fall prey to the trafficking of these unscrupulous creatures. do you know how much a path of hope, punctuated by torture and personal violence, costs? i've been around africa a lot. i know what i'm talking about. it's three to five thousand dollars, and sometimes it's not enough. you think, we're talking about very poor people who manage to get this money and then in a moment they're being robbed, defrauded and raped. this is the problem, and it is not just a mediterranean problem. as regards the management of the mediterranean, i would like to point out that italy has always been inspired by the protection of fundamental rights in its search and rescue and rescue operations at sea, and even in the case of the "diciotti" that was mentioned, italy first took the most vulnerable people, women and children, transported them immediately and brought them to land. the fact that, as in the last case, a ship comes to a place where medical care is guaranteed, food supplies are provided and so on, and spends a few days in the harbour, in the italian harbour, does not mean that there is ill-treatment. but it was right, and i think it is right, in the light of the conclusions that all 28 countries reached last june 2018, to demand that a redistributive mechanism works, which it still does not, which cannot but be on that i agree on a mandatory basis. let's get to the point. the safe harbour only works if it's in italy, only if the landing is in italy. this can't be good. safe haven doesn't mean nearest port. that's the first point. secondly: the redistributive mechanism cannot work if there are only three, four, five, six countries, and without an automatic mechanism. everyone must be part of this solidarity mechanism. thirdly: there is a third problem, let us not hide it, even the countries which declare themselves willing to participate in the redistributive mechanism are only willing to do so with those who are entitled to international protection. economic migrants are not wanted, they stay in the country where they land. that's the thing about immigration. as far as the economy is concerned, you have dealt with the subject of the economy of investment and infrastructure. someone said: but italy does not want to make the necessary reforms. please, get to know each other. during the mediation procedure with president juncker, vice-president dombrovskis and vice-president moscovici, i did not ask for a courtesy from the first moment i met them, to avoid the infringement procedure. i brought a big book, which i had translated into english, which contains all the reforms that we have already carried out and those that are being carried out. to say that italy is not prepared to make reforms is simply to ignore what is happening in italy. we have launched, and are implementing, the most comprehensive plan of structural reforms ever devised. (questions and comments by certain members. the president interrupted the speaker.
president of the council of ministers of the italian republic. we have passed an anti-corruption law that introduces the highest anti-corruption standards not only in europe but also internationally. we have introduced a radical reform of bankruptcy. today in italy there is no longer talk of bankruptcy or bankruptcy: the code is called the code of corporate crisis and insolvency. it's a big book, a body of articles. we have introduced a delegation act and are now about to introduce delegated legislative decrees to reform and simplify all administrative procedures and streamline all procedures. that's what my country needs, and that's something that hasn't been done in years. we have a delegation law which is intended to introduce a radical reform of public procurement. we have a delegation act to reform the civil code, the code of civil procedure and the code of criminal procedure. that's what we're doing. and when you tell us that we are against investment, perhaps because you follow the public debate and hear about tav, who is in favour and who is not. but, excuse me, the tav does not mean the infrastructure investment plan in italy. we have a substantial infrastructure investment plan, to which we have added as much as 13 billion from state companies, which were convened at palazzo chigi. we have a national plan: we are presenting a national plan for the security of the territory, a national plan against the risks of hydrogeological disruption, for the modernization of our road infrastructure. i would remind you that we asked the commission for flexibility and we got it in the final stage for over 3 000 million ecu in addition to the investment plan already planned. so, we can have different opinions, democracy is good because when there is a public debate everyone can have opinions, but to ignore all this is to do a wrong to european citizens, not only to italian ones. as for the tav, it is true that it is a project which was also recognised as being of european interest and had already been launched: but this government has felt that it is fair to its citizens especially if you evaluations that justify that work go back more than 25 years update the evaluations, since anyway the work has not been realized yet, it is in the initial stage. so before committing so many resources, before building infrastructure that has such a significant impact on the environment, we decided to do a cost-benefit analysis. we said we would do it in a transparent way, share the results publicly, and take responsibility for the decision that follows. as for the other projects, they are all in progress. tap, the third crossing, the brenner motorway and so on. and by the way, to speed up the investment, we have a plan, which we will make public in the next few days, for all the construction projects underway. a final joke - excuse me, mr president, if i'm wasting my time - but a final joke on foreign policy choices. we are told: political isolation. italy is politically isolated, italy has obstructed venezuela and remained isolated. warning: first of all, italy is not isolated. italy contributed, i would like to remind you of this, and this is a fact, to the communiqué of the high representative, and therefore of the entire european union, of 26 january. it has been acknowledged, even publicly, that my speech was instrumental in that communiqué. warning: many want to anticipate history. caution would be required. we do not know how the venezuelan crisis will develop. italy has clear ideas and is not alone, it is with many other countries. we have clear ideas about the fact that, i would like to remind, for us the presidential elections of last 2018 are not democratic elections. we didn't recognize them. you got it? we also have very clear ideas about the need for new presidential elections and the need to ensure that the conditions are met for them to be held in a transparent manner and that they are credible according to international standards. we want them as soon as possible. we are aware that there is a population that is suffering and so we are pressing for an emergency and we have already allocated resources for humanitarian aid in compliance with international law. we are aware that no regime can be justified if it adopts violence and suppresses dissent and peaceful demonstrations with violence. that said, we do not believe we can crown anyone who does not pass through free and democratic elections. we'll work for it. (applause) i would like to thank we are an active part of the contact group; we are also open to mediation and we warn everyone against the historical responsibility of crowning someone at the expense of another, when we know that the major international crises, from a historical point of view, have occurred because there was a rush to crown one protagonist over the other in the dispute. warning: because that's what polarizes and radicalizes the conflict. it is clear that rushing to crown one actor means allowing other global actors to come to the rescue of the other, and we know that this has created the worst crises that still drag on in history. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i have to say... mr. president conte, why did your government prevent a rescue ship like the open arms from being able to dock in the italian port on june 29, 2018? mr president, i was on that boat, along with eleonora forenza, along with javier lópez and along with miguel urbán. four meps from this parliament. and we were not given an official response, claiming that your minister of transport was prevented from docking at an italian port for reasons of public order. why are they blocking italian ports since then? why do you speak of a europe of solidarity when you are not following any rules, the rules of european solidarity? but what shocks us most is that the part of the government that could have more democratic ideas is allied with the extreme right, with the friends of fascism, with the friends of vox, which is the exact opposite of solidarity europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree, mr president-in-office, that we must stop human trafficking in africa, but i regret that i do not agree with italy's neutral position on venezuela, which has blocked the european union from recognising guaidó. i carry italy in my heart: my daughters are italian, i have lived in italy for over 20 years and i am really disappointed by the italian government, which does not want to see the urgency of stopping the tyrant maduro, who is suffocating the venezuelan people. you just said there's no hurry. go tell that, mr. conte, to leopoldo lópez, to all the tortured, to those who have died, to all the venezuelan immigrants who are in line to enter colombia, to the people who are starving. as edmund burke said: the only thing necessary for evil to triumph is for good men to do nothing.
the rapporteur. mr president, i thank my colleague, david martin, and i also join him in thanking the ambassador of singapore, who has certainly been of great help to us all in the preparation of these reports, presenting us with a transparent and always well-informed picture of the realities of singapore. fifteen years have passed since the council authorized the commission to negotiate an agreement with singapore, and it was time to conclude this procedure. tomorrow we will take a step forward by voting our consent to the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation and to the free trade and investment protection agreements. today, once again, we send a strong message about the european union's commitment to international cooperation and multilateralism, against others - we know who. in a world where international cooperation is being called into question, the european union stands firm and stresses the importance of international cooperation. this agreement with singapore seeks to institutionalise relations which date back several decades and are based on a long history of friendship and close historical, political and economic links. the new legal framework for bilateral relations will provide a strengthening of cooperation between singapore and the european union. the aim is to cooperate on issues such as justice, security, climate change, development - issues that our citizens are very attentive to. i remember the geostrategic importance of singapore. it is an essential player in ensuring stability and regional balance in the asia-pacific region. and the security and stability of the region is important for europe, for european businesses and for europeans. singapore is the gateway to the asian market and a platform for european companies, strategically located between the major economies of china, india and japan. these agreements improve the investment climate and will offer greater certainty to european investors. i would like to stress that, within the framework of this partnership and cooperation agreement, we are going to set up a permanent joint committee, a committee made up of high-level representatives from both sides whose task it will be to work on a daily basis towards the achievement of the established cooperation objectives. we will be privileged partners in decision-making on issues such as international security, scientific and technological cooperation, in sectors such as energy, the environment, natural resources and transport, in particular maritime and air transport. we will cooperate on information society issues and, above all, on cybersecurity. it is important to cooperate on these issues, because it is a global field that knows no borders, and because our companies lose millions in cyber attacks, and together we can anticipate attacks and coordinate that fight. we will also significantly increase existing cultural exchanges, as well as education programmes for young europeans, such as erasmus mundus, and support new business and employment opportunities for our young people. singapore can become that platform for our young people into the asian labour market. i would also like to stress the importance of this agreement for global security and the fight against terrorism. the only way to combat this scourge that threatens our welfare model is to build bridges of cooperation with other countries, to exchange data and information, to stop funding and thus to make terrorist attacks impossible wherever they occur. this agreement means an open window for all european entrepreneurs and companies to establish business relations not only with singapore but also with other asian countries. more than 10 000 companies and entrepreneurs from the european union are based in singapore and use it as a hub to serve the entire pacific region. a stable legal framework is the cornerstone of any partnership agreement. by giving european entrepreneurs and companies legal certainty in their relations with singapore, we are opening up new business opportunities, we are promoting their investments, their growth and expansion. every time our citizens can develop their business ideas and projects freely and safely, we are creating the right environment to boost new jobs. i have already mentioned issues such as climate change, and i want to emphasize this. singapore's geopolitical importance in responding to natural and humanitarian disasters in southeast asia is crucial. the european union will now have a privileged platform to cooperate and participate in the decision-making process of the climate change policies adopted by singapore, contributing our know-how in combating climate change, a key policy of our union. finally, i would like to thank all the other rapporteurs for their help and cooperation in this report, and i am confident that we will be able to approve this framework agreement on partnership and cooperation with singapore by a large majority tomorrow. i believe that this is a great achievement for all of us and, of course, a source of stability, employment and a guarantee for the future, also for our international relations.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, let me start by saying that cooperation between the rapporteur, david martin, and all the shadow rapporteurs has been very good. the clear vote in favour on the free trade agreement that we had in the committee on international trade (inta) last month reflects this excellent cooperation. i also want to thank the ambassador of singapore and his government for their cooperation and patience. i strongly support both the free trade agreement and the investment protection agreement. this is a win—win fair deal for both sides and for both consumers and companies. negotiations between the eu and singapore were launched in december 2009. nearly 10 years later, here we are, finally. singapore is by far the eu’s largest partner in asia, accounting for almost a third of eu—asian trade in goods and services. more than 10 000 european companies have their regional offices in singapore and they operate in a reliable business and regulatory environment. singapore is also a trade and transport hub to asia and a gateway to the major growth economies of the world. this agreement can be a model for other asian countries as it is the first in this region. with regard to the investment protection agreement (ipa), it replaces 13 old bilateral investment treaties between individual member states and singapore. tomorrow, i hope we will vote in favour of a new and modern investment court system. the ipa protects the parties’ right to regulate and to achieve legitimate policy objectives in areas such as public health, safety and the environment. moreover, there is no protection of investors’ profit expectation. furthermore, the investment protection agreement defines fair and equitable treatment, preventing forum shopping and parallel claims, among other things. lastly, i want to recognise commissioner malmström’s efforts to improve dialogue, accountability and transparency. growth in europe comes with trade and not with more public debt. given brexit and trump, multilateralism today is welcome and we should keep going in this direction.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs. the strategic nature of this agreement with singapore, which is indeed the most important trading partner of the association of southeast asian nations and the third largest exporter in the region after china and japan, has already been underlined here. but i would like to stress even more the commitment, as other colleagues have done, to free trade, to fair trade based on rules, in these times of protectionist temptations. i would like to congratulate the commission on its excellent trade policy. it is true that these agreements could have been concluded earlier, but as commissioner malmström says, many times in these times of globalisation it is not just about exports and imports, but increasingly complex production chains where raw materials and components are assembled in a global production chain. so more and better jobs, more opportunities for our citizens and more opportunities for our businesses.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, we are talking about the backsliding of women's rights in europe. in 2014, five years ago, we were debating sexual and reproductive health rights here, and i said at that time, "let's not allow our daughters to have any less rights than our mothers". well, that threat is closer than ever today. poland, with its abortion law; hungary, eliminating gender studies in universities; bulgaria, refusing to ratify the istanbul convention. and you know what the latest occurrence of this new ultraconservative wave is? the leader of the popular party in spain decides that, to ensure the sustainability of pensions, women have to give birth; we have to have children to be able to pay pensions, and that is done by going back thirty-five years and recovering the abortion law of 1985. women receive lower wages, lower pensions; we have difficulty entering the labour market; we are the carers of dependent people; every day there are women killed by gender violence, victims of sexual violence and human trafficking; even women, many times, are afraid to go home alone, and we cannot remain passive in the face of this. there are many reasons today. there are a thousand reasons. that is the campaign launched by women's organizations to mobilise the feminist strike of 8 march, and we, this parliament, must be the loudspeaker to fill the streets with a demand for equality. because this is not a women's issue. this is a fight for a feminist europe that moves forward, that does not give up and that works.
mr president, we are coming out of an economic crisis which has led to a very clear setback in women's rights. austerity has been directly associated with a return to patriarchal patterns and a more unequal society. and now, with the emergence of the extreme right forces, which have a very serious effect on the agenda of certain democratic forces such as the popular ones, we see how there is a very clear attack on women's rights. in some countries, the very existence of laws against violence against women is even questioned, as was the case with the government agreement in andalusia. or the president of the spanish popular, who wants to return to the abortion law of the year 85. what is this? what are we talking about? in a society that is still deeply unequal, to come up with this offensive attack against women. the only answer to that, commissioner, is an ambitious equality agenda, more ambitious than ever. unlock all that we have stopped at the council, go on the offensive with the ratification of the istanbul convention and mobilize in the streets. and i hope that this coming 8 march will be a success of mobilization for equality and women's rights.
mr president, a 16.5% pay gap, a 40% gap in pensions; one in three women having experienced physical or sexual violence or both; only 36% of women in this house, and so on and so forth. the figures are very clear: we are still far from achieving effective equality between men and women. and yet the right is daring to question, in an increasingly uncomplicated and more brazen way, measures which are indispensable to ensure the protection of women's rights. this ultraconservative wave is also present in the spanish state. the neo-francoist right even dares to question the existence of sexist violence. they talk about "domestic violence" and exaggerate the number of false complaints. but, despite these growing attacks on women's rights, the feminist wave is getting stronger by the day. it was seen on march 8th, and we'll see it again in a few weeks.
i believe that we cannot allow the interests, not just commercial ones, of the big pharmaceutical companies and healthcare companies to take precedence over the public authorities' monitoring of the health of citizens in the european union of the 21st century. as we read in the press, as the ombudsman says, as the latest report of the european observatory says, it is impossible to conceal the endless number of meetings between lobbies and the commission. or the countless events, inside this chamber, sponsored by companies also in the health sector. this collusion is seen, for example, in the case of defective breast implants manufactured by a french company, which has been the subject of constant public denunciation in recent years. despite this scandal, other manufacturers still fail to adequately warn of the risks and adverse effects of silicone gel. that is why we shall be dealing with this matter again in the committee on petitions in the coming weeks. the same applies to cancer treatment, which requires a strong, indisputably universal and public health system, with as many means as possible and adapted to gender specificities. we must get the commission to promote the exchange of good practice in the prevention, prevention, treatment and follow-up of diseases, such as breast cancer. secondly, states implementing public health measures must take a holistic view, not only with adequate funding of their health systems to make them accessible and of quality, but also in the framework of control of high-risk health products, assessing their effect on women's health. finally, both the institutions and the countries must make efficient use of the structural funds and all the financial instruments existing at european level to invest in research, development, specialised medical centres and adequate staff.
mrs president, cancer is a disease that makes no difference and affects many women in europe, causing enormous physical and psychological suffering. to all these women, to many of our families, our support. to fight cancer, all women must have universal and free access to public health services, which must not be reduced by austerity policies. this sunday, in my country, 40,000 people were complaining about public services. early detection, treatment, survival support and rehabilitation also with european funds. early detection of cancer is critical with mammograms. and also the human papilloma vaccine, as a team from mexico just pointed out. fundamental research is very important for this detection, as is awareness-raising among girls.
madam president, women live longer, but they live worse. they more often manifest themselves as not having their medical needs covered. the research often does not cover them. one in eight women in the european union will develop cancer, while screening for early diagnosis, between the ages of 50 and 69, varies between countries by between 30 and 90%. other cancers that specifically affect women will cause infertility and a lot of psychological damage. this is why it is necessary not only for the next european union research programme to have a clear gender dimension in health problems, but also for the european commission itself to lead the comprehensive approach to cancer in women in the different countries of the european union, from research to early detection, treatment and also to repair.
madam president, commissioner jourová, an oral question is an instrument of control over the commission which encourages the commission to act on the basis of the resolution we shall be voting on thursday. i have been involved in all the debates on the discrimination suffered by european citizens in their fundamental rights, and particularly by the most vulnerable people and groups. this is the case for people who have been discriminated against, or abused, and even criminalised, because of their sexual orientation. depends on who you decide to love. the lgbtqi community, the transgender community and intersex people too. i therefore think it is important that we look at the best practices of those member states which are distinguished by having a vision, firstly, which does not treat intersexuality or transsexuality or sexual orientation as a pathology, but which, moreover, does not impose a forced gender on transsexual people through medical, surgical or pharmacological practices. i remember the lunacek report, which we voted on in 2014. it proposes a global vision of the rights of people based on their sexual orientation, transsexuals and intersexuals. this is the path we invite you to follow.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank you for this interesting debate and let me just briefly conclude by assuring you that the commission will continue to support activities that increase scientific understanding and help develop clear and constructive advice in this area.
in writing. it is important to differentiate between recreational use and therapeutic use of cannabis. it is obvious that cannabis is not a panacea, but it does have therapeutic properties for the symptomatic treatment of some diseases. take chronic pain, which i think is often medically neglected. cannabis is used as an adjunct to painkillers and other drugs that do not alleviate pain on their own. on the other hand, we must not trivialize the risks of cannabis use. according to the who expert committee on drug dependence, its use can cause adverse effects such as dizziness and impaired motor and cognitive function. more pharmacological, preclinical, toxicological and testing research is needed to ensure the quality, safety and efficacy of the medical use of cannabis and its cannabinoids are monitored, as well as studies to identify the potential risks associated with their use. the legalization of therapeutic uses in medicine should also be studied.
madam president, great scientific advances have always given rise to great debates from the point of view of ethics, and that is precisely the limit of these great scientific advances, the ethical limits, for it to be a quality science. selecting embryos, the traits they should have, selecting embryos on a menu, of course, is something that is scientifically unacceptable, but clearly we also have to separate it from the advances and opportunities that the next revolution may bring us, such as gene therapy, for the treatment of possible monogenic diseases, or even stem cells, which are already being used today in the treatment of cancer. so, always against the misuse of science, but not to block the opportunities that, as i say, in the near future genetics may bring us. i am holding this debate precisely because that is what we need: to discuss the ethical framework that will have to regulate this new discipline which today is giving way to numerous treatments and numerous opportunities.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for your views on this ethically and scientifically highly sensitive issue. as i have stated earlier at the start of this debate, the commission will keep exploring the subject, which will surely reappear in the near future.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i wish to thank you for raising this issue. the council has taken good note of the question and of everything that has been said today and i can reassure you that it will stay high on our agenda.
first vice-president of the european commission. – madam president, also on behalf of jyrki i want to thank you and the members for offering us the possibility to present our reflection paper on the european union’s road to sustainability from now until 2030 and beyond. sustainable development starts and ends with people. it is about upholding our way of life and upgrading the well-being of our children and grandchildren. it’s about equality, a healthy natural environment and a thriving green and inclusive economy. our starting point in moving towards a sustainable european future has to be the 17 comprehensive and interdependent sustainable development goals the world agreed upon and committed to in the united nations in 2015. these goals offer the most comprehensive and universally accepted framework to guide our work for the years to come. our core challenge for the next decade is to find a way to develop economically, continuously improving our living standards and well-being for the benefit of all, without depleting our natural resources, destroying and poisoning our environment and spurring climate change. what we need is an economy that grows within the limits of our planet and delivers prosperity to the many, not the few. to achieve these goals and to get there requires some fundamental changes in our production and consumption patterns. there are certain key game changing policy areas we in the eu have already started to deliver on and need to continue to prioritise. we need to move from a linear to a circular economy. we need to put our food system onto a fully sustainable path. we need to future proof our energy, buildings and mobility. but we will only truly be successful if we make these changes in a socially fair manner, putting strong social policies in place and making sure we leave no one behind. that’s the only way you can get everyone behind this policy. to do all that we also need to gear the so-called horizontal enablers towards a green and inclusive economic transition. these include education, science, research, innovation and digitisation, as well as finance, taxation, pricing, so that sustainable products and services become the most affordable ones, including responsible business conduct and fair trade policies. good governance is key as the very foundations we build on are the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights. this is of course a global issue, especially now when others are questioning their commitment. we need to continue to be the strongest advocate for sustainable development in a multi-polar world, in a world based on multilateralism. this is also in our own competitive interest. the eu is at the origin of many of the most innovative and comprehensive sustainability solutions. we are best placed to be a first mover, blaze a trail for the rest of the world and reap the social and economic benefits of the sustainable transition while helping to shape global standards. (applause)
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, we all know that there is no planet b, thus there is no plan b, and we have to take the sustainability challenge seriously. but the positive thing is that sustainability is anchored in the eu treaties. it’s part of our dna. delivering on the sustainable development goals (sdgs) is not just a necessity, it is also a huge opportunity. it is about modernising our societies, about new forms of doing business and consuming, about reaping the benefits of new technologies and innovation. it’s about our future competitiveness. we already see that it is possible. the past years have shown that gdp growth is compatible with the reduction of co2 emissions. it is not about lowering our living standards but about being smarter about our resources. of course this requires a significant amount of investment. here, the investment plan can play an important role in bringing the private sector on board. the action plan on sustainable finance will provide investors with comprehensive information on what is sustainable investment and create a new market for it. the circular economy is another area where we can create a new market. we have started to do so with plastic waste, other sectors should follow. to be successful, the transition needs to fulfil some conditions. first, we need to invest more in education and training to ensure equal opportunities and fairer societies. second, we need to invest more in research, development and innovation, and also digitalisation, in particular in artificial intelligence. this has a huge potential, for example, in health or agriculture and europe cannot lag behind in this field. third, the rule of law and respect for fundamental values. we have recently seen worrying signs of leaders calling the very foundation of our democracies into question. the reflection paper is also a call to the rest of the world not to get tempted by easy solutions that may solve symptoms in the short term but that do not address the causes of our problems. we will continue contributing solutions, together with the rest of the world, in multilateral forums and through development cooperation, the external investment plan, as well as through open and rules-based trade. i am convinced that good cooperation between the commission, member states and the honourable members of this house can provide and strengthen the leadership of europe in sustainability.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, mr vice-president, first of all, i would like to thank the vice-president of the commission for attending the joint meeting of the development and environment committees last thursday to present the reflection paper entitled 'towards a sustainable europe by 2030'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this respect, there are two options, and i want to give two clear examples. one, related to target number six, over water. the framework directive provides for the obligation for the commission to submit an evaluation report on the directive by 20 december 2018. it's february 13, 2019 and we still haven't heard anything about it. the best regulation also involves complying with the provisions of the directives, both by the member states and the commission. another path, however, is that followed by commissioner arias cañete, who put us in a leading position on objective number four, the fight against climate change, before, during and after the cop 21 in paris. and today more than ever, this leadership of the union must be the global benchmark as the way forward for all countries on this planet, which 'certainly' has no plan b. rhetoric and aesthetics or action and commitment. it's two different paths. one makes headlines, the other makes results. the way the union will go to meet horizon 2030 will depend on our institutions, which will be elected by the citizens in the elections in may.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, with this reflection paper the european commission is trying to sell us a green motorcycle again, a deception. it explains that the european union - and i quote verbatim - is well placed to be a world leader in the transition to sustainability, or that it has been a pioneer in this field. but if we look at the proposal in more detail, we see that the european commission's first concern is economic growth, but understood as the benefits that transnational companies can derive from this economic reorientation. for example, 'let's talk about agriculture', the first thing the commission says is that it can create new economic value of more than eur 1.8 trillion by 2030 and, if anything, contribute to the recovery of natural resources; but at no time is there any question, for example, of the large-scale use of pesticides that was discussed this week in this house, or the fact that the common agricultural policy favours large farms more than local and organic farming. nor is there any question of insufficient energy targets. in fact, with the data that eurostat has recently pulled out of its hands, it doesn't seem so clear that we are going to reach the common target of 20% renewables by 2020. i don't know, man. as i said at the beginning, the commission is either selling us a green motorcycle or it is selling us smoke. but the truth is that the root of the problem is not being attacked - a voracious and unsustainable economic system. the solution is to put the ecological transition under the umbrella of the interests of people and the planet, and not the sacrosanct economic growth. you can't fight climate change without those responsible for it losing their privilege.
madam president, in the implementation of the sustainable development goals, there is still a lot to be done. the failure to achieve the objective of sustainable production and consumption or the sustainability of the oceans, seas and their resources is unacceptable. even in the energy sector, where we can proudly say that the european union has managed to decouple emissions and economic growth, we have to admit that emissions have risen again in 2017. you can't fool yourself. the only path to development is social and environmental sustainability. and meeting the sustainable development goals is a moral imperative. the preservation of the planet requires decisive action, without pause. this is urgently needed to avoid the worst consequences of climate change.
in writing. today, our economic system, the way we produce and consume, is leading us to a serious environmental crisis. social and environmental problems are interconnected and lead to injustices that always affect the most vulnerable. we socialists propose a profound economic, social and ecological change, framed in the united nations' 2030 sustainable development goals. we believe that this change must focus on five areas: empowering people as citizens in democracy, not just as consumers, from the local to the european level, and as members of trade unions and civil society organisations; changing and limiting capitalism to ensure that private economic activity considers social and environmental impact and contributes to a better distribution of wealth and income; achieving social justice with no one left behind; generating ecological and social progress; facilitating change in eu governance and working methods to achieve a sustainable and equitable europe, with a new governance framework for sustainable development, setting out a set of binding policy objectives that go beyond the strict fiscal objectives of the stability and growth pact.
in writing. today, our economic system, the way we produce and consume, is leading us to a serious environmental crisis. social and environmental problems are interconnected and lead to injustices that always affect the most vulnerable. we socialists propose a profound economic, social and ecological change, framed in the united nations' 2030 sustainable development goals. we believe that this change must focus on five areas: empowering people as citizens in democracy, not just as consumers, from the local to the european level, and as members of trade unions and civil society organisations; changing and limiting capitalism to ensure that private economic activity considers social and environmental impact and contributes to a better distribution of wealth and income; achieving social justice with no one left behind; generating ecological and social progress; facilitating change in eu governance and working methods to achieve a sustainable and equitable europe, with a new governance framework for sustainable development, setting out a set of binding policy objectives that go beyond the strict fiscal objectives of the stability and growth pact.
in writing. today, our economic system, the way we produce and consume, is leading us to a serious environmental crisis. social and environmental problems are interconnected and lead to injustices that always affect the most vulnerable. we socialists propose a profound economic, social and ecological change, framed in the united nations' 2030 sustainable development goals. we believe that this change must focus on five areas: empowering people as citizens in democracy, not just as consumers, from the local to the european level, and as members of trade unions and civil society organisations; changing and limiting capitalism to ensure that private economic activity considers social and environmental impact and contributes to a better distribution of wealth and income; achieving social justice with no one left behind; generating ecological and social progress; facilitating change in eu governance and working methods to achieve a sustainable and equitable europe, with a new governance framework for sustainable development, setting out a set of binding policy objectives that go beyond the strict fiscal objectives of the stability and growth pact.
in writing. today, our economic system, the way we produce and consume, is leading us to a serious environmental crisis. social and environmental problems are interconnected and lead to injustices that always affect the most vulnerable. we socialists propose a profound economic, social and ecological change, framed in the united nations' 2030 sustainable development goals. we believe that this change must focus on five areas: empowering people as citizens in democracy, not just as consumers, from the local to the european level, and as members of trade unions and civil society organisations; changing and limiting capitalism to ensure that private economic activity considers social and environmental impact and contributes to a better distribution of wealth and income; achieving social justice with no one left behind; generating ecological and social progress; facilitating change in eu governance and working methods to achieve a sustainable and equitable europe, with a new governance framework for sustainable development, setting out a set of binding policy objectives that go beyond the strict fiscal objectives of the stability and growth pact.
in writing. today, our economic system, the way we produce and consume, is leading us to a serious environmental crisis. social and environmental problems are interconnected and lead to injustices that always affect the most vulnerable. we socialists propose a profound economic, social and ecological change, framed in the united nations' 2030 sustainable development goals. we believe that this change must focus on five areas: empowering people as citizens in democracy, not just as consumers, from the local to the european level, and as members of trade unions and civil society organisations; changing and limiting capitalism to ensure that private economic activity considers social and environmental impact and contributes to a better distribution of wealth and income; achieving social justice with no one left behind; generating ecological and social progress; facilitating change in eu governance and working methods to achieve a sustainable and equitable europe, with a new governance framework for sustainable development, setting out a set of binding policy objectives that go beyond the strict fiscal objectives of the stability and growth pact.
in writing. today, our economic system, the way we produce and consume, is leading us to a serious environmental crisis. social and environmental problems are interconnected and lead to injustices that always affect the most vulnerable. we socialists propose a profound economic, social and ecological change, framed in the united nations' 2030 sustainable development goals. we believe that this change must focus on five areas: empowering people as citizens in democracy, not just as consumers, from the local to the european level, and as members of trade unions and civil society organisations; changing and limiting capitalism to ensure that private economic activity considers social and environmental impact and contributes to a better distribution of wealth and income; achieving social justice with no one left behind; generating ecological and social progress; facilitating change in eu governance and working methods to achieve a sustainable and equitable europe, with a new governance framework for sustainable development, setting out a set of binding policy objectives that go beyond the strict fiscal objectives of the stability and growth pact.
in writing. today, our economic system, the way we produce and consume, is leading us to a serious environmental crisis. social and environmental problems are interconnected and lead to injustices that always affect the most vulnerable. we socialists propose a profound economic, social and ecological change, framed in the united nations' 2030 sustainable development goals. we believe that this change must focus on five areas: empowering people as citizens in democracy, not just as consumers, from the local to the european level, and as members of trade unions and civil society organisations; changing and limiting capitalism to ensure that private economic activity considers social and environmental impact and contributes to a better distribution of wealth and income; achieving social justice with no one left behind; generating ecological and social progress; facilitating change in eu governance and working methods to achieve a sustainable and equitable europe, with a new governance framework for sustainable development, setting out a set of binding policy objectives that go beyond the strict fiscal objectives of the stability and growth pact.
in writing. today, our economic system, the way we produce and consume, is leading us to a serious environmental crisis. social and environmental problems are interconnected and lead to injustices that always affect the most vulnerable. we socialists propose a profound economic, social and ecological change, framed in the united nations' 2030 sustainable development goals. we believe that this change must focus on five areas: empowering people as citizens in democracy, not just as consumers, from the local to the european level, and as members of trade unions and civil society organisations; changing and limiting capitalism to ensure that private economic activity considers social and environmental impact and contributes to a better distribution of wealth and income; achieving social justice with no one left behind; generating ecological and social progress; facilitating change in eu governance and working methods to achieve a sustainable and equitable europe, with a new governance framework for sustainable development, setting out a set of binding policy objectives that go beyond the strict fiscal objectives of the stability and growth pact.
in writing. today, our economic system, the way we produce and consume, is leading us to a serious environmental crisis. social and environmental problems are interconnected and lead to injustices that always affect the most vulnerable. we socialists propose a profound economic, social and ecological change, framed in the united nations' 2030 sustainable development goals. we believe that this change must focus on five areas: empowering people as citizens in democracy, not just as consumers, from the local to the european level, and as members of trade unions and civil society organisations; changing and limiting capitalism to ensure that private economic activity considers social and environmental impact and contributes to a better distribution of wealth and income; achieving social justice with no one left behind; generating ecological and social progress; facilitating change in eu governance and working methods to achieve a sustainable and equitable europe, with a new governance framework for sustainable development, setting out a set of binding policy objectives that go beyond the strict fiscal objectives of the stability and growth pact.
mr manscour, you had 30 seconds, but you spent more than a minute and did not finish your question at the end. so i imagine mr. briois will have little to answer for. however, i would be entitled to speak. would you like to intervene, mr. briois? - i know. all right, mr joulaud, it is your turn.
mr president, that famous article we are talking about, article 15, says, among other things, that the commission may suspend all or part of the payments of programmes when the council decides that a member state has not taken effective measures to correct its excessive deficit, or when the council decides that a member state is not complying with the macroeconomic adjustment programme. this is unacceptable. this article and others like it cannot be corrected, only deleted. and the proposal he is presenting to parliament is still forceful, and that forcefulness means cuts to the citizenry, again always in the pockets of the weakest. it means strengthening the council's and the commission's control over the regions and municipalities. this is unacceptable. we have just seen what the european union has done with greece. then they are apologized for with a small mouth, and now a new regulation is put on the table which increases the power of the council and the commission to punish us. we are voting to make it easier for european funds to reach citizens, not to make it easier for you to tighten your belts and to punish them.
mr president, cohesion policy has been, is and will be one of the fundamental policies of the european union. territorial cohesion: achieving equal opportunities for europeans, regardless of the territory in which they live. and that policy must be adapted to new challenges, it cannot be static. and that is the work we have done in this parliament: cohesion which is able to adapt to the demographic challenges facing europe today. because there are regions in europe that are losing population, castile and león, for example, one of the regions that is losing the most population in all of europe, one of the oldest. we need a cohesion policy that is able to promote population consolidation, to give women and young people opportunities, to create alternatives for the future and for employment. and we must not resign ourselves to creating population deserts in europe, because we really need cohesion policy to be able to give our territories opportunities to guarantee the future of the rural environment and the regions that today need europe's support.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their work in bringing this report to fruition. i welcome the fact that parliament is committed to more funding for something as important as cohesion. i also welcome the increase in the cofinancing rates in line with the amendments which i had tabled with my colleague, mr ramón luis valcárcel, who is currently the president of the commission. i would like to focus on the special case of a small number of regions, including galicia. these regions, because of the economic crisis of recent years, are being downgraded for the new financial framework, but according to our estimates, they would also suffer a significant reduction in funds if the criteria of annex xxii were applied exclusively. i would have liked, commissioner, to have seen the demographic criterion more clearly in this annex, as i have been calling for in this house over the last few years. i would like to return to the exceptional case of this group of regions to which i referred earlier. in the case of galicia, it would go from being a more developed region to a region in transition, and yet its european funding would be severely reduced. this is contrary to the principle of cohesion and to any principle of equity. the people's group therefore wanted to establish a safety net by means of amendment no 429 to prevent these regions hit by the crisis from being punished in terms of financing. the aim is to guarantee them an allocation equivalent to that for the period 2014-2020. i thank mr novakov and mr van nistelrooij and mr ramón luis valcárcel for their efforts to get this amendment supported by my group. it's about avoiding an unfair situation. and i would also like to thank the support of other groups that i know are going to support this amendment.
mr president, if there is a debate which gives meaning to the europe of solidarity, it is precisely the debate on cohesion, on the cohesion funds. because there is no other political priority than that which is reflected in the budgets. and when we have to deal with growing demands, climate change or demography, which is so important in a community like galicia, it is necessary for parliament to defend a strong regional development policy, without cuts and that helps to heal the wounds of a time of crisis. that is why it is very important for my region, for galicia, that this be adopted with the amendment tabled by the pp, amendment no 429, which our group supports. i want to tell mr millán mon that when it comes to defending the interests of galicia, mr millán mon, we are here hand in hand.
mr president, commissioner, the presidents of the balearic islands, corsica and sardinia have sent you a letter in which they state the need for these mediterranean islands to be treated and financed in the same way as the outermost territories. the balearic islands are situated just 200 kilometres from the mainland coast, but their citizens, their economy and their businesses suffer from the geographical disadvantages of being an island. however, the allocation of european funds, cohesion policy, does not take account of this cost of insularity and its consequences for sustainable development and social cohesion in these islands. in fact, in recent years the balearic islands have not converged with the european average in terms of cohesion and competitiveness, but on the contrary, have moved away. it is therefore essential that cohesion policy in the next budgetary period takes account of the special situation of the mediterranean islands and helps to mitigate the effects of insularity.
mr president, commissioner creţu, in this joint debate on the new european legislation on the regional and cohesion funds 2021-2027, the european parliament has done its job. first, by increasing the commission's proposal by 14% to eur 380 billion. secondly, by guaranteeing at least 30% for climate objectives, also introducing equality, non-discrimination, gender equality, and even a children's guarantee fund of up to eur 6 billion. but i am particularly pleased that the funding for the outermost regions, including the canary islands - the community where i live - has been maintained at a co-financing rate of up to 85%, with no reduction in the previous allocation for 2014-2020, and with a 3% increase in the interreg programme, which is of enormous importance in the outermost regions. the only thing that is missing is that this parliament should vote against the maintenance of macro-conditionality, which means in practice punishing those countries which are having the most difficulty in their regional policy instead of encouraging them. i hope we can defeat macro-conditionality in the vote on this regulation!
mr president, commissioner crețu, there are three fundamental elements in this debate on cohesion: the demographic criterion, precariousness in work and the re-centralisation of funds. my country, galicia, is losing, losing because of the demographic issue. the galician youth migrates because there is no work. it's not just a crisis problem, it's a problem of inefficient governments that don't respond to the supply of jobs. my country has lost three billion euros in this period of cohesion funds. in addition, there is the problem of depopulation and the cost of services, for example in rural areas with an ageing population. precarious employment is the norm, and of course the re-centralisation of funds, as is the case with the european social fund. on the other hand, the erdf too, as was the case with the serious problem of water sanitation. this is the right time, commissioner, to decentralise european funds, not to make european funds conditional on macroeconomic criteria which overwhelm us. it is time to stop talking about triumphalism and start talking about equality.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to speak first in romanian, my mother tongue, to clarify a few matters. first of all, i want to thank you all for your support and for this very fruitful debate on the common regulations on the regional development fund and other european funds. of course, i have also received criticism of the commission's proposals and i appreciate that constructive criticism. of course i do not appreciate those criticisms coming from people who clearly do not know the regulations, do not know the treaties to which the european union is party and obviously we certainly take them all into account, but i think we have to start from the basic idea, which is that the commission makes a proposal which you approve or not and which is subject to debate by the european parliament and the council as co-legislators. i want to remind you, some of you, actually just a lady, that the election campaign starts on april 26, 2019 and we are not in an election campaign. on another note, i would like to say to those who are critical of the budget allocated to cohesion policy that, because of brexit, you know perhaps even better than i do, we have a decrease, we will have, unfortunately, a decrease of 10% per year in the budget of the cohesion fund, and our whole battle has been to maintain this cohesion policy which is the most visible policy, the most tangible in people's daily lives. despite the fact that we are facing this brexit process, despite the fact that for the first time the european union is being called upon to adopt a security fund, a defence fund, it is the first time the european union is being called upon to give money for border security, despite all these aspects, cohesion policy, for the first time in the history of the european union, will have a budget of 373 billion euros, the largest budget within the total budget, of which 80 percent, more than in the current programming period, will go to the least developed regions. so let's stop misinforming the public: over 80% of cohesion funds go to the poorest regions. there are countries like spain, greece, italy, romania, bulgaria, that because they have not been able to get through the economic crisis and because of the economic downturn, they're going to have economic growth, increases in allocations, and other countries that have had spectacular increases -- we're after nine years of continuous economic growth in the european union -- they're going to have decreases in allocations, and these decreases are coming from the fact that gdp per capita -- gross domestic product per capita -- is higher than it was seven years ago. so it's not about any penalty, it's not about any decline, it's just about acknowledging the economic growth that has taken place in these states. that was about the budget. regarding the visibility of our policy: i agree with everything that's been said here, especially what our dear colleague, derek vaughan, said. of course we are all sad that britain is leaving this european project, but it is a lesson that we have to learn, because the european union has contributed enormously to the inclusive development of this country: cardiff subway, london subway extension, also the university of manchester, so we have a lot of examples of projects that are not known. this is in addition to the fact that the founding father of this policy, the first european commissioner for regional policy - his name was lord thomson - is the one who together with italy and the uk government called for the establishment of this cohesion policy in solidarity when the mines in wales were closed; but of course, perhaps those who voted for brexit now in this region didn't know that their parents and grandparents had jobs because of these european funds that helped their region's economic development. so i will pass now into english. i would like to thank warmly the rapporteurs we're talking not about the commission proposal, we're talking about your report. i would like to thank you, ms krehl and mr novakov, the committee on regional development and all of you. thank you very much for your high-quality work, for your hard work, for your efforts and, of course, you know very well that we count on you to move the legislative package forward. thank you very much for everything. i think that our proposal lays the foundation for a quality and effective policy. you know very well that we have worked so much together to strengthen, modernize and simplify this policy, and now we are facing into new challenges, which are the trilogies. as you will vote on this report today, we can start the trilogues between parliament and the council as co-legislators and, of course, i will represent the commission. we must get the package through in a timely manner, while maintaining the quality of the proposals. you know very well that according to our studies, we would have liked to have this agreement before the european elections. it seems that it will not be possible during the romanian presidency, but i hope at least by the end of the year to have an agreement on the multiannual financial framework (mff), on the budget because, according to our estimates, more than 100 000 projects from 27 member states will not be able to be finished on time if we do not have an agreement this year. as i said, unfortunately, it seems that it's impossible to be ready before the elections, as we foresaw one year ago. so we have several challenges. the first challenge is maintaining a strong strategic focus, and partnership agreements are essential to this. our new policy objectives are essential too, and thank you for all your support here. i would like to underline that, in the new partnership agreements that we will start to negotiate with each member state in march, you will be able to raise your problems. for example, the problem of decentralisation which was raised by meps marinescu and buşoi, and the problems of islands which were raised by the representative of the balearic islands. so it is up to the member states whether or not they include in the partnership agreement, and in the operational programmes, how to earmark the money and who will be the beneficiaries. for instance, i know that you referred to the three regional hospitals in romania. we can't decide from brussels who will be the beneficiary of a project, it's up to the government to decide. but keep in mind that we will start negotiations on the partnership agreement and operational programmes in march 2019 and i hope ngos, members of the european parliament and everybody involved will have a strong dialogue with each government so that these local needs that you spoke about are kept in mind. on simplification: we are very keen on that, you are aware that i was in favour of radical simplification and, as you know, we have proposed 80 key simplifications. the challenge lies in both directions maintaining the simplifications but resisting over-simplification. simplification is not a goal in itself. our goal is a quality, effective policy, making life easier for beneficiaries, of course, but we cannot allow over-simplification which reduces the project's quality or value-added and i count on your support here too. also we have to bear in mind realistic co-financing. let's remember, as i said, that today's eu co-financing rates are exceptional because they were increased for the economic crisis. moreover, our proposal for the co-financing rates means greater local ownership and in the end it also means greater total funding and a greater boost to development. the financial challenge we have is, as i said at the beginning, the budget. we have discussed various proposals to increase and protect the cohesion policy budget. i understand very much and i appreciate your support for the policy. in conclusion, we have a window of opportunity, an opportunity to make progress. the negotiators' mandates for the trilogues cover substantial issues strategy programming, management and control together these make up more than one-third of the regulation and on these issues i see a convergence of interests, so i believe we can make significant progress. remember that progress has no risk. we are all going to enter into the trilogues, the first one for cohesion policy will be on 19 march, knowing that nothing is agreed until everything is agreed. progress on this issue, the issue of convergence, will provide clarity for managing authorities and beneficiaries. let us seize this opportunity. once again, thank you to all of you, but first of all to ms krehl and mr novakov.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to inform the house that the report we are about to vote on, ladies and gentlemen, is a response to the debate which mr juncker raised two years ago, when he proposed a series of scenarios for the future of europe. the european parliament's response to that debate is largely contained in this report, which also includes the contributions made by the heads of state or government who have appeared before this house. i would like to take this opportunity to thank president tajani for an initiative which was very appropriate for this parliament, and i would also like to thank elmar brok, maite pagazaurtundúa, pascal durand, barbara spinelli and fabio castaldo, who have been partners in this report. and i simply wanted to say, ladies and gentlemen, that if there is a summary of what we are going to pass here today, it is that europe has to do together what we can only do together. the idea is a broad line of greater and better integration for the future of europe.
mr president, i wanted to express my satisfaction at the adoption of parliament's position on such an important piece of legislation as the common provisions on the european structural funds: the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the emff and the cohesion fund. i am particularly pleased that there is an increase of 14% on the commission's proposal. it is not fair that the new policies, the new objectives, should be tackled by cutting back on the agricultural policy and the cohesion policy. that is why i am pleased and i shall vote in favour of this proposal from the european parliament. i also think that the parliament's proposals are right that the funds should contribute 30% to the objectives of combating climate change, and that there should be a greater allocation of resources by the member states to deal with brexit, and i am very pleased that article 15, the economic macro-conditionality, has been definitively closed by this parliament.
mr president, i voted today in favour of excluding macroeconomic conditionality from the cohesion funds because, in addition to suffering the consequences of austerity, our people will suffer even more consequences from the imposition of the deficit, after public services have been reduced following the mandate from brussels, whether it be health, services for the elderly or labour policy, which affects many people in my country, galicia. i also voted for safety nets so my country doesn't lose funding for the change of category. but the funds are not enough. the trilogues could once again be decisive in preventing inequality, particularly economic inequality.
mr president, even if the macro-conditionality has been removed, i am voting against this report because there is no clear change in the orientation of the funds. there is no clear shift to support the productive sectors in my country. there is no clear shift in support for small and mediumsized enterprises. there is no clear shift to support public health or education systems. on the other hand, if we continue with these budgets, dismantle the public pension systems, we will continue to reduce public service and fatten the interests of capital. these are the reasons why i voted against this report.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, one of the keys to strengthening the european project is to rebuild its social vocation. the president of the basque government, 'el lehendakari', said to the community authorities in bilbao: 'it is time to devote at least the same effort to rescuing people as we have devoted to rescuing banks'. the resources we need for this come from our tax systems. the first condition for taxation to serve the redistribution of wealth created by development is that it be fair and progressive. the second is to stimulate the real economy and to penalize financial speculation. and, also, be efficient in collecting. to contribute to this from the european level implies at least control, coordination and transparency between tax administrations. it is essential to tackle tax fraud and tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. and to maintain a consistent stance on tax havens. it is also urgent to complete the harmonization of the interest rates on corporation tax, and i would add those on capital gains. these are both tools that countries use to get taxpayers. they contribute to the delocalization of taxation of the place where profits are made and they undermine cohesion policies. but they also reduce tax revenues as a whole. they are the source, along with the depth of the crisis, of many of the cuts that have affected social spending across europe. subsidiarity also applies to taxation. bringing the responsibility for revenue closer to the power to spend is a great tool for preventing deficits and stimulating the real economy. because spending power is going to depend on revenue. proximity also prevents corruption and makes solidarity, as a collective action, a more consistent practice. the basque concert and the navarre convention have been demonstrating this for decades and could be an excellent laboratory for designing the functioning of a european ministry of finance. finally, the european institutions can do much to steer public spending towards investments with social and european value. but they need more own resources to make their operations to promote and co-finance public works with european added value, programmes to support the real economy or social convergence and cohesion, decisive. that is where european sovereignty begins. i therefore think it is a good idea that the financial transaction tax should contribute to this.
mr president, this has been the legislature of the great tax scandals: the panama papers, the paradise papers, luxleaks, the cum-ex scandal and many others. the free movement of capital, the existence in the union of genuine tax havens such as luxembourg or malta, and the impunity of the big banks make the european union a veritable paradise for tax evaders: a great corridor for tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering. but this paradise is only within reach of the gods of the market and of great fortune. instead, citizens face increasingly regressive and increasingly abusive indirect taxes, precarious employment, ten years of cuts and austerity. in the meantime, in the european parliament we only adopt recommendations and the european institutions adopt measures and directives purely cosmetic. either we take fiscal justice seriously or the public will lose what little trust it has left in these institutions. we have to take a stand for fiscal justice.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, i begin by reiterating my recognition that a european proposal for a health technology evaluation agency is timely and would make more europe. it is true that the european rules on medicines developed since 1965 in the wake of the thalidomide disaster have made a major contribution to improving health standards in the european union and that we also believe that there are areas for improvement. the european medicines agency evaluates and approves medicines on the basis of efficacy and safety, without regard to quality in terms of effectiveness or added therapeutic value. you might even consider that someone like me might not be ethical, and that it might put a burden of sustainability on health systems. but the fact is that parliament, echoing the citizens, wants to guarantee access to medicines and health technology. high prices in the context of the crisis were the trigger for these difficulties in access, but there is also a mismatch between research and medical needs, and more quality is also needed. there is an incremental excess of research at the expense of genuine innovation, some studies put the figure at 85%. moreover, even the high prices of medicines do not go hand in hand with the high therapeutic value added in many cases. in the case of cancer drugs, which have seen their price increase by more than ten times, only 15% of them have shown an increase in 5-year survival. member states have been conducting this quality assessment as part of the pricing and reimbursement process. since 2003, the european commission, through eunethta, has funded collaboration between these to approximate criteria, methodology, improve and increase clinical evidence and establish the clinical value of health technology. in addition, advances in genetics, the latest medicines for ever smaller populations, advanced therapies or the technology itself require ever more demanding clinical evidence, and in any case sufficient to be able to make decisions about it. however, despite the positive view of the member states of this voluntary collaboration, they have not made use of it. the european parliament also considers it necessary to deepen this collaboration and move to a stable scenario, with a regulated procedure and public funding, which improves access to health technology for european citizens, contributes to the sustainability of health systems and increases the quality of research, also aligning this research with the needs of patients. the european commission has presented us with a proposal for hta, justifying it by the need to improve the functioning of the internal market and thus the predictability of industry. even if there may be distortion in the internal market, this cannot be the main objective of the proposal, since this distortion may also largely correspond to the conception of the medicinal product itself as a consumer good and governed by the laws of the market. however, this regulation is not necessarily opposed either - and it may be able to contribute to such an improvement in the competitiveness of industry by stimulating quality innovation and improving the efficiency of research. the position of parliament has been to give a response, in my view quite balanced, to all these challenges that i have raised and, above all, to seek the necessary confidence in the process, guaranteeing independence, transparency, objectivity, scientific quality and external validation of the whole procedure. this allows the member states to play a clear leading role and to exercise control through their national evaluation agencies. and ultimately, ensuring that, while the clinical evaluation may be global, the decision is ultimately local. member states will be able to carry out their own reassessments to adapt them to their national contexts, within the national competencies of the pricing and reimbursement system, which includes specific clinical criteria as well as social, ethical and economic criteria, removing doubts about possible negative effects on the sustainability of national health systems, as we have been shown. at the same time, it opens up new areas of collaboration in emerging sectors in health such as precision medicine or the divestment of obsolete technology. in short, as i said, it is a balanced, timely proposal that guarantees patients and national health systems. so, in my view, necessary. what is needed now is a constructive and dialogue-oriented approach on the part of the member states, to which this parliament has always been open. otherwise, it may block the discussion needed to improve access to health technology for patients in the european union. it is not good to adopt an obsessional, anti-competitive attitude, without dialogue or alternatives on the part of certain countries, which can only lead us to repeat previous experiences with other health dossiers that only end up with the result that the only ones who end up losing are the patients. this parliament has worked hard and fast to be able to close this dossier in this legislature and to send a very important message to the european citizens, who have been asking us for improvements in access to medicines, to health technology; who have health among their priorities, as the eurobarometer repeatedly demonstrates, and who will be evaluating us in the coming months at the ballot box. i therefore call for a constructive position on the part of the member states in order to be able to close this dossier and give the response that european citizenship is asking us to give.
mr. president, the 2018 sakharov prize finalist, nasser zefzafi, leader of the rif people's movement, is seriously ill in prison and is not allowed to have adequate medical assistance. i think it is part of the european parliament's commitment to human rights and to a sakharov prize finalist to demand that the moroccan government immediately release him so that he can be treated by doctors, so that his family can be given medical treatment, so that freedom can finally be given to political prisoners in the rif.
mr president, the analysis and monitoring of foreign direct investment may be necessary on certain occasions and in specific sectors of particular importance. but the reasons set out in this report do not seem to us to be the right ones or to be in the right direction. a dangerous foreign investment is one that can shut down factories or affect a sector in such a way that jobs are harmed. a dangerous foreign investment is one which encourages polluting and environmentally harmful practices and which, of course, does not respect social responsibility. when the european union protects, it unfortunately does not do so with workers in mind. however, this instrument focuses on security and defence as the only argument for declaring how relevant a share purchase or an acquisition is. selective protectionism to avoid investment from countries that are not friends of the european union is not the way to protect those who really need it, which are none other than the workers.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, once again let me congratulate the rapporteur for her work and her dedication, and also the shadow rapporteurs for their support in the negotiations. coming back to some of the points which were raised during the debate: we spent quite some time debating whether this regulation should be extended to all currencies of the eu, but the point is that only euro transactions are the same everywhere, on the basis of the single european payment area (sepa); and only euro transactions benefit from the efficient payment infrastructures and processes that are available to all banks in the eu directly or indirectly. in the case of the euro, we have already created the infrastructure, and what we can do, with the regulation, is basically to make sure that banks are passing on the efficiency of this infrastructure to the consumers. but we do not have it for all currencies in all cross-border situations. let me stress again that this legislative initiative is a good opportunity to remove fundamental inequality among eu citizens and to unify the single retail payments market. this is of tangible benefit to europeans in their daily lives, so let’s make it happen.
member of the commission. – madam president, buses and coaches provide an affordable and clean public transport service. those services can be complementary and not in competition with rail services, linking regions and cities which are not well connected by railways. in this context, the proposal presented by the commission as part of its second mobility package aims at improving the mobility of eu citizens within member states, while increasing the sustainability of national transport systems, offering an attractive collective transport alternative to the use of private cars. the proposal will lead to an increased offer of domestic services that are more responsive to citizens’ needs, in particular for those on lower incomes. it will also bring economic and social benefits, with increased investment and job creation in this sector. let me recall some key figures and benefits associated with the proposal by 2030: cumulative co2 emissions savings of eur 183 million, accumulated administrative savings of eur 1560 million, an increase of about 11% in coach transport activity and 85 000 new jobs. the commission generally supports the report by your rapporteur, mr zīle. i would like to thank him for his hard work and the quality of his report. i would also like to thank the committee on transport and tourism (tran) as a whole for its support for the compromise amendments. we believe that many of those compromise amendments add valuable detail and clarity to the commission’s proposal. this is, in particular, the case regarding the role of the national regulators and for public service contracts granted with an exclusive right. it is indeed very important to have a strong regulator in all member states to carry out the necessary economic equilibrium tests and to deal with possible appeals. likewise, it is essential that we find the right articulation between public services and those provided on a commercial basis. i believe that mr zīle has managed to get the balance right – to protect public service contracts adequately while at the same time allowing commercial offers to flourish. on certain points, such as on the administrative burden on operators and on the definition of bus terminals, we fully understand the good intentions behind the compromise amendments, but we believe more work is needed. to conclude, i believe you have a very good and promising report in front of you, which will contribute to improving bus and coach services to the benefit of eu citizens. so i’m very much looking forward to the constructive debate tonight.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on 22 january the committee on transport approved a dossier which has two objectives: the necessary liberalization of the sector with the existence of models in some states which give pre-eminent importance to the provision of public services. and the bus, ladies and gentlemen, is the most social mode of transport. it makes it possible for citizens in any corner not to be isolated. the proposal aims to facilitate access for non-resident carriers to the market of another eu country to offer intercity coach services. at the same time, it ensures that carriers offering national intercity routes benefit from further liberalisation of the european bus market. this is a good balance between liberalisation and protection of existing public service contracts. it has allowed me to secure a clear majority in this house. international liberalisation is leading to a more integrated european union and will also lead to a fairer and more competitive market. but at the same time, we are not ignoring public service contracts which in some countries are working efficiently, as is acknowledged by meeting a degree of satisfaction that is recognised by all surveys. interestingly, some opponents accuse the dossier of being overly liberalizing and not including public services, and others say it falls short. your honours, neither of those. it is a balanced text which allows systems as different as german, french and irish to coexist. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not affected by the introduction of new technologies, and that the market is not affected by the introduction of new technologies. so i think, ladies and gentlemen, that the rapporteur has done a very good job, and i commend him. and i think that the alternative speakers have tried to contribute to this. i hope that tomorrow's vote will reflect this work of all of us.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, thank you for putting forward the proposal. we agree with the principle that competition improves the services and prices received by users, but we are also opposed to the disruption of systems which, when open to competition and awarded in a transparent manner, function and enable a public service which could not otherwise be provided. that principle applies in my member state to the granting of licences for bus transport. it is a practical expression of public-private partnership. it allows a part of the operating results of the most profitable routes to support the service of the routes that are not profitable; it enables a public service of high social value. that is why we are going to support the concession system of the spanish state in this report. it makes buses the most accessible, if not the only possible, transport service for many europeans. i would like to thank mr zīle for his efforts to understand this reality and to thank mr de grandes and his team for their work in explaining it. i ask you to support this system and this report, because it supports the citizens who, far from the urban environment, are a hope for the strategy against the depopulation that threatens a large part of the european territory.
madam president, i would like to thank mr zīle for his work and, above all, for the listening and flexibility he has shown with regard to the demands of so many different bus systems, which are so important for countries like mine, like spain, where the orography and the border blockade of the railways make them so socially necessary. and we have arrived - i think mr van de camp has not been very well informed - through the work of both mr zīle and mr kouroumbashev, to whom i pay tribute, at a protection of the spanish concession system, because we have arrived at a system which reaches everywhere, even the most remote places with fewer people. it comes with quality buses that are increasingly competitive in terms of emissions. which comes, moreover, with affordable prices. it is also capable of accepting and maintaining the work of its drivers. it is clear that we must improve, but for that we have the first mobility package, which we will also be able to improve. and so it's a system that maintains itself and protects itself against any other possibility. we are therefore very grateful to mr zīle, and especially to... (the president withdrew the floor).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the liberalization of bus transport proposed by the commission is putting at risk an important service of general interest in many member states. it is a 'short and sticky' of french and german laws, which gives way to private monopolies like flixbus and the uberisation of the bus sector. the commission should draw inspiration from the models that are working, such as the spanish, irish or austrian; ensure the status of public service and that the routes that are least profitable in monetary terms are also covered. it is a question of social profitability and territorial backbone. we are defending a competitive bus sector, managed by the public administration, which gives priority to the interest, the strategies of public interest connectivity and territorial cohesion; the good frequency of services; affordable prices; good training and working conditions for drivers; maximum safety for users and, in short, defending the public service, expanding its scope, and leaving no one behind.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i come from a town in spain which claims to have the biggest river in the country, the ebro, and i can still remember the impression i got when i drove from brussels to cologne on the rhine and saw what the river motorways really are. i still get the chicken. i understood that this was truly something extraordinary that had to be preserved and supported. and, in fact, after enlargement, we went as a delegation from vienna all the way to the black sea, following the danube, and we also realised the needs of this great river, this great european river motorway, and the need it has precisely for this relationship of cross-border capacity, dialogue and improvement. and, within the limits of what is possible, in spain, despite everything, we have an application of the naiades programme in the river port of seville, which we want very much and which we think is very important. that's why our support is so important in this naiades program. we have taken care of it - i think - in the connecting europe facility, and whatever its improvement, its approach to the environmental part, but letting the rivers that are managed continue to be managed, is fundamental. we therefore support your decision to continue strengthening the naiades programme.
opinion of the committee on petitions. mr president, in the committee on petitions we have been working for the past few months on a text which reflects citizens' complaints about the conditions for the transport of live animals in the union and which reflects the serious shortcomings in the application of the regulation on the transport of animals. the report contains three main points of concern: the systematic violation of the rules requiring adequate transport conditions for live animals, especially for medium and long distances, which undermines legal equality between member states; the absence of reliable data on the conditions of transport and control of vehicles carrying livestock; and, finally, the continued impunity and lack of sanctions in many states. in the end, the consequences of this lack of control over the application of the law are not only manifest in flagrant cases of animal abuse, but also in unfair competition between animal transport companies, clearly permitted by certain countries of this union, and in a lack of control over conditions which ultimately affects the health of european consumers.
mr. president, every year over 400,000 animals are transported alive. and many of them, too many, on long distances without food or water and in extreme temperatures. unnecessary suffering which the people's party and the socialists have refused to investigate in this house, as we european greens ask them to do. the commissioner, the current european regulations on animal transport are totally inefficient and do not even guarantee that their own standards are being met. as a result, the number of checks has been halved in 2007 and the number of non-compliances has doubled. commissioner, it is time to force the member states to fulfil their obligations and to stop allowing further abuse. it is time to limit the transport of animals and to ban it when it does not guarantee their welfare. equo, the european greens, will continue to work to end animal abuse, whether in transport, in factory farming or on large farms. no more animal abuse.
mr president, in chechnya, that is to say in that part of the russian federation, there is a persecution of human rights activists and of the media, who are trying to report freely and, in many cases, without success, on the intolerable attitudes of the chechen regional and national governments. the case of oyub titiev is a bloody one: he was framed by the chechen authorities in an illegal process which has landed him in prison, as we all know, on false charges. the european union, and the european parliament too, cannot look the other way and must call for the immediate release of oyub titiev. and the european institutions must also address the russian authorities to protest against these illegal detentions and the lack of fair trials, as well as the violation of human rights that is taking place on that territory.
author. mr president, i have to say that sometimes the double standard we have in relation to our external action becomes unbearable. we are now dealing, and many member states are dealing, with what is a genuine theocracy, which has an institutionalized system of discrimination against women and which, on top of that, arrests their activists and maintains a system of male guardianship towards them which is absolutely incompatible with any democratic values. and so i think that this parliament and the european external action service must be much more forceful in denouncing the human rights violations that are taking place in saudi arabia. we want a clear statement in defense of the activists. we must demand their release, an end to torture, an end to sexual abuse when they are detained and also, more generally, in relation to our relations with saudi arabia, we must demand that countries strictly adhere to the code of conduct on arms exports and that we cease our arms trade relations with this country once and for all. so it is urgent that we rethink our foreign relations with what is a true theocracy.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, saudi arabia, which is a preferred partner for many member states, is notorious for being one of the countries where repression against human rights defenders is fierce, even leading to the imprisonment and execution of human rights defenders. they try to present a modern image and remain anchored in a feudal, machista and misogynist structure, marked by the legal protection of men over women in all areas. we therefore call on the saudi authorities to end their campaign of terror and release all imprisoned human rights defenders and to ratify all international human rights instruments. you who demand so much from some countries, you never hear the same demand for saudi arabia. finally, to ask the council to respect the common position and to have all member states implement an arms embargo on saudi arabia immediately. i would remind you, commissioner, that the commission itself has put saudi arabia on the list of countries at risk of terrorist financing and money laundering.
i voted in favour of this report, mr president, because, beyond making a precise diagnosis of the effects of patriarchal policies on women, it focuses on the need to reverse the policies of austerity and cuts which have caused so much pain to citizens in general and to women in particular. it also proposes financial measures and mechanisms for their implementation. but i also want to remind you that progress is achieved through collective construction and organization. together we are stronger and stronger, especially in the face of the hateful messages that the far right poured on us. about the speeches of those who want us as reproductive machines in the service of the system. that's why on march 8th we'll go on the feminist strike, as we did last year. together, diverse, organized and increasingly in more and more parts of the planet. because we have reasons. that's why we're going on strike.
mr president, this parliamentary question, this question debated in the house on the use of cannabis for therapeutic purposes, has caused some controversy on the net. people who advocate the legalization of cannabis, both for therapeutic use and for personal use that each person wants to give it "for recreational uses" sometimes we are not understood. and so i want to give an explanation of vote in the sense that the european commission has an opportunity to support quality research on cannabis-based medicines, but also has an opportunity at this moment to look at the funding for research in this area in the ninth framework programme. in this respect, as we see that the member states differ in perception, but also in legislation, it is a great opportunity that must be seized, as uruguay has done or as canada has done.
mr. president, humanity advances when it protects all human beings equally. i voted in favour of this report so that the rights of lgbti people are protected equally throughout europe. and to pass the anti-discrimination directive, which has been blocked in the council so far. lgbti people suffer a lot because they are attacked, stigmatized, invisible, unrecognized. they need to be protected because they are attacked for their identity, diversity, sexual orientation or characteristics. that is why i am in the lgbti intergroup of the european parliament, to fight for their equality. hate attacks by fascist groups have increased, although these are deprecated by the catholic church and by more conservative groups, who paint the rainbow design, the old woman's bow. members of my party's youth organisation will have to pay 3,000 euros, because to make themselves visible is also to attack. i would like to express my support for new galicia in the european parliament.
mr president, we voted on a very interesting report today. a report of this parliament's own initiative, which calls for something as logical as compliance with the law. it is now 14 years since legislation was passed to regulate the transport of live animals both within and outside the union. fourteen years later, it is parliament itself that is raising its voice to demand that these measures be implemented, which should alleviate the unspeakable suffering suffered by no less than one billion animals a year. a billion beings who feel, who suffer, who suffer. can you guys get a sense of that? is it too much to ask that the law be enforced, monitored and punished for those who do not comply with it? what do we legislate for then? animal welfare legislation is a simple face wash? i understand that this neoliberal europe, which is now letting people who are fleeing war die at sea, is not the europe that will save us from the animal hell into which we have turned this world. it is not acceptable under any circumstances for us to export live animals to countries like turkey or uzbekistan, not only because of the enormous distances and terrible conditions of the journey, but because outside there are no measures to reduce suffering at the time of slaughter. why do we set rules in europe but allow our animals to be slaughtered outside anyway? i can only find one answer: "it's the market, my friends". no more hypocrisy. if the rules are not applied, it is simply because they are not wanted. because the industry doesn't want to. and although we voted for this report, no, we do not like this regulation, because it is too unambitious. we are millions of people already who are asking for more, because an environmentalist, feminist and animalist world is making its way in the face of this era of desolation that capitalism has brought us, which turns everything, even life, into a commodity.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, george orwell said that we have fallen so low that to reformulate the obvious is the first obligation of an intelligent person. the debate about clean air and the need to live in unpolluted environments corresponds to this state of unquestionable obviousness for all. according to the european environment agency, air pollution is responsible for 422 000 premature deaths every year. the economic impact is considerable: 4 billion in health expenditure and over 3 billion in lost crop yields. the environmental impact is likely to be even greater if we take into account facts that are difficult to quantify: the impact of acid rain on soils, the loss of biodiversity caused by pollution, the pollution of water resources, and so on. the causes of these processes are well known. the first and foremost of these is road and city traffic. it is indeed worrying to know that more than 76% of the european population lives in cities exposed to pollution levels above the maximum permitted levels. we share and support the commission's efforts in this area, through the 'clean air for europe' programme, but the reality of the data shows stubbornly the shift away from the initial prospects in a clearly negative direction. it is up to the states, the regions and especially the local authorities to increase their efforts in this area. but when we come to the point where the authorities are committed to this issue and are prepared to fight against air pollution, the usual interests emerge and the political representatives of those interests. for example, madrid. the opposition and hostility being shown to the plan a project to combat pollution is truly deplorable. the popular party, which governs the community of madrid, is opposing the reduction in pollution by 20.4%, which has already been achieved in the first month of the plan's operation. we are certainly in a situation where we must move from friendly statements to facts, from empty declarations to compromised public policies, and point to those who serve the interests of industries and are also indirectly responsible for the death of almost half a million europeans every year.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the humanitarian disaster in venezuela has already crossed the boundaries of tragedy to enter - for some days now, they are already five - in a situation in which they are without electricity as a result of the calamitous management of the venezuelan kleptocracy. we have gone from a tragic situation to a situation of absolute abyss, and this parliament cannot be blind to the situation of a country so close to us. that is why we are calling for a debate with a resolution on the crisis and the emergency situation in venezuela.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i wish to say that our group supports mr nart's proposal. a hundred hours without electricity means no food that is not expired and no medicine that is available. i would add that when the motion for a resolution is drafted, my group will propose that sanctions be severely increased against nicolás maduro and all his drug collaborators.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, the european solidarity corps in its new version as a single window that brings together all the possibilities for young europeans to participate in solidarity programmes is a reality that we will be proud of in a few years' time. a great idea, as was the erasmus programme, because it will level the playing field in terms of access to these programmes and because it will make it possible to make better use of the resources we devote to them and will encourage a more comprehensive and objective assessment of the impact of these activities on the people who benefit from them. the most noble values on which our union is founded will thus be systematically made a reality. our young people will contribute to the cohesion of our society, they will help people who need them, they will know other realities that will make them more aware, more solidarity, they will be vaccinated against stereotypes and prejudices, and they will acquire skills that will help them as citizens and in their employability. i therefore agree with the need to improve the definitions of solidarity and volunteering and to increase dissemination measures by applying to the task the means that best reach the young. i also advocate improving the quality and accuracy of the certifications that participants obtain and i propose that this concept, 'participants', include accompanying persons who highlight the civil organizations that make the operation of this program possible. their role is crucial to success and is a double exercise of solidarity with the final beneficiaries of the programme and with the young people who participate in it.
mr president, as the parliament's permanent rapporteur on humanitarian aid, i welcome this regulation on the european solidarity corps, which is an addition to the humanitarian initiative that has been in place since 2014. i think there are two camps that are coming together or meeting here. on the one hand, the need to respond to the growing humanitarian crises in the world - most of them caused by man as a result of wars, clashes, but increasingly as a result of climate change: droughts in large parts of the world, hurricanes, floods, fires of all kinds. and, secondly, the need to build a sense of belonging - of solidarity - among young and not so young people in the european union, who can intervene to alleviate suffering in all these fields where there is a need for humanitarian aid. i have heard it said before that this is an erasmus, and it has been said in a derogatory way. erasmus is one of the best things the european union has built. but this is not an erasmus. erasmus benefits young people, who have an educational opportunity. this is a solidarity of young people with other people who are in need. the difference is not minor. the difference is absolute.
member of the commission. – madam president, indeed, it was very good to feel the broad support across the chamber for this initiative. the european solidarity corps has been a very successful initiative. if you want to keep the pace and the success of this initiative, we have to step forward and we have to start the trilogues in order to keep this success for the next multiannual financial framework. i again express the european commission’s readiness to start the trilogues as soon as possible, and i ask you to help our partners during the trilogues and let’s make this success story a sustainable success story. let me once again thank ms šojdrová for her report and let me commend your work and your support in this project.
in writing. the european solidarity corps was one of the best ideas of this legislature. it is an initiative that reinforces our core values and focuses on the future of europe, which is the young people. in times of growing danger from selfish ideologies and nationalist temptations, we cannot pass up the opportunity to pool european solidarity and aim for a future of greater cooperation based on principles. working together will enable us to develop a clearer awareness that, in a diverse continent, we are facing common challenges for all of us, such as protecting the environment, integrating immigrants, preventing natural disasters. this project is a success for the young people themselves, with over 93 000 registered across europe since its launch in 2016. i am sure that taking part in any of their solidarity projects will contribute to their personal enrichment and enable them to better integrate into the workforce. for this reason, i am pleased that the initiative has a higher budget for the period 2021-2027, now at eur 1 260 million. i am very pleased to have been involved in the improvement of the european solidarity corps.
member of the commission. – mr president, this debate and this week’s vote are very important, as mr de castro has said, not alone for what they represent but for what they will deliver. what this debate and the vote represent is an acknowledgment that, for far too long, the farmer and other smaller operators in our food supply chain have been disadvantaged by their relative weakness; but, more importantly, what this debate and the vote will deliver is protection for these farmers and suppliers of agri-food products further downstream. many members of this house have been consistent and vocal in calling for greater protection for the position of farmers in the agri-food supply chain – and rightly so. without that influence, i have no doubt in saying, today might never have happened. i am pleased therefore that the commission – and, of course, a very good commissioner for agriculture – could finally, and for the first time, response positively with a legislative proposal to ban certain unfair trading practices. before reflecting briefly on the contents of the directive on which you are about to vote, i want to congratulate the rapporteurs for parliament and the austrian council presidency for their efforts in reaching these landmark achievements – particularly mr de castro, for parliament, and ms köstinger and the austrian team on behalf of the council. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and all the other committee people who have been involved: mr tarabella, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection; ms mcavan on behalf of the committee on development; and ms pilar ayuso on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. i would include, as well, the shadow rapporteurs, ms mcguinness and ms mcintyre, and maria heubuch, elsi katainen, matt carthy, marco zullo and jacques colombier. all of you have played a remarkable part in ensuring that we are discussing this milestone legislation here this evening. it’s worth recalling, as mr de castro has done, that only eight months passed between the adoption of the commission’s proposal in april and the conclusion of the political agreement in december, so it demonstrates very clearly that if there is the political will a lot can happen in almost all respects in this house. it will now be up to the member states to transpose the directive, and i want to assure you that the commission will follow this process carefully and closely and i trust that this house will do so as well. the final agreement is one that safeguards our initial objectives and our rationale behind the legislation, which is to protect the weak from possible abuses of buyer power by the strong. for the first time, rules will be introduced at a european level that target unfair trading practices and provide protection for all eu farmers, as well as most agri-food businesses, against practices that are contrary to good faith and fair dealing. the directive will introduce a minimum eu level of protection against unfair trading practices that occur in the food supply chain. that level will apply in all the member states – which will remain free to go further, subject to internal market rules. for the first time, there will be a ban on 16 unfair trading practices which are imposed unilaterally by one trading partner on another. other practices will be permitted only if they are subject to a clear and unambiguous upfront agreement between the parties involved. the agreement that we reached in december will apply to anyone involved in the food supply chain with a turnover of eur 350 million, with differentiated levels of protection provided below that threshold. it is important to see this directive as part of a wider initiative to strengthen the position of farmers in the food supply chain. indeed, the agricultural markets task force, under former minister for agriculture cees veerman, called for a better legal framework on producer cooperation, as well as improved market transparency. i am pleased to be able to tell the house, and to be able to report to you, that we have also achieved significant progress in these two areas through the omnibus regulation, in which parliament was instrumental, including with the involvement of mr de castro and mr dess, and through the development of our market observatories. as you are aware, the commission is working too on a proposal to extend our transparency initiative to cover the processing and retail sector end of the food supply chain and i expect to be in a position very shortly to announce more details of this initiative. together, these three policy adaptations will allow farmers to seize greater opportunities as they present themselves in a market-orientated environment, and to defend themselves against market failures. in conclusion, can i reiterate my appreciation to all the members of the house, to the rapporteurs in particular, and to the austrian presidency, which has shown very strong support for this initiative that will protect not only the interests but in some cases the very survival of our farmers, as mr tarabella has said. nobody in the food chain has anything to fear from this legislation if they are behaving fairly.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr president, commissioner, farmers are undoubtedly the weakest link in the food chain and we had to protect them. if we want sufficient agriculture and food self-sufficiency for the european union, we had no choice but to protect farmers because, as the distribution is very concentrated, agricultural production is very atomized and needed support. i therefore want to congratulate the commission on having made this proposal, and also the council and mr paolo de castro, as well as all the alternative rapporteurs who have been able to carry it forward. although the european parliament's position was much stricter than what we finally achieved, i think we are going to reach a very good agreement for farmers and for agriculture in general. in spain we have a food chain law and i can assure you it works very well. it is true that some objectives have not been achieved - such as the inclusion of loss-making in the list of prohibited practices - but others have been achieved which you yourself mentioned and which are very important. i therefore congratulate parliament, congratulate myself and congratulate all of us, because this was an important need and today we are finally going to give it an answer. many years ago mrs mcguinness led a working party which has finally borne fruit.
mr president, as everyone has said, we are in luck. it's a great initiative. i would like to congratulate my colleague, paolo de castro, all the alternative rapporteurs from the committees on agriculture, the internal market, consumer protection and the environment, and i would like to congratulate commissioner hoogan in particular because, after ten years, some more, for the first time a commissioner for agriculture dares to put forward a directive of this kind in the college of commissioners. others have not been able to. so it has a value that is fair to recognize. we have lived a great fallacy. the big fallacy is that the chain was fine because it had to contain prices for consumers. that's all lies. the chain is distorted, there are unfair trading practices that must be corrected and therefore the weakest must be protected. this is how it's gonna be done. and you know, mr commissioner, mr paolo, today we must send a message to everyone: 'europe is on the side of farmers and consumers'. so far it has not been possible. so let's put aside this fallacy of other sectors and get to work. this is the beginning. we need to make further progress on european legislation, but it is a great start.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, improving and facilitating the exercise of the european citizens' initiative is a contribution to democracy and the necessary bringing citizens closer to european affairs. it is good news that many of the improvements introduced in this report to make the exercise of this right more useful, accessible and simple have come from the citizens themselves. i also say this because i have seen very closely the process followed by one of these initiatives, minority safe pack, which has obtained the minimum number of signatures required in 12 member states to be submitted for consideration. what i propose is a response to the difficulties i experienced so closely. i hope that the improvements will increase the number of initiatives that are proposed, the number of citizens involved in promoting them and the number of those that are accepted. it is a good idea that initiatives should be the subject of public hearings in parliament, debated in plenary and a motion for a resolution produced. it is also good that the deadline for proposers to gather support and for the commission to accept or reject proposals is made more flexible. the commission has also proposed that the platforms and technical resources available to the proposers be improved. it would be a good idea to adapt its language regime to the cultural diversity of the union. the speakers of minority languages who claimed respect for them in the minority safe pack found that the available tools were not offered in those languages which are official in several regions of the member states. it's a matter of sensitivity and proximity. i therefore ask that the regional and local level play a leading role in promoting this instrument of citizen participation and that it can help to promote this type of issue.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we have been working on the european citizens’ initiative (eci) for the past four years. the first drafts could not count on the approval of my group, greens/efa, since they were really weak. now we have come to a final text, which improves enormously on the old ones – even if it is not completely satisfactory. first i would like to underline the good outcomes of our negotiations even if i repeat things already said by my colleagues. one, now there is a possibility for the organisers to be registered as legal entities. two, translations of the annexes of the ecis are included with a reasonable restriction in the number of characters to be translated for free. three, it will be possible for partial registration. four, organisers can choose on which date to start. five, it is possible to collect emails for the purposes of information on a particular eci. six, all eu citizens will be able to sign an eci no matter where they reside. seven, an extremely important point is the expected follow-up: the european parliament will make two follow-ups: one after the hearing and one after the communication from the commission. it is of the utmost importance that the european parliament gains this presence and intervention. i have to mention a negative point in relation to what mr lamassoure said on this point. individual online collection systems will only be allowed until the end of 2022 but not beyond this date. that’s the reason why the ngos protested, some of them very strongly. in any case, we also resent very much the backwards step of not allowing the individual online collection system to be available indefinitely. but at the end of the day if we take a comprehensive look at the file, if we consider gains and losses, we have to accept that the global proposal of the eci regulations means a very important step forward. that’s why i commend to my group to ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i think that the agreement to be voted on is an interesting agreement because it significantly improves the mechanism of the citizens' initiative. firstly, because it allows the states, including the european commission, to help those who take the initiative. secondly, because there is an official online signature collection system. thirdly, because more time is given for the collection of signatures. fourthly, because the member states can amend their laws so that people over 16 can vote and can support initiatives. and i would also like to stress the importance of the european parliament organising a debate on such initiatives. in my view, the short life of citizens' initiative in europe needed reform. the ones that have now been agreed with the commission and the council are good, and i think that this will help to bring about more initiatives and better citizen participation from now on.
mr. president, we have 11 years left to act on climate change, say international scientists and thousands of young people in the streets, the very young people the right refused to invite this week. they're afraid they'll leave their classes to give us a lecture. the greens have reopened the doors of parliament that you closed to them and here they are, in parliament, demanding political action on the climate emergency, because there is still time for a transition that is green, fair, fast, participatory, creative and ambitious, that creates opportunities without leaving anyone behind and that gives a future to our youth. this friday there will be a 15-m climate across europe and we had better listen and act because otherwise, as greta thunberg says, we will be remembered as the biggest villains in this story. and i refuse, because i want to be able to look my daughters in the eye.
mr president, last week a very, very right-wing spanish group, vox, obtained permission from president tajani to organise an event in the european parliament. a few days earlier, the same president had banned an event by catalan presidents torra and puigdemont for apparent security reasons. so far, the president has not responded to our legitimate request to see the aforementioned security reports. the ones who need more security are those from vox, who in that session threatened a flemish mep, who was really scared, and who were told 'you and i will beat this one'. to see that the president of parliament trusts vox more than the democratically elected catalan presidents alarms me if it is a harbinger of a darker future in this house. i hope not. i hope that we can live here with other leaders, with other criteria and, of course, with less accepted and recognized far right. but i don't know if we'll have that much luck.
mr president, a year ago we condemned in this house the murder of psol councillor marielle franco. a year later, we still have no justice. this was not just any crime, it was a preview of the homophobic and racist threat that is shaking brazil today. we demand that the authorities ensure an impartial investigation and identify the masterminds of marielle franco's murder. we demand an end to violence and political persecution in brazil. we demand protection for the rest of the social and political leaders in brazil persecuted for defending the interests of the popular classes. the brazilian state must be responsible for the security of all political representatives and human rights defenders. defending justice for marielle is ensuring that no more of her fellow students are assaulted or killed. we in the european parliament want to join in the cry of 'marielle is here!'
mr president, the murder of a woman yesterday in my country has changed the subject of my statement because women are standing up to the world as they did on 8 march, when millions of women took to the streets to remind us that our rights are non-negotiable, to defend them and to fight against inequality. we are the daughters, granddaughters, sisters, neighbors and friends of those who suffer gender-based violence. we live in a world of prejudice that discredits our word. we live on alert when we go home alone. we suffer from the labor cause because we're women, we get less pay and less recognition for our work. our bodies are political because they want to decide for them, for us. they want to make us invisible and silence our voice like they did the two women murdered last week. this is gender violence that some political parties want to deny. and the european parliament must continue to call for investment in the fight against gender-based violence.
mr president, let us look at the following examples: european central bank: one woman on the executive committee out of five men, and one woman on the general council out of twenty-nine men. european banking authority: all candidates for the presidency are men. the single resolution board: all the male candidates. the single supervisory mechanism shall be headed by a male member. three european supervisory authorities: also chaired by a man. it is clear that power structures are unequal and it is clear that there is a gender imbalance in banking and financial services, specifically in their executive positions, and it is also clear that one of the values of the european union is gender equality and the gender perspective as a value and a horizontal principle. equality means more democracy. equality means safeguarding human rights. that is why it is so important to break down stereotypes, which our colleague mr sośnierz has not understood. we must break stereotypes and educate against stereotypes, and then we will have a fairer society, a society which is also economically equal. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the answer is 'blue card'. mr sośnierz, it is a disgrace that you have a seat in this parliament, the home of peace and european values. that's my answer.
mr president, let me begin by making the strongest possible rejection of the words i have just heard that if men cannot be interpreters, women cannot be drivers. what kind of sexism and cheap machismo is this that we have to hear sometimes in this house, really. on the matter that concerns us. as my colleagues have said before, it is not possible for european financial institutions to be run by men. the situation at the european central bank is very clear: two women from 29 countries on its governing council. now, in addition, mrs nouy and mrs lautenschläger, who occupied important positions, are going to leave and we are going to replace them with men. we have asked the council so many times in the committee on economic affairs to send us joint lists of candidates so that we have a margin of choice, which is shameful. and after what is happening in european society, with the mass mobilization of women on 8 march, this is something that can no longer be tolerated. so if this parliament wants to exercise its rights and if we all agree, what we have to do this week is to block the appointments and ask for another proposal to be sent to us.
mr president, commissioner, what has happened with these appointments to the union's economic institutions shows that we have not heard the call for equality that european women made on 8 march. it grows every year because we don't learn. when we celebrated the 20th anniversary of the euro, only men spoke. then i wished that in twenty years it would not happen the same, but we are going the wrong way. equality is fairer, it is more democratic, but it is also more cost-effective. we're cutting off talent, we're missing out on potentially great candidates. they exist, we have to think about them and propose them. it's smart, but it's also mandatory. that's why we have to block these appointments. last march 8th, i received an image on my phone that said it all. think of the professional career as an athletics track: in the men's street there are no obstacles; in the women's street there are washing machines, clothes dressing machines, children, children's school appointments, household chores... our hundred yards are never free, they're full of fences. that's the first problem we have to solve. we need laws, self-criticism and commitment... (the president cut the speaker off)
prime minister of the slovak republic. – mr president, i should like to thank you for the opportunity to take part in this debate about the future of europe. it is a real honour and privilege for me to be here today, as this democratic house represents all european citizens. human history is driven by a desire to achieve ideals and create a better future. this is exactly what was at the birth of the european union 60 years ago. it is what started democratic changes 30 years ago in czechoslovakia. we were driven by ideals of peace, prosperity and unity. the project of the european union brought peace to europe and it brought us stability, freedom and prosperity. it brought us success – even to smaller countries like slovakia. dámy a páni, slovenská cesta späť do vyspelej európy sa začala v roku 1989 túžbou po slobode, demokracii, ľudských právach, ekonomickom a technologickom pokroku. pred pätnástimi rokmi sme sa vrátili tam, kam sme vždy patrili –do západoeurópskeho a transatlantického hodnotového priestoru prostredníctvom integrácie do európskej únie a nato. následný slovenský príbeh bol mimoriadne úspešný. ale nebola to vždy ľahká a priamočiara cesta. museli sme prekonať éru ekonomického prepadu a transformácie. museli sme bojovať s vysokou nezamestnanosťou, zvládnuť rekonštrukciu bankového sektora i štrukturálne zmeny v našom hospodárstve. vybudovali sme demokratické inštitúcie v novej slovenskej samostatnej štátnosti, prekonali sme aj obdobie demokratickej krízy a zvládli sme náročné kritéria na vstup do nato a európskej únie. rozširovanie eú v rokoch 2004 až 2013 bolo klasickou ukážkou obojstranne prospešného „win-win“ procesu. nové členské krajiny získali perspektívu modernizácie a rastu, staré členské krajiny rozšírili zónu stability a získali väčší jednotný trh. slovensko je dnes plnoprávny člen európskej rodiny. patríme medzi krajiny s najvyšším rastom hdp v eú, sme stabilným členom eurozóny s relatívne nízkou nezamestnanosťou a z vysťahovaleckej krajiny sme sa za posledné roky zmenili na krajinu, do ktorej viac ľudí prichádza, než z nej odchádza. a zmenila sa aj celková atmosféra v krajine. naši občania sú slobodnejší a bohatší, no aj náročnejší na úroveň politického života. tento potenciál využívame na modernizáciu našej krajiny. slovensko má silnú občiansku spoločnosť a vysokú mieru slobody médií. sami si však uvedomujeme, že sú oblasti, v ktorých musíme pridať, napríklad aj v kvalite vzdelávania, výskumného a inovačného potenciálu, v kvalite štátnej správy, či znižovaní priestoru na korupciu. ale slovenský príbeh môže byť inšpiráciou pre európsku úniu aj v súčasnej situácii. úspešne možno zdolať ťažké výzvy a prekonať veľké prekážky, treba to však chcieť. už milan rastislav štefánik, veľký slovenský a európsky diplomat a jeden zo zakladateľov československej republiky v roku 1918, náš francúzsky generál povedal: „for people of strong determination and endurance there is nothing they cannot achive.“ – „pre ľudí so silným odhodlaním a vytrvalosťou nie je nič nedosiahnuteľné.“. a jeho odkazom sme sa riadili aj po vstupe do európskej únie, keď nás čakalo množstvo ďalšej práce. prešli sme náročným procesom vstupu do schengenu a eurozóny. na svojej ceste v integrácii sme sa nikdy nezastavili, pretože úprimne veríme v silu a správnosť európskej myšlienky. zjednotenú európu považujeme za prirodzený priestor pre našu existenciu. som presvedčený, že iná alternatíva pre nás neexistuje. toto sme potvrdili aj počas slovenského predsedníctva v rade európskej únie a bratislavský summit vyslal jasný signál jednoty únie po šoku z výsledkov britského referenda. no slovensko podobne, ako celá európa v súčasnosti, nie je úplne imúnne proti útokom na hodnoty európskej únie. aj v takej dôležitej oblasti, ako je sloboda slova. akékoľvek útoky na novinárov vyvolávajú oprávnenú reakciu verejnosti a videli sme to aj na slovensku. to je znak veľkej vyspelosti našej demokracie a našich občanov. pred pár týždňami uplynul rok od vraždy novinára jána kuciaka a jeho partnerky martiny kušnírovej. dvojnásobná vražda dvoch mladých ľudí otriasla celým slovenskom, spoločensky aj politicky. ale chcem vás uistiť, že všetci máme len jeden jediný cieľ: vypátrať a potrestať páchateľov tohto zločinu. a tu chcem vyjadriť aj poďakovanie európskemu parlamentu vrátane monitorovacej skupiny pre právny štát za doterajšiu, a hoci aj často kritickú spoluprácu. rovnako ďakujem aj europolu za pomoc pri vyšetrovaní, ktoré prinieslo svoje výsledky: prví obvinení sú už vo väzbe a čakajú na spravodlivý súd. dnes za slovensko môžem potvrdiť, že aj v týchto neľahkých časoch chceme aj naďalej patriť do skupiny najviac integrovaných krajín európskej únie. sme pripravení znášať svoj adekvátny podiel na bremene zodpovednosti za spoločný integračný projekt, ako aj spoluformovať našu európsku budúcnosť. v najbližšej dobe nás čakajú voľby prezidenta slovenskej republiky. verím, že občania slovenska preukážu svoju vyspelosť a vyberú si kandidáta s jasným proeurópskym smerovaním. a dovolím si povedať, že strana, ktorú zastupujem, ako vládna strana nemohla postaviť viac proeurópskeho kandidáta ako podpredsedu európskej komisie, maroša šefčoviča. a aj to považujem za signál o hodnotách do vnútra krajiny ako aj navonok. the success story of slovakia is, to a certain extent, defined by where we come from. central europe is a natural living environment for slovakia, on the basis of our history, geography and culture. after all, regional political cooperation is the essence of eu success. franco-german cooperation, weimar, benelux, the baltics and even the visegrád group are bringing new initiatives and ideas and thus strengthening our union. slovakia currently holds the presidency of the visegrád group. our main objective is to bring a positive agenda to strengthen the eu. of course, we are aware of differences, maybe even of criticism and misunderstandings, but in these challenging times we need to keep everyone on board, at the table, and we need to resolve our disputes through dialogue. the european union is the product of a strong vision and the immense efforts of several generations. we are simply obliged to protect it, especially now when europe and western democracies face dramatic new developments. we are surrounded by challenges coming from all directions, from both inside and outside europe. we see growing russian and chinese aspirations, which require a strong and united eu response. we see that climate change can have an unpredictable economic, political and social impact on our lives. we see a new wave of technological revolution – industry 4.0 – and europe as we know it will survive only if it stays in the forefront of technological progress and innovation. to achieve this, our governments need to become governments 4.0. moreover, we face many challenges from within europe. growing social differences are destroying the original social contract. we face a dramatic ageing of our societies. regional socioeconomic disparities do not contribute to a feeling of unity: many people feel they are being left behind. in this context, it is no surprise that mass immigration from countries outside the eu has caused new tensions and conflicts. we forgot to talk to our citizens about europe, about democracy and about our plans for the future. when they hear no answers from us, they turn elsewhere. lack of communication can become a breeding ground for disinformation and fake news. one example was the british referendum in 2016. it is obvious that isolationism, protectionism and nationalism are not a solution. our answer must not be fragmentation into small national states with limited resources, but stronger unity of the eu as a global power. honourable members, as 17 of my colleagues have done already, let me be brave and determined in presenting my vision of our common future: a vision of an attractive union that citizens can trust and support. this remains a valid message from the bratislava summit: first, a union which is united, prosperous and secure; and, second, a union which is globally relevant, a union which is honest with its citizens, and a union which cares about its own future. however, we need to find a common path to achieve our ideals. so my question is ‘how shall we get there?’ first, we need to be united. ‘unity’ was the word most frequently used by my colleagues who have already addressed this house, and they are completely right. without unity among the member states we would become subject to the decisions of others. we cannot be credible and successful in achieving our ideals if we do not overcome the last leftovers of the former east-west divide. we have to get rid of the stereotypes through which we perceive our differences. here i would like to recall the words of the highly regarded slovak politician milan hodža, who served as prime minister of czechoslovakia from 1935 to 1938. back in 1942, he wrote: ‘european security cannot be built only in the west, it also requires central europe, and the common democratic ideals and institutions of both provide hope for the future’. i believe that beyond differences and geographical boundaries there lie common interests. we need to communicate, try to understand one another, and perhaps go the extra mile on both sides. there are many positive examples of differences being overcome – to name just two major examples, the rules on the posting of workers and on dual food quality. on the other hand, there is one major issue on which we have failed, on both sides, to communicate – namely, migration. we must work out a solution that can work for everyone. immigration must be manageable and migration should serve european interests. yet, we cannot preserve political unity without achieving sufficient socioeconomic convergence and cohesion in the eu. in other words, we must use prosperity for the benefit of all. we must mitigate the negative consequences of globalisation and prevent tax avoidance by corporations. we have to make them pay taxes consistently in the countries where they really operate and generate their profits. we have to combat growing inequalities in society and redistribute wealth more efficiently. the introduction of a european minimum wage would be one way to create social solidarity. my government is particularly committed to the european pillar of social rights, which should provide a strong social dimension in the european union of the future. slovakia also advocates fair labour mobility, which will allow our citizens and companies to seize the opportunities of the single market. we therefore welcome the agreement to establish the european labour authority and we have already declared our intention of hosting it in our capital. secondly, we need to be globally relevant. we need the eu, which plays an important global role, reflecting its economic power. we must take action to unify our forces and increase capacity building in defence. therefore, slovakia strongly supports permanent structured cooperation (pesco) on security and defence, while ensuring complementarity between the eu and nato. being globally relevant also means that we should uphold our long-term commitments. we are not an exclusive club. we want to be an inclusive community, open to those who fulfil criteria and even to those who once left. this is in our strategic interest, as otherwise somebody else will fill the vacuum around us. at the same time, ‘global’ means having significant economic power, backed by a strong currency and based on free but fair international trade. the eu has to remain the champion in this regard. thirdly, we need to be honest with our citizens. we cannot promise our citizens a life without problems, hard work and challenges. the eu has no magic wand to solve all problems. however, we can offer our citizens a credible vision of our future, and turn that vision into tangible deeds. we need to make our citizens – above all, young people – feel a sense of ownership. the eu is not some fictitious, distant ‘brussels’. we are the european union. (applause) we need to confront those who tell us otherwise. ignoring them or ridiculing them is not the solution. we need to challenge them by facts. the eu is now a large and strong community. it provides us with a collective identity because there is something about the eu that is also personal. however, it does not take away our national or personal identity. our unity must be a unity of values within the diversity of our national, regional and local cultures. finally, we need to care about the future. soon, in the run-up to the european elections, you, the european political parties, will have an opportunity to present a new, realistic vision of our union. the european debate has become very lively and intense at many levels, political and civic, national and regional. my appreciation goes to president macron, who has significantly stimulated these discussions with his own vision of the future – and i agree with him. we cannot be trapped in the status quo and give way to resignation. we have to renew our union. it is up to us as leaders to find a common path and instruments which citizens can trust and support, because we need freedom, progress and protection in the european union. we have to find a way of protecting the four freedoms that are at the core of eu integration. we need an eu-wide debate on what our strategy and aspirations should be for the middle of the century. the eu will certainly have to undergo a major transformation towards a climate neutral economy. we need a transition that is socially just towards our citizens and fair to our businesses. an important issue for the future development of the european economy is that of digitalisation and automation. on the one hand, there is great concern that people will not have enough jobs because robots will replace them. on the other hand, there is great concern about the lack of skilled workers on the markets. yet, in the future we shall need even more highly skilled people. the best evidence of this is that the countries with the highest number of robots per job, germany, south korea, singapore, have the lowest unemployment rates. there are currently around 151 robots per 10 000 working places in slovakia. that is more than half the european average and the highest level in central and eastern europe. we should not be afraid of technological change: we just need to adopt smart and responsible policies. if we want to be honest in our aspiration for the future, we must have the right tools, such as the next multiannual financial framework (mff). the current eu budget represents only 1% of eu gross national income. while focusing the budget on new challenges, we should not give up on cohesion policy. calls for its reduction in the next mff reflect a wrong understanding of the role of cohesion policy. it is cohesion policy that helps rich and poor regions to converge, and contributes to growth even in economically difficult times. i mentioned that we need to speak about our future, but how can we speak about the new mff without having a clear vision of the european union? i don’t think it is the right approach to see firstly what kind of budget we have and then to decide what we can pay for out of it. i think we should do it otherwise. first we have to see where we would like to be in the next five, seven, ten or fifteen years – what are our priorities – and then to decide how big a budget and what kind of budget we need for our priorities. that is the approach which i prefer over the current one. (applause) on the subject of new technologies, we have to admit openly – and i’m not talking here about the european parliament but rather generally – that, at european level, we are not able to keep pace with developments in this area. we are always behind. we are facing a digital revolution but we are not able to effect a revolution in the regulatory framework. we are always behind. we are trying to regulate something that people are already using, and sometimes we do so in such a way that we over-regulate everything, and then we find ourselves crying that we are not at the same level as the usa or asia, where the innovation environment is growing up, while we are still divided with 27 or 28 different sets of regulations. so please, we need to consider some flexible regulatory framework, not to regulate each simple thing that is going on in our lives, because this is not the future in the digital revolution. we need to table only some basic rules and some kind of framework that is flexible enough, because we politicians are not able to act as fast as we need to act. that’s why i mention the world. if we are talking about industry 4.0, then we need to push our member states to introduce ‘government 4.0’, because what we currently have in some countries is more like government 2.0 or maybe 3.0. i am not sure if we have a government 4.0 anywhere reflecting the needs of the future. honourable members, the european elections are quickly approaching and we need to mobilise our forces to fight against fake news, hybrid threats and cyber-propaganda. make people feel the urgency! talk to them about the importance of the eu for their everyday lives. make them understand that elections matter: that this is their only opportunity to steer the eu, and that they should not let others speak for them. there is a lot of work ahead of us. let me finish my speech with the words of one of the founding fathers of european integration. jean monnet said: ‘people only accept change when they are faced with necessity, and only recognise necessity when a crisis is upon them.’ we must be brave and determined. we have to make changes and make the union attractive to all: a union able to learn from its past mistakes in order to prepare itself to embrace the future. once again, we need a vision of an attractive union that citizens can trust and support.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. good morning, mr president, mr prime minister, dear peter, i'm going to tell you a secret. i slept little that night, because of mrs may, but long enough to dream of slovakia and bratislava. because when i was negotiating with mrs may yesterday, i was thinking of the european summit in bratislava in september 2016, three months after the british people's decision to leave the european union. your government - of which you were a member, and you have much to be thankful for in terms of the record of the slovak presidency - accepted the idea of convening, for the first time in history, a european summit of the 27. the slovak government, like us, believed that brexit was in the past and that we had to prepare for the future of the european union. we did this in bratislava, by adopting what has come to be known as the bratislava roadmap. i have a good memory of that european council, which took place a few days after the state of the union address i gave in this house. for the first time, and probably also for the last, the 27 prime ministers welcomed the content of this speech. it has never happened before, it will never happen again, but i remember the bratislava summit as a great moment in my little political life, because it made it possible for us to move forward with courage, with determination, although sometimes in a senator's train, towards a european future which some people had predicted at the time would never see the light of day after the british decision. we agreed last night with the british government on the terms and consequences of brexit. i said last night, or during the night, that this was a second chance, but there will not be a third. i would therefore like the members of the british parliament today to support the approach, both british and european, which has been agreed at european union level in the form of a common text. i would like to thank you, mr peter, on behalf of the commission, for all the support that the slovak government has been giving us. i am thinking in particular of the effort he made when it was necessary to innovate by amending the directive on the posting of workers. it was a big step. the same applies to the creation of the european labour authority. i would also point out, and this is not a comment i am making to you, that the number of governments which want to host the european labour authority on their territory is higher than the number of governments which, ab initio and spontaneously, supported the commission in its desire to create this authority, on the model of the banking authority. i am glad to hear you say that you like the social pillar of the european union. the more prime ministers say this, not only here but also in the european council and at the level of the council of ministers, the less isolated i feel at the level of the european union. the slovak government has helped us a great deal to set up the social pillar at the extraordinary european council in gothenburg, which, by the way, i say to those who keep demanding it, expressed the need to establish a minimum wage throughout europe. this is not an idea that has been born in the last few weeks, it is an idea that has been driving us since this commission took office, and i would like us to implement it as quickly as possible. the same applies to the creation of a minimum income in all the countries of the european union. you spoke of the financial framework for the next seven years and you were right to say that we must first agree on the policies and then on the means of financing the policies that have been decided. that is exactly what the commission has done. the approach we took was exactly what you wanted. you say that the need to maintain cohesion policy must not be overlooked. i am a strong supporter of cohesion policy, but in order to agree on this we had to take into account, as you have just said, the policies of innovation and modernisation, the digital policy and the defence europe. we have done all this, and if we had not revised the cohesion policy, which is still necessary, and the common agricultural policy, we would have reached a budgetary level of 1.41%. even your government, despite your enthusiasm, would never have accepted a budget of 1.41%. so we had to make choices, and we made them. slovakia currently holds the presidency of the visegrád group. i would like you to take this opportunity to help put an end to this pointless debate between eastern europeans, or rather central europeans, and western europeans. europe must breathe with two lungs and we must make sure that these two lungs do not collide in the same body. we all have a part to play. we must not think that only the commission, the european parliament and a few governments in western europe are responsible for this confrontation, which is sometimes ridiculous and in any case harmful. i would like to ask you to use your presidency of the visegrád group to remedy this situation. you know, slovakia, for those of us from the west who are not young anymore, but who are trying to stay young, slovakia is not a country like any other. i was 13 years old at the time of what has been called the prague spring, which is also the bratislava spring. i believe that the first movements could even be observed in slovakia. we want to give this country special attention, a love made of experience and hope, and i would therefore like the slovaks not to think that the rest of europe does not like slovakia, on the contrary, and i would like slovakia to love the european union more. some of the historical facts that occurred after the two world wars are not well known. thus, the exiled government of czechoslovakia at the time and other central european governments had already drawn up a project for europe, which they called the project for the european union. at the end of this little-known document is a sentence that has always impressed me, even moved me. these central european countries, with their governments in exile, concluded by writing: 'we would like the countries of western europe to join us one day in building the european union. other history has prevented you from emerging from its shadow, but as the central europeans were the first to dream of a peaceful europe, it is our duty and our burning obligation to continue the work that is ours. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, mr juncker, thank you for your words. mr president of the government, welcome to the european parliament and thank you for sharing with us your vision of europe. the european people's party group would like to thank you for the tone and the language you have used. and we are grateful to you for referring from the rostrum to the murder of the journalist jan kuciak and his partner, although we do not think that is enough. freedom of the press is one of the fundamental pillars of democracy and when a journalist is killed, that tragedy affects all democracies. in malta, no one has yet taken responsibility for the death of daphne caruana. something we deeply regret. in slovakia, beyond the resignation of robert fico, we do not see much progress either. you don't get to the end of the investigation. why would you do that? what's stopping you from getting to the bottom of this? we are also very concerned about the rhetoric of some members of his coalition or of some presidential candidate. they continue to use hate speech against the opposition and hate speech against the press. what are you going to do about it? are you truly committed to fighting extremism and hate speech that some practice quite close to you? mr president-in-office, difficult times are coming for europe. brexit, we don't know where it's going to take us. the transatlantic alliance is regularly called into question. the russian government is eager to weaken us, to see us fail, to divide us. there's a migration crisis unprecedented since the second world war. these are problems which the european states cannot tackle alone. these are problems for which we need greater unity and yet, when we are in that circumstance, your government seems to be betting on just the opposite. your speech is one here, but then your government in your country does the opposite. we would like to know what your position really is: the one in the speech we have just heard or the one your government is practicing in slovakia? are you committed to the process of further european integration? are you committed to your country's membership of nato? there are issues which concern us and which we feel not only have not been clarified, but which this morning are in contradiction with the actions that your government is taking in your country. we, as the group of the european people's party, are quite clear: europe must be built on the basis of concrete action; europe must be built from the bottom up, from the simplicity of citizens and municipalities, and not from elitism. the great speeches about europe are of no use if you have the worst-managed agriculture in the european union in your own country. europe must be built with rigor, with seriousness, with ambitious but also feasible proposals. national policy cannot be based on confrontation with brussels, on confrontation with brussels, on political war against brussels. europe-populism is as dangerous as nation-populism. and europe must be built from within, by addressing the problems, but also from outside, because there are ideological battles, mr president of the government, which, without taking place on european soil, are also european battles, such as the one taking place in venezuela, which is a battle for freedom and democracy and also today, unfortunately, for food. your government has not yet recognized the interim president of venezuela, mr. guaidó. in this respect, it is in the same orbit as russia, cuba and iran. that's to make you look at it, mr. prime minister. how long will it take, mr pellegrini, before you take the side of the people who are starving and who are not getting their medicine? mr president of the government, it is true that the european dream deserves the efforts and unity of everyone. we must recover ambition, recover idealism, recover contact with the citizens. we are therefore doing something wrong, because every day more and more citizens turn their eyes to anti-european and extremist movements. there is no doubt in my mind, mr pellegrini, that national populism is the most serious threat to the dream of european union today. it is national populism that is the biggest threat. all the others exist, but none are as corrosive to us as the one that comes from within. and, i am very much mistaken, or we shall have a large group of national populists in this parliament in the next parliamentary term. that is why we all - you in your responsibility, as president juncker reminded you, and we in ours - must do what we can. and you as the council will soon have a very important job, which is to propose to this parliament a president of the commission. i would like him to leave here having reminded him that we are committed not to accept a candidate who has not previously stood in the european elections, who has not been endorsed by the vote of the citizens, who has been imposed and not voted. in short, mr president of the government, on 26 may a new chapter in european history will be opened, a chapter which must be built by cooperation and by all voices, large and small, because the greatness of europe is unity.
mr president, i would like to thank prime minister pellegrini for being here and for making the case for a more social europe. wages, equal pay, unemployment schemes and decent jobs are of the essence to relaunch europe. best wishes to mr maroš šefčovič, who is running for the slovakian presidency, and, of course, all support to your endeavours to clear out the murderer of the slovakian journalists and to fight corruption against eu interests. but, just a question, as you’re about to hold the presidency of the visegrád group: what is its nature? what’s its purpose? what does it deliver? and, more importantly, you’ve heard a member here saying that the purpose of the visegrád group is to close the external borders in order to prevent sharia and islamisation. do you agree with that notorious infamy? or do you disagree with that crap? because we didn’t hear a word from you. you didn’t react when you heard that notorious infamy, which is absolutely unacceptable. is that the purpose of the visegrád group, prime minister pellegrini?
madam president, we are voting on the first of a series of reports on the security of europeans, including, in this strasbourg part-session, the report on the european union internal security fund. and i think it is an occasion to remember that yesterday was the 15th anniversary of the massacre with the greatest number of victims in the history of the european union: the terrorist massacre that took place in spain on 11 march 2004. and i think that this is a good opportunity for us to send a message of endless solidarity with the victims of terrorism and of determination in the fight against all forms of terrorism and its threats.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report because we know very well that in my country, where the price of milk is 28 cents, milk producers receive no more than the cost of production, while processors receive much more, which leaves the former in a particularly vulnerable position in relation to unfair trading practices. farmers often do not have the same bargaining power as the partners who buy their products. unfair trading practices throughout the food supply chain are so significant that the european commission has had to intervene three times and it is time to really take the reins on this issue. for these reasons, this commission proposal on unfair trading practices responds to a strong and longstanding demand from the farming population and the strong conviction that farmers must be much better protected against these abusive and unfair trading practices.
madam president, i voted in favour because i consider the european citizens' initiative to be a direct, democratic and participatory instrument of public participation. i have actively participated in defending several of them, such as the right to water as a basic human right, which finally did not pass, or the minority safe pack, to protect national minority languages, linguistic rights and cultures. there is much to improve, such as the deadline for collecting signatures that should be much longer, also the campaigns to raise awareness and the proof is that there have been few initiatives approved since it came into force in 2011. the commission shall make publicly available an online register enabling the groups of organisers to manage their initiative during the process. the online registration shall include an effective and easily accessible public website with general, clear, accurate and comprehensive information.
mr president, since 1990, when the democratic clause was first included in the eu-argentina agreement, it has been an essential element of the agreements which the european union concludes with third countries. this democratic clause is in the union's genetic code and is tangible proof of the european union's unwavering commitment to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. there are two problems, however. first, the application, which is not immediate. and secondly, the delay in decision-making. while we are involved in lengthy procedures - the commissioner was talking about the unanimity rule - there are others who take decisions overnight. it is therefore important that the european union has an agile and effective code of sanctions for human rights violations. that will help, mr president, to make the european union more consistent with its principles, more respected on the international scene and more credible.
mr president, for the eu to be credible when standing for the protection of human rights worldwide, we need more than just words. we also need instruments. in this regard, the european regime to impose sanctions on individuals from both state and non—state actors responsible for human rights violations is imperative. it places the eu as the front—runner for the protection of human rights worldwide. it enhances the visibility of the eu as a responsible international actor. it sends a strong signal to those many existing dictatorships and authoritarian regimes which systematically disregard the right and the duty to preserve human dignity. it would be a tool to make life a bit more difficult for those responsible for – or involved – in grave human rights violations and abuses. it would be a way to support the victims of those abuses as well as human rights defenders and a step towards fighting against impunity. for all these reasons, i call on the council to reach a prompt agreement on this much—needed regime.
mr president, a european system of sanctions for human rights violations would certainly have our support. it would be very necessary. but above all, it would also be very necessary not to continue with a vision, with some complicity towards impunity. and i will give you three examples, commissioner, three countries. morocco, the case of the rif. yesterday, several rif activists were condemned precisely for having defended social rights, for having defended freedom of expression. i'll keep giving you examples, commissioner. the case of western sahara, where there are currently political prisoners on hunger strike, and, of course, the case of turkey. we'll talk about turkey later, but we have political leaders in prison, academics, journalists. and what about israel, commissioner? what about israel? we would therefore very much like to see the commission's complicity reduced, because political influence also lies in not making parallel trade agreements. the united nations has just stated that israel's attacks on gaza, in the return march, may constitute crimes against humanity and that they have killed 189 people 35 of them children in those marches since 2018
mr president, tomorrow this house, the very same institution that in 2004 eagerly voted in favour of starting negotiations, will vote on the formal suspension of accession talks with turkey. much has happened in these 15 years and our relationship has been difficult at many times. however, the current stalemate could have been avoided if the accession framework had been used fully and if turkey had kept its path towards reform and towards more democracy. regretfully, the situation in turkey has deteriorated a lot in recent years. the rule of law, fundamental rights and basic freedoms have been under great pressure. the recent indictment seeking a lifelong imprisonment for osman kavala is just one among thousands of examples of this backlash. however, suspending accession negotiations with turkey is not the solution. in order to keep alive the prospect of democracy in turkey, respect for human rights and individual and collective freedoms, we need to keep the doors open – if not for the present, then for the future. if not for us, then for those men in turkey fighting for human rights and justice. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, first of all i would like to thank kati piri, the rapporteur of this report, for her work, not just this year, but for the five years of tireless work on turkey, which has not always been easy. today we are sending yet another warning as a european parliament to mr erdogan for the institutional deterioration that the country has suffered in recent years. a deterioration that has been especially profound after the coup d'état. we have seen savage purges in public administration, systematic violations of human rights, disrespect for minorities or arrests of journalists, day after day. and what has been the final straw have been constitutional reforms that have ended up transforming turkey's identity: from a modern turkey to a monolithic turkey. but today is also the day to send a message that erdogan is not turkey and we need channels of dialogue and negotiation. what kind of things? the modernisation of the customs union is conditional. and at the same time, visa liberalization so that turkey can return to the rule of law.
mr president, erdoğan and his allies have virtually destroyed all of turkey's democratic institutions. the character of this new regime is particularly evident in the repression of the opposition, which is directed primarily against the kurds and the hdp. the hdp chairman, mr demirtaş, sent me a letter from his prison, in which he asked for a freeze, not a suspension, of the negotiations with turkey. mrs bodil, mr solé and i visited him last december. commissioner, europe must continue its dialogue with turkey in a transparent manner, with a close and critical eye, particularly in view of the forthcoming local elections. turkey is not erdoğan. the turkish and kurdish peoples deserve our attention and cooperation. we must not leave them alone in the face of a dictator who has imprisoned more than 150 000 civil servants, who has closed down more than 2 000 ngos and more than 200 media outlets, and also members of parliament.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, we welcome parliament’s continued focus on the situation in venezuela and your commitment to a lasting solution to the crisis in that country. it is important to use all the tools we have to encourage a peaceful and democratic solution, to be achieved through free and credible presidential elections. since our last debate on venezuela in this plenary at the end of january, tension and polarisation have further escalated and living conditions have been worsening. the number of venezuelans leaving their country continues to grow. according to the unhcr, some 2.7 million venezuelans have left the country since 2015 and the number could rise to 5 million by the end of the year if the crisis continues to worsen. the recent nationwide blackout that is still affecting certain states is contributing to a further deterioration in health services and in the supply of food and water. as we all know, this crisis has at its origin a political and institutional problem. the current situation has built up over years of attacks against democracy, the constitution and fundamental human rights. the solution to the crisis needs to be political as well as democratic, peaceful and venezuelan owned. political prisoners need to be released and the powers of the national assembly have to be restored as the national assembly is currently the only democratically elected body in the country. we have also called a number of times for the constitutionally mandated immunity of all national assembly members, and of assembly president juan guaidó, to be respected. they need to be able to exercise their political mandate without fear of reprisals or intimidation. we firmly reject the use of force to resolve this situation. any military option would only cause more human rights violations and more suffering for the people of venezuela. at the same time, it is essential to avoid an escalation of violence within the country. we have called for a halt to attacks and intimidation against civilians and lawmakers, from both security forces and irregular armed groups. the only way to end this crisis is to let the people of venezuela express their will through a democratic presidential election that must be free, fair, inclusive and transparent. with this goal, the european union has promoted the creation of an international contact group on venezuela. the purpose of this group is to help create the conditions for a political process that should lead to free and fair presidential elections. the contact group has set a clear timeframe to verify whether we can encourage some guarantees to give credibility to the electoral process. the electoral supervisory bodies need to be reformed, starting with the national electoral council. the electoral register needs to be updated. all political parties and leaders need to be able to compete on equal terms, and political prisoners should be released. independent electoral observation should also be ensured. our proposal does not aim to buy time. we are convinced that an international initiative can help build these minimum conditions, which would eventually lead to relaunching a meaningful political process and to new presidential elections. meanwhile, it is urgent to address the pressing needs of the population. this cannot wait for a political settlement of the crisis. lives are at risk. humanitarian assistance needs to enter the country unimpeded and reach those in need. in the past two years, the european union has committed more than eur 67 million of humanitarian and development assistance and we are ready to scale up this assistance. the contact group is exploring the possibility of establishing an international mechanism for coordination and delivery of humanitarian assistance inside venezuela in close cooperation with the united nations and our international and local partners. the aid must be delivered impartially on the basis of the population’s real needs and not that of a political agenda. it must be distributed by independent actors under the leadership of the united nations. aid should never be politicised and it should serve only humanitarian purposes. the international contact group is now working on these two main areas: elections and humanitarian assistance. the group sent a technical mission to venezuela in february to discuss with all sides the conditions and guarantees for holding credible presidential elections, and also the delivery of humanitarian assistance. a senior officials’ meeting discussed the results of the technical mission and a new ministerial meeting will be held at the end of march in latin america. we europeans are not neutral. more than one million venezuelans have either a european passport or a family in europe. we care about venezuela and its people, and the people of venezuela are asking for change. at the same time, we believe that change cannot be imposed from the outside. a sustainable solution can only come from the people of venezuela. we are ready to do all in our power so that venezuelans can be the masters of their own destiny.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we were to lose electricity right now, all the patients in intensive care would die within an hour; in 15 hours we would run out of insulin; in 20 hours the water from the tap would stop coming; in one day the food in the fridges would spoil; in two days the babies in the neonatal units would die; in three days the water we have stored would no longer be drinkable and, from the fifth day onwards, the patients who need dialysis would die. it would be a huge catastrophe. well, this is what is happening in venezuela: more than a hundred hours without electricity. the venezuelan people are helpless in the face of hunger, thirst, lack of medicine, the evil men who roam the country armed, spreading terror, and the lack of a national currency. nicolás maduro has become the metaphor of death in venezuela and his regime in death itself. they can't solve the problems who created them; they can't solve the problems who don't see them. the european union must insist on the release of all political prisoners, starting with luis carlos díaz, a spaniard who has disappeared today because he was doing his job as a journalist. the european union must increase the list of sanctioned persons and increase the list of sanctions. it's outrageous to see the sons of generals partying in madrid while the people are dying in the mud. the european union must back any decision to bring down the tyrant that juan guaidó or the national assembly adopts. the image on the news today is the people of caracas going down to the river to collect fecal water to drink. can we just be cool? what is the famous contact group doing about it? the democracy of venezuela is our democracy; the freedom of venezuela is our freedom. the hunger of venezuela should be our hunger. if not for convictions, at least because there are two million european citizens locked up and terrified with the venezuelan people. if we really believe that being european is a matter of principle, let us not leave juan guaidó or the venezuelan people alone.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i have run out of words to condemn maduro, but i think it is also time to make very serious and very dramatic forecasts, certainly not only because of the lack of light, but because, i would like to be wrong, but i sincerely believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the risks of an internal confrontation in venezuela are growing. and i want to be wrong - again - but the ruin of the country can end in a social strife or worse and, in any case, without a solution. that is why i believe that the european union is doing the right thing by seeking a peaceful negotiation, a democratic way out. and by the way, ladies and gentlemen, the only ones who can talk to the government and the opposition today are the european union and the contact group together with costa rica, ecuador, bolivia. and these countries can and must make internal reconciliation, internal peaceful exit. there is no other way to avoid social strife and to find a democratic and peaceful way out.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, venezuela is experiencing a deep crisis of massive human rights violations due to food and medicine shortages, hyperinflation, violence and political repression, which has forced more than three million people to flee the country. nicolás maduro's strategy of social control through fear and punishment against those who demand change is repulsive. your government is raging on the poorest people whom it says it defends, but then murders, arrests and threatens - not my words: it's amnesty international's report of february 20th. under maduro, poverty reaches 87% of the population and the minimum wage minimum, of course is six dollars a month. venezuela has the honor of being the 168th country on the list of the most corrupt in the world, along with syria, somalia and afghanistan countries at war, because maduro is at war against his own people. to speak of justice in venezuela is sarcasm. judges are appointed by maturity. selective extrajudicial executions are carried out by the bolivarian national police, as amnesty international denounces in the report i have presented to them, and the helicoid is a reference to horror, to torture by the sebin. democracy is absent. the legitimately elected national assembly is doubled by the madurista constituent assembly. guaidó is the legitimate representative, the legitimate president, not maduro. the country has been without electricity for five days and people drink water from the sewer that crosses caracas the guaire river. and there are still those who will speak of it as a revolutionary process and support it. the revolution to the last venezuelan, of course, not of their illustrious skins, who claim electricity, light, medicine and food, which the venezuelan people do not have. i ask for all solidarity for our venezuelan brothers, and for the repulsive kleptocratic madurista class all sanctions.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, i feel i am experiencing a déjà vu and i am not saying this because of the many times the venezuela issue has been discussed in this house. i say this because of the many times that this parliament, under the pretext of humanitarianism, has accompanied and instigated the path of military interventions or violent agendas for regime change. i think of libya and syria and i see the same lies about democracy and human rights, when all that mattered was to overthrow sovereign governments to get access to gas or oil. did they apologize? did they spend a minute thinking about the total destruction of the libyan state or the support for the terrorist groups that have ravaged syria? in venezuela they use the same lies. after the failure of a coup, street terrorism, assassination, they disguise a criminal blockade as a humanitarian crisis and a sabotage of the electricity system as a management crisis. the same lies as two weeks ago with the alleged aid trucks burned by guaidó's followers. lies to help the hawks in washington destroy the united nations charter. they're lies to hide the urge to overthrow a government they don't like. they didn't care about the poor when they ruled their own, just like they don't care about the more than 500 children who die every year in la guajira or the 120 social leaders killed in colombia in these three months of 2019. stop lying to me. stop fomenting the criminal war. get your hands off venezuela.
mr. president, do you know why venezuela is in the dark? because criminals need it to commit their crimes. the chavista regime is incompetent, authoritarian and corrupt. that is why in venezuela, a country rich in resources, there is no light, no food, no medicine. the maduro regime is responsible for every baby, for every sick person who dies in a hospital because of the blackouts. the regime is also responsible for the illegal arrest and imprisonment today of the journalist luis carlos díaz by the way, spanish citizen; by the way, european citizen. the regime wants more obscurity for its crimes. why would you do that? because he wants to exterminate in mass, without spending a bullet. and i'm going to make it very clear. do you know what the international contact group is for in these conditions? to make a fool of themselves, to discredit the european union. do you know what it's like to be without electricity for five days? nothing works - you can't get money, you can't buy food, the gas stations are closed, there's no water. venezuela has a legitimate interim president with a roadmap that we have committed ourselves to accompanying: cessation of the usurpation, transitional government and free elections. if this is his plan, this must be europe's plan and he, juan guaidó, is our only contact. with the country in a state of national emergency, all mrs mogherini has to do is call president guaidó and ask him what exactly the european union can do for him and the venezuelans, and then do it.
mr. president, the usurping government of venezuela is crumbling. it is only maintained in power as a result of the use and exercise of brute force in the midst of enormous suffering of the population. the question, mr president, is how much suffering venezuelan society still has to experience and how many deaths the experiment of 21st century socialism still has to take until its final collapse. the country is in an absolutely chaotic situation, mr president, and yet the repression does not stop. we are talking about the journalist referred to by other colleagues, whose immediate release we are calling for. we have seen the harassment of the crew of the air europa airline and we have seen the destruction of humanitarian aid at the borders of brazil and colombia. the european union cannot remain indifferent to the serious and systematic violation of human rights, mr commissioner, and the sanctions must be increased and the diplomatic sanctions effectively applied. i haven't heard a protest over the expulsion of the german ambassador... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, it is unfortunate that one of the richest countries in the world in terms of energy resources has been in darkness for more than five days and is experiencing the worst energy crisis in its history. and that is not the fault of the imperialists and other false conspiracies. it is chavista socialism that has led to chaos and despair. while in venezuela citizens - as my colleagues have said - go to fetch contaminated water and children die in hospitals, it turns out that since 2013 the electrical installations in venezuela are militarized. and cuba continues to act like a real vampire, sucking up over 80,000 barrels of oil a day. the european union must demand that the power plants be recovered and returned to the venezuelan people, represented by interim president juan guaidó, and that the oil shipments made by the government of nicolás maduro to cuba be stopped. these decisions are priorities.
mr president, commissioner, shortages, hunger, lack of medicines, corruption have been suffocating venezuelans for years. that's why maduro lost the election and invented an assembly to maintain power. then the sanctions came. the blackouts, which are aggravating the drama in the country today, are further proof of the incapacity, inhumanity and incompetence of a regime that some international bodies are already investigating as the author of a crime against humanity. last week, on the border with peru, i had the opportunity to listen to the victims of maduro: people with education, with a future elsewhere; men and women condemned to hunger, to marginalization, in need of the humanitarian aid that the dictator blocks. they want a free and peaceful country. and the solution lies in the contact group, in maintaining a strong and common european position and in organising free and credible elections now. and i want to show my opposition to any solution that is attempted outside of international law.
mr president, there has indeed been a physical blackout, but there is also a blackout of information to speak of the two sides of reality. commissioner, have you seen the new york times article? i don't think the american newspaper is complicit with maduro, and yet they disprove a lot of lies, a lot of fake news, and you know what's worse? that there are many speakers, especially conservatives in this chamber, who are not concerned about the people of venezuela, making speeches of spanish domestic consumption to run as european candidates. nor are they interested in the montevideo contact group, which they boycott from time to time in the search for a negotiated solution. how can they talk about dialogue if they don't want dialogue, they just want "business as usual", business, oil, money, money and money. they should be worried above all because soon their seats will be taken by the far right. with that, yes, you should be concerned.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have four requests to make. one, that they leave venezuela in peace so that - as you have said, commissioner - it is the venezuelans who decide their future. two, that they are not cynical and that, if they are really interested in democracy and human rights, they condemn the attacks and criminal actions of the united states. attacks like the one that caused the blackout that's being talked about here, but not being told where it's coming from. three, that they show that they care about the venezuelan people and not their oil. and four, get your hands off venezuela and use your time to craft policies that will actually end the impoverishment of the working class and not further enrich the multinationals.
mr. president, i know that venezuela was living through a period of darkness - we already knew that - but with an unprecedented humanitarian crisis. but today that darkness is not a metaphor, it's a reality in a city where children die in hospitals, without light, without water, with a... we've already seen maduro's reaction at the border, burning the trucks with medicine in front of the sick, burning the food in front of the hungry... and europe is still talking about the contact group. and maduro laughs at our contact group and our dialogue; we have been watching it for months and years. i believe that the european union cannot talk about free elections only in a non-concrete way. you have to talk to guaidó and set a date and know what you're going to do, not just say... because maduro will never call a free election. so, all i want to say to the brave venezuelan people... (the president cut the speaker off)
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, two years have now passed since this report was presented. no one would say. the same accusations without solid evidence, the same arguments based on decades-old discredited communication theories, the same myopia when it comes to a good neighbour policy with russia. and what's worse, the same willingness to blame the outcomes of internal political processes here in europe on external actors, when it's the electorate who punishes the majority parties for their neoliberal policies. and to top it off, this report includes a reference to the so-called islamic state which only serves to worsen our relations with russia by equating it with a group designated as terrorist by the united nations. this parliament proposes the creation of independent groups for communication and journalists. but how can you be independent if you receive funding from the european union? this parliament does what it criticises and does not criticise what it does.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, it is my honour to address this plenary session of the european parliament as rapporteur for the european parliament's recommendation on the association agreement between the european union and the principality of monaco, the principality of andorra and the republic of san marino. on 22 december 2014, the council authorised the european commission, on behalf of the member states, to negotiate an association agreement between the three european microstates and the european union. the european commission had already stated that will in 2012, but this is the first time that the european parliament has the opportunity to debate this proposal for a recommendation in which the european parliament sets its position, before the end of this legislature, on this ongoing negotiation agreement which 'is not to be ignored' and cannot enter into force without the final consent of the european parliament, because that is the rule of the lisbon treaty, which strengthens, as never before, this european parliament as the last word in international agreements negotiated on behalf of the european union. so there they are: the principality of andorra, the principality of monaco, the republic of san marino, sovereign states with a long history which has interested me - i must say - as a jurist specialising in comparative constitutional law, with peculiarities which must be observed and respected throughout the negotiation of the current association agreement and its conclusion. but i have also seen the interest it arouses not only in its border states - france, italy and spain - but also in the european union as a whole. they are important partners for the future of the union, despite being micro-states, despite their small size and small population. but in accordance with the declaration on article 8 of the treaty on european union, it makes perfect sense to exercise flexibility, to exercise realism in incorporating the community acquis - the four freedoms in terms of legal certainty - but at the same time to respect the uniqueness and specificity and the capacity of these three microstates to absorb the european acquis. it is clear that, in relation to the implementation of the four freedoms in small territories with very small populations, temporary exceptions will have to be established, which can be reviewed over time, in accordance with the circumstances and the evolution of their adaptation in each of the three states involved in this negotiation, in order to ensure the proper implementation of the same. the budgetary capacity of these three small states is also limited, so a mechanism for resolving conflicts and even a consultation forum must be established. because we are not talking about joining the union, we are talking about an association agreement without joining and joining the european union, which is a very different thing. but i must finally touch on one point which is interesting. taxation issues have been left out of the negotiating mandate - we all know that - and yet we must acknowledge the efforts made by these three small states in relation to transparency and cooperation in tax matters, and the willingness to cooperate in the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism in particular. i think it is important to call on these three states to continue on the right track of cooperation with the oecd and all the international bodies. it is important to note that these three states are members of the council of europe, which is part of the greek group on the fight against corruption, and it is important to recognize the efforts made in these structures. the recommendation draws attention to the importance of emphasising the relationship with the border states - in the case of spain, france and italy - and of achieving better cooperation in areas of mutual interest and horizontal policies. and finally, i just want to make three points. in the case of andorra, i think we should recognize the efforts made in the field of financial regulation, particularly in relation to tobacco, an area in which an agreement has been signed not only with the european union but also with the border state that requested it, spain. it is also important to recognise the difficulties of san marino in exporting to the member states due to the vat documentation known as t2. and finally, with monaco, we must recognize that it is a very small population in which, moreover, the monegasque population is a minority in relation to the population living in the village of monaco. so it will be very important to make that active exercise of flexibility, of intelligence, so that this negotiation can be conducted successfully.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, andorra, san marino and monaco are three european countries with very clear historical, political and socioeconomic characteristics, which have good relations with their neighbours. as the european union, we are interested in closer relations with them and the association agreement is certainly an opportunity to improve and modernise these relations. it is important for the smooth running of the negotiations - which i hope can be concluded shortly - that the public in the three countries, especially those sectors which may be more reluctant to accept the agreement, be well informed at all times of the content and progress of the negotiations, which must be transparent. it is right to recognize the efforts made by andorra to transform the basis of its economic model and also - and this was very urgent - to have a transparent tax system that meets european and international standards. the andorran authorities should be encouraged to continue along this path of reform, cooperation and closer relations with the european union.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr juan fernando lópez aguilar, on the excellent work he has done. this agreement is very relevant because, although these are small states, they are located on the territory of the european union, and i therefore believe it is important that they can participate in the european internal market. i am particularly pleased for andorra, for reasons of proximity and because i am the president of the friendship group between the european union and the principality of andorra. i have seen the great effort made by the andorran government to conform to european standards and to overcome the image of a tax haven. andorra's evolution in recent years is truly remarkable, as it has gone from being an opaque economy to an economy based on services, tourism and banking, understood in a transparent way. it is a model state in all of europe, with very high welfare standards. in short, these three states, which by their very nature cannot belong to the european union, will have the greatest possible degree of integration thanks to this agreement.
mr president, this is a very short speech, i simply want to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr juan fernando lópez aguilar, the alternative rapporteurs and especially mr santiago fisas, because they have done an extraordinary job. my father was born in the pyrenees, in a valley near andorra, where living conditions have historically been very harsh for centuries. andorra has undergone an extraordinary transformation in recent years and this agreement, which will be approved by a large majority tomorrow, is very commendable. and i want to thank all the members, and especially those i have appointed, for their dedication and their work to achieve the harmonization of good practice that the government of andorra is doing. and i also want to acknowledge - as jordi solé has done - the efforts of the andorran government, its parliament and the people of andorra to converge and to move closer to good practice and the european union.
the rapporteur. mr president, in this closing speech i wish to express my appreciation of the thoughtful and constructive judgment which has dominated all the speeches from the very different parliamentary groups, which express the european union's welcoming attitude to three small states three micro-states which are part of the map, values and history of europe. and i think that in this closing statement what is appropriate is to draw attention to the opportunity for us to launch a joint political declaration between the european union and these three small states in the same way that we are here validating the report on the recommendation of the procedure under way to support it, to encourage it and to draw attention to the need to carry it out successfully by showing sensitivity to the particularities of each of these three situations. secondly, i think that we should do a pedagogical exercise because we are dealing with three democratic countries. some of the criticisms i have heard are perfectly replicable in each of the member states, including those relating to fiscal particularities, but in any case these are three countries which have committed themselves to their own democratic ratification processes and i believe that the european union is also playing a role in encouraging the pedagogy necessary to complete it successfully, explaining the benefits of an association agreement between these three small states in relation to the great project of european integration, to which, however, they do not knock on the door as aspiring member states but as candidates for association. and finally, a word of appreciation that goes. we must recognize the efforts made to harmonize their legal systems in all areas in order to continue to promote and encourage the positive conclusion of this association agreement, which we hope will be a reality as i have heard very recently.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to warmly congratulate my colleague, mr morten løkkegaard, because, in view of the council's restrictive position, as always, he has reached the best possible agreement. we have made progress in recognising the rights of the more than 100 million europeans who suffer from any kind of disability of any degree. the new directive will ensure that the obligations arising from the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities are fulfilled in the same way throughout the union. the directive projects its effects on transport and many basic services that are accessed physically or digitally, and the improvements range from financial services to computers, telephone terminals or e-books. another major achievement is making the emergency services accessed through 112 accessible. i regret that newly built environments or tourist facilities on beaches and other recreational sites are not included in the scope. i hope that the empathy that this report distilled will spur innovation and help us become world leaders in all technologies that alleviate disability.
mr president, commissioner jourová, we have had to lament many times during this parliamentary term the lack of results and the systematic blocking by the council of pieces of legislation which are extremely important to this european parliament. but the balance sheet of results in the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism is not negligible, it is not a balance sheet that can be underestimated. we have the fifth anti-money laundering directive, which has been adopted and is beginning to have its effects throughout the european union, and the directive on european criminal law, which is an extremely important tool for approximating criminal law and for giving meaning to the legislative work of this parliament as the european criminal legislator. the socialist group has strongly supported each and every one of these initiatives. it has done so in the commission which dealt with the panama papers, in the tax3 commission, of which i have had the honour of being a member. now is the time to tell the commission that it must resist the pressure from the council to try to discolour or degrade the list of countries suspected of contributing to these unacceptable practices. and we call on the commission to stand firm, particularly in all that concerns the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism on a date like today, on which 15 years ago spain suffered the worst terrorist attack with the highest number of victims in the entire history of the european union. it's time to be firm, commissioner jourová.
mr president, during this parliamentary term the commission has presented two lists of countries. both have been rejected by this parliament on the initiative of my group and others, mainly because they omit the dens of the european union's environment. we welcome the commission's decision to include panama and saudi arabia. however, once again, to analyse the list we have to look mainly at the countries that are not on it. especially those that aren't. the ones that don't show up. what about switzerland, for example, which is in flagrant violation of several articles of the international financial action task force's code on money laundering? ladies and gentlemen, if we are to take international terrorism and money laundering seriously, we must cut off their funding. and whether they like it or not, this will also mean the end of the tax havens where the big fortunes and european multinationals hide their money.
mr president, the council rejects the list. it's not good. preventing the use of the financial system for money laundering or terrorist financing is part of any strategy to deal with the threat. the anti-money laundering directive was adopted for this purpose and entered into force last july. article 9 (2) empowers the commission to adopt delegated acts in order to identify high-risk third countries, taking into account their strategic deficiencies. while this list is not perfect, it does show the need for financial institutions to strengthen their controls. however, it is necessary to allow the countries concerned sufficient time to undertake the necessary reforms in their systems and not to include those which are already in an advanced reform process. the union needs to monitor and develop 23 states and others and provide the commission's units with sufficient means to ensure that they have the necessary operational capacity and independence to amend the list, where appropriate, as effectively as possible. in the same vein, the union must find strengthened mechanisms to deal with legitimate pressure from third countries which do not want to be associated with money laundering or terrorist financing, but which, at the same time, benefit from lax regulation. and then there's the russia issue. the libe, econ and tax3 committees have repeatedly pointed out that russia is not in line with the financial framework. in this respect, mr president, the commission must take account of parliament's repeated opinion.
mr. president, this list doesn't include all who are, but it does include all who are. i do not like the council's attitude to the proposals made by the commission. i commend the commissioner for standing up for her assessments. you have our full support. the council's attitude on this matter is bad for two reasons. firstly, because it erodes the trust and credibility of the european institutions. and second, because it encourages behaviors that are harmful to all of us. we must believe that what is good for the union is good for all its members. and what is not transparent, what unfortunately is repeated, is to see the member states making bargains among themselves to protect particular interests, state by state, changing cards among themselves and not defending the union. we are faced with a matter that speaks to our collective ethics. we are faced with practices which are damaging the volume of available resources managed by the european treasuries. and this is one of those issues where the states are the ones making the unjustifiable decisions and it is the union that pays, in terms of prestige, a big bill. this is the gasoline of populism. i would therefore like to ask the council representative what the reasons are for rejecting the list. name at least two of them.
mr president, commissioner avramopoulos, we are discussing here in the european parliament the new visa information system. what it is. the aim is to enable the connection of border guards at the external borders of the member states of the european union with member states' consulates worldwide so that real-time information on schengen visa applicants who may pose security risks through biometric comparisons, fingerprints and identification and verification systems can be provided. this initiative is therefore to be welcomed, as it responds to the challenges of security in the european union and, in particular, allows interconnection through new technologies and the interoperability of data relating to visa applicants and threats to the security of the member states. the socialist group has given guarantees that the principles of proportionality and necessity of the lisbon treaty will be respected, while at the same time guaranteeing and respecting the rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the general data protection regulation. but the important thing is that we do not make progress in the european union exclusively in terms of security, but at the same time that we offer a comprehensive system to asylum seekers and to the administration of the european union.
madam president, commissioner, the asylum and migration fund must be a flexible instrument to adapt to future challenges and to the different needs of the member states, and at the same time be sufficiently equipped to cope with new contingencies. the fund needs to be fully integrated into the union migration acquis, secured through the 2015 european agenda on migration, and coordinated with the different proposals of the migration and asylum package and the emergency trust funds for africa and libya. the union should support member states in their actions and measures to alleviate migratory pressures and to fulfil their legal obligations. but they also have to ensure that people arriving in europe have adequate reception and assistance and access to fair, legal and effective asylum procedures. it is a joint commitment. the commission's proposed 1.4 billion for this fund should also be used to intensify joint work with the countries of origin and transit, so that people who are forced to leave their homes do not fall into the hands of criminals. the council conclusions of last december welcomed the work being done in the fight against smugglers, in controlling external borders and in cooperation with countries of origin and transit. however, efforts are still insufficient to end this tragedy. this instrument should therefore be approved and strengthened.
madam president, commissioner avramopoulos, we are coming to the end of this mandate of the european parliament, which was sadly marked by the so-called refugee crisis, which was in reality a crisis of confidence between the member states and, above all, of political will to implement the european law adopted by this european parliament. this european parliament has done its job and it is also doing so by supporting this remarkable report by our colleague, mrs dalli, which is committed to a european asylum and migration fund which, with no less than eur 10.4 billion for the next multiannual financial framework 2021-2027, seeks to provide a response that is consistent with the resolutions we have adopted to give a comprehensive dimension - we call it holistic - to the problem of asylum and refuge, but above all that requires the member states to comply with a minimum percentage of european law in order to make it effective and to be able to access the materialization of these funds, and that realises the principle of solidarity in a real way, which is not wishful thinking, but a binding mandate of european law.
mr president, commissioner avramopoulos, in this session of the european parliament we are effectively promoting and supporting the european asylum and migration fund and the european internal security fund. and we also support this initiative to establish, as part of the european union's integrated external border management fund, the instrument for financial support for border management and visas. because it's about reinforcing, yes, security. and to do so by preserving the most precious asset of the european construction, the one most valued by european citizenship, which is, without a doubt, the free movement of persons. the fund shall increase by no less than five times the amounts currently available in the next multiannual financial framework 2021-2027. it is good for the citizens of europe to know that there will be a strengthening of effective solidarity in the comprehensive management of the union's external borders and in the guarantee of the free movement of persons, but we insist again that it is not fair that so much emphasis has been placed on strengthening the security of the union's external borders when the council has been so slow, so reluctant and so resistant to any progress in the comprehensive understanding of the phenomenon of migration and in helping refugees, where the moral stature of the european construction is really measured.
in writing. although the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) warned the world of the urgent and pressing need to curb ghg emissions, in the eu we spend tons of paper and rivers of ink in endless negotiations to reach minimum agreements that barely meet the paris agreement. we also put a blindfold on our eyes and, in order to protect the free market, we accept products from third countries, without taking into account the emissions generated in their manufacture or transport, while at the same time our industry is relocated because it is cheaper to produce without co2 taxes than to pay the price demanded in europe for polluting. action demands not only that our economies self-impose limits on their emissions; border carbon adjustment should be initiated in any transaction, which would prevent the offshoring of our productive sectors and promote a reduction in emissions in the countries of origin of these commodities. no one pays for the adverse effects of cheap consumption, so these measures should be part of a real strategy to limit global warming, beyond the scenarios put forward by the commission in its communication.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the council and commission, mr barnier - you have certainly done an impeccable job - the agreement reached on monday night by prime minister theresa may and the european union was an opportunity. in reality, it was the opportunity to facilitate an orderly withdrawal: it gave sufficient guarantees about the uk's concern to be trapped indefinitely in the customs union. but it was nevertheless rejected by the british parliament. it has been a further disappointment because of its lack of realism and its lack of responsibility, the lack of responsibility of that majority of british members who are permanently blocking a solution. it is likely that the british parliament will vote against no deal today and vote tomorrow in favour of extending article 50 and delaying its entry into force, but what is not going to change in the european union are the terms of the withdrawal agreement. sooner or later the united kingdom will have to make a decision: deal or no deal, deal or no deal... that's the point. and in this scenario of uncertainty, there are a number of lessons that brexit is leaving behind that we need to take note of. the first is that membership of the european union is a profound transformation in the economy and functioning of a country, and that is why leaving the group is such a difficult and titanic task. decisions like this can't be made cheerfully. the second is that abandoning means directly affecting people's daily lives, the little things that are very important in everyday life: the way in which they can buy the cheapest and most varied products, the health card to travel throughout europe, the costs of roaming... and the third lesson is the depth of the rift it creates in the countries where this can happen, as is happening in the united kingdom. today, the european union is more necessary than ever to meet the global challenges we face. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets.
in writing. leaders of the european council must be brave and turn the spring summit into the sustainability summit. it is not acceptable that we should continue to postpone the fight against climate change. we need to orientate the stability and growth pact, the european semester and the other technical instruments of the union towards a model of sustainability. if we want to avoid a repetition of sad episodes like brexit, we must give our societies a breath of fresh air that brings with it a policy of social cohesion and economic modernisation, both accompanied by an environmental policy. the summit must not forget two other pressing challenges. on 26 may we have an obligation to ensure that the european elections are free and fair. and to do that, the union's leaders must make a greater effort. the obligations assumed by the internet platforms are insufficient. in addition, the reform of asylum policy must be on the agenda. it is a scandal that more lives are being lost in the mediterranean and that the leaders of the union are ignoring the decisions that this parliament has taken to put an end to this human tragedy.
in writing. leaders of the european council must be brave and turn the spring summit into the sustainability summit. it is not acceptable that we should continue to postpone the fight against climate change. we need to orientate the stability and growth pact, the european semester and the other technical instruments of the union towards a model of sustainability. if we want to avoid a repetition of sad episodes like brexit, we must give our societies a breath of fresh air that brings with it a policy of social cohesion and economic modernisation, both accompanied by an environmental policy. the summit must not forget two other pressing challenges. on 26 may we have an obligation to ensure that the european elections are free and fair. and to do that, the union's leaders must make a greater effort. the obligations assumed by the internet platforms are insufficient. in addition, the reform of asylum policy must be on the agenda. it is a scandal that more lives are being lost in the mediterranean and that the leaders of the union are ignoring the decisions that this parliament has taken to put an end to this human tragedy.
in writing. leaders of the european council must be brave and turn the spring summit into the sustainability summit. it is not acceptable that we should continue to postpone the fight against climate change. we need to orientate the stability and growth pact, the european semester and the other technical instruments of the union towards a model of sustainability. if we want to avoid a repetition of sad episodes like brexit, we must give our societies a breath of fresh air that brings with it a policy of social cohesion and economic modernisation, both accompanied by an environmental policy. the summit must not forget two other pressing challenges. on 26 may we have an obligation to ensure that the european elections are free and fair. and to do that, the union's leaders must make a greater effort. the obligations assumed by the internet platforms are insufficient. in addition, the reform of asylum policy must be on the agenda. it is a scandal that more lives are being lost in the mediterranean and that the leaders of the union are ignoring the decisions that this parliament has taken to put an end to this human tragedy.
in writing. leaders of the european council must be brave and turn the spring summit into the sustainability summit. it is not acceptable that we should continue to postpone the fight against climate change. we need to orientate the stability and growth pact, the european semester and the other technical instruments of the union towards a model of sustainability. if we want to avoid a repetition of sad episodes like brexit, we must give our societies a breath of fresh air that brings with it a policy of social cohesion and economic modernisation, both accompanied by an environmental policy. the summit must not forget two other pressing challenges. on 26 may we have an obligation to ensure that the european elections are free and fair. and to do that, the union's leaders must make a greater effort. the obligations assumed by the internet platforms are insufficient. in addition, the reform of asylum policy must be on the agenda. it is a scandal that more lives are being lost in the mediterranean and that the leaders of the union are ignoring the decisions that this parliament has taken to put an end to this human tragedy.
in writing. leaders of the european council must be brave and turn the spring summit into the sustainability summit. it is not acceptable that we should continue to postpone the fight against climate change. we need to orientate the stability and growth pact, the european semester and the other technical instruments of the union towards a model of sustainability. if we want to avoid a repetition of sad episodes like brexit, we must give our societies a breath of fresh air that brings with it a policy of social cohesion and economic modernisation, both accompanied by an environmental policy. the summit must not forget two other pressing challenges. on 26 may we have an obligation to ensure that the european elections are free and fair. and to do that, the union's leaders must make a greater effort. the obligations assumed by the internet platforms are insufficient. in addition, the reform of asylum policy must be on the agenda. it is a scandal that more lives are being lost in the mediterranean and that the leaders of the union are ignoring the decisions that this parliament has taken to put an end to this human tragedy.
in writing. leaders of the european council must be brave and turn the spring summit into the sustainability summit. it is not acceptable that we should continue to postpone the fight against climate change. we need to orientate the stability and growth pact, the european semester and the other technical instruments of the union towards a model of sustainability. if we want to avoid a repetition of sad episodes like brexit, we must give our societies a breath of fresh air that brings with it a policy of social cohesion and economic modernisation, both accompanied by an environmental policy. the summit must not forget two other pressing challenges. on 26 may we have an obligation to ensure that the european elections are free and fair. and to do that, the union's leaders must make a greater effort. the obligations assumed by the internet platforms are insufficient. in addition, the reform of asylum policy must be on the agenda. it is a scandal that more lives are being lost in the mediterranean and that the leaders of the union are ignoring the decisions that this parliament has taken to put an end to this human tragedy.
in writing. leaders of the european council must be brave and turn the spring summit into the sustainability summit. it is not acceptable that we should continue to postpone the fight against climate change. we need to orientate the stability and growth pact, the european semester and the other technical instruments of the union towards a model of sustainability. if we want to avoid a repetition of sad episodes like brexit, we must give our societies a breath of fresh air that brings with it a policy of social cohesion and economic modernisation, both accompanied by an environmental policy. the summit must not forget two other pressing challenges. on 26 may we have an obligation to ensure that the european elections are free and fair. and to do that, the union's leaders must make a greater effort. the obligations assumed by the internet platforms are insufficient. in addition, the reform of asylum policy must be on the agenda. it is a scandal that more lives are being lost in the mediterranean and that the leaders of the union are ignoring the decisions that this parliament has taken to put an end to this human tragedy.
in writing. leaders of the european council must be brave and turn the spring summit into the sustainability summit. it is not acceptable that we should continue to postpone the fight against climate change. we need to orientate the stability and growth pact, the european semester and the other technical instruments of the union towards a model of sustainability. if we want to avoid a repetition of sad episodes like brexit, we must give our societies a breath of fresh air that brings with it a policy of social cohesion and economic modernisation, both accompanied by an environmental policy. the summit must not forget two other pressing challenges. on 26 may we have an obligation to ensure that the european elections are free and fair. and to do that, the union's leaders must make a greater effort. the obligations assumed by the internet platforms are insufficient. in addition, the reform of asylum policy must be on the agenda. it is a scandal that more lives are being lost in the mediterranean and that the leaders of the union are ignoring the decisions that this parliament has taken to put an end to this human tragedy.
madam president, commissioner, the juncker commission has had to adjust its trade policy after the united states' decision to withdraw from the trade and investment agreement. the truth is that the sanctions or tariffs on aluminium, steel and spanish black olives which have to be eradicated are not the best start. in this context, the declaration of july last year and these negotiating directives for agreements to reduce industrial tariffs and non-tariff barriers are an interesting development. but, commissioner, it is important to keep to principles. 'by the way, there are colleagues here who invoke the principles of our trade policy when they have not believed them, and use them as an excuse to reject free trade agreements.' it is important, madam commissioner, to fight for rules-based trade, to reform the world trade organisation, to preserve the paris principles and, above all, madam president, not to give up the agreements in progress: mercosur, australia and new zealand.
madam president, this morning we debated climate change and the right wing has filled its mouth with empty promises. even commissioner cañete seemed concerned about the future of the planet. i say you're not so worried when you've vetoed greta thunberg, only 16 years old. you're afraid to hear the truth. most european policies delve into the suicidal dynamic of accelerating climate change, and here we have the perfect example: resurrecting ttip. they change the name, they chop it up, and they think it'll go unnoticed. commissioner malmström, you have committed yourself to making the implementation of the paris agreement a sine qua non condition for signing trade agreements. we all know how trump feels about climate change and his reneging on the deal, but business is business and it seems that you care more about that than the future of the planet. we have already defeated ttip once, so we know how to do it: with information and with mobilization. but today, in addition, there is a youth standing together with a feminist movement that will not allow them to carry out policies that compromise our future. we need another business model, let's do it while we still have time.
madam president, madam commissioner, i am in favour of transatlantic relations and dialogue as a mechanism to solve the problems we face, but i do not believe that the conditions are in place to negotiate a trade agreement with the united states on the terms proposed by the commission. i think the most important thing in politics is consistency between what you say and what you do. and i want to address all the young people here who are firmly committed to fighting climate change and who are asking us politicians to take action to solve that future. and if we say and approve in this parliament - and the european institutions have shown a firm commitment to combating climate change - we cannot make an exception with a trade agreement with the united states because it relies on industry - which has the most polluting effects - to exclude it from this situation. and we cannot negotiate with someone who has not considered us a reliable partner, who has attacked us by imposing tariffs based on laws that are not justified because they threaten security - the european union is supposed to threaten its security - those are not the conditions for establishing a dialogue as it should be in the future.
madam president, madam commissioner, i want to express my agreement with this negotiating mandate for three reasons. our economy is going to grow more in the next few years because of what we're billing abroad. the three reasons: first, preparing for this situation is mandatory for the european economy and fundamental for smes to be able to operate in that country; second, these agreements are the only way to defend and extend our environmental and social standards; and third, this is not an isolated action. europe has responded to the threat of neo-protectionism and trade wars with the signing of very important agreements, such as the one recently concluded with japan and those being negotiated with other actors that force everyone to move. i want to stress that if all this is possible it is because it is being managed in a feminine way. the lists of grievances, the big words, the testosterone trump loves - it's true, he loves it - but he hides in that noise the failure that the recipes he defends have reaped. and commissioner malmström treasures, in addition to the resume, a capacity to negotiate, but she conducts this with emotional intelligence. that is why the show politics, the short-term headline and the tweeting that is being carried today, will not get you to get up from the table and i ... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you for the opportunity to discuss the european semester today, a topic of particular relevance in these times. the council attaches great importance to the semester and i’m pleased to exchange views with parliament on the subject. if we are all to make europe relevant to people’s daily lives, we need to deliver on growth and jobs, high-quality education, social protection and inclusion, as well as environmental sustainability. we should stress here that it is a question of ownership for the member states. by streamlining reforms, the european semester aims to improve the situation in each member state and in the eu as a whole. an agreement on common objectives is therefore important. your report shows that we recognise these common objectives. i’m glad we have this opportunity to discuss them with you today, and that you have also discussed them recently with national parliaments. to start on a positive note, evidence suggests that europe’s economy is strengthening. employment is growing. investment is recovering and public finances are improving. yet, clearly, many challenges remain. you have identified a number of them in your report. long-term challenges remain, such as population ageing, digitalisation and its impact on work, climate change and unsustainable use of natural resources. boosting investment remains a priority in order to promote a more robust recovery and to secure a healthy growth rate in the long run. the extension of the european fund for strategic investments, in terms of financial capacity, is an important step towards achieving this goal. let us continue to work together to spur social investment and human capital, to lift the remaining barriers and to foster a truly favourable investment climate. furthermore, we need to support growth with smart fiscal policies, while paying close attention to the long-term sustainability of our budgets and debts. we also need to implement the necessary structural reforms in our product and labour markets in order to prepare our economies for the challenges ahead. we must provide our young citizens with high quality education and invest in their skills today. madam president, honourable members, as we are now leaving crisis times behind us, the legacy of the crisis remains a serious concern. some citizens are trapped in a cycle of poverty and social exclusion, which they cannot easily escape from. this is an important issue for the romanian presidency. our policy efforts need to be oriented towards the most vulnerable categories of our citizens. they also need to be oriented towards those regions and sectors that are undergoing the greatest difficulties. we need to think of new solutions to new problems whilst seizing the opportunities ahead of us. the collaborative economy represents a huge potential, but it cannot be a reason to backtrack on employment and social rights. employment and social policies need to adapt to the changes in the labour market, whilst workers rights should remain protected. environment policy, together with greening the economy and greening the european semester, can contribute in a very significant manner to the broad policy objective of stimulating sustainable growth and creating jobs. what is key is to focus on the full implementation of the reforms and carefully to monitor the progress in each member state. we should share our experiences and use best practice examples to learn from each other. only by working together closely, to push consistently for reforms and to keep supporting inclusive growth and job creation, will we be successful in creating tangible benefits for every citizen and in rebuilding trust in a strong and prosperous european union. thank you very much for your attention and for the contribution of the european parliament, in particular the rapporteurs, on this important topic. (applause)
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, europe is set to grow for a seventh year in a row. employment figures stay at record highs and unemployment at record lows. the average levels of both budget deficit and public debt continue to go down. our strategy based on three priorities, investment, structural reforms and fiscal responsibility, is working. yet growth is moderating and risks are mounting. we face trade tensions and a slowdown in emerging economies. concerns about banks, sovereign loans and debt sustainability are resurfacing in some countries. amongst homemade reasons for the slowdown, we also see stalling reform momentum in some member states. some countries still have high unemployment, while others face skills shortages. unresolved structural issues continue to hamper productivity and investment. there are still high levels of inequality within and among eu member states. long-term challenges, such as population ageing, remain pressing. rapid technological change and digitalisation are changing our daily lives and the world of work. that is why decisive action is needed. at national level, we need well-targeted investments and reforms to increase productivity and to foster inclusive growth. good times must be used to reduce high debt and rebuild fiscal buffers. this, unfortunately, is not happening in some member states. at eu level we have made progress on the banking union and the european stability mechanism (esm) reform, but some proposals, on the capital markets union, for example, still await adaptations. at the eurogroup meeting earlier this week we continued discussions on how to support reforms and investments for the sake of competitiveness and convergence. the commission is open to amending our proposal on the reform support programme to serve this purpose. we have just issued our assessment of the economic and social challenges in all member states and, where relevant, of macroeconomic imbalances. we also identified priority areas for investment, providing a basis for a new programming of cohesion funds. regarding macroeconomic imbalances our conclusion is that bulgaria, germany, spain, france, croatia, ireland, the netherlands, portugal, romania and sweden experienced imbalances and cyprus, greece and italy experienced excessive imbalances. for croatia, this is an improvement. we found this year that croatia still has imbalances, but they are no longer excessive. so this is good news, including with regard to preparations for participation in the exchange rate mechanism (erm) ii and eventually for euro area membership. we also found imbalances in the case of romania. this was not the case last year. the reasons are competitiveness losses, widening current account deficits and pro-cyclical expansionary fiscal policy. we remain concerned about italy’s public debt ratio, which is not set to decline, and reform momentum has stalled. in spring we will once again assess italy’s policy steps and the commitments to address imbalances, as well as the level of ambition of the national reform programme. overall, since 2011, member states have made at least some progress on two-thirds of the recommendations but, as i said before, momentum has been slowing. to regain this momentum, member states can count on our structural reform support service that has been providing support for 500 reform projects in 25 countries, with a further 260 projects to be financed this year. to conclude, our focused approach has helped us to steer the recovery and it must serve to keep us on the path of sustainable and inclusive growth. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr vandenkendelaere, and the shadow rapporteurs, for the report and i am looking forward to a constructive debate.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank both rapporteurs, ms harkin and mr vandenkendelaere, for the two reports on the annual growth survey. the positive economic developments continue to translate into sustained job creation. two hundred and forty million people have a job in the european union and this is the highest number ever. unemployment is at 6.5% and this is now the lowest it has ever been in this century. the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion is dropping and now, for the first time, it is below the level of what we recorded in 2008. however (there is also a ‘however’), we must not forget that growth in europe is not benefiting all citizens in the same way, as the rapporteur of the committee on employment and social affairs told us. real household income is still below the 2008 level in some countries. there is still very high youth unemployment in some areas or a high level of poverty, including high in-work poverty in some member states. this is why your report, ms harkin, strongly resonates with our analysis. we take note of your calls to do more on skills, in-work poverty, regulation of new forms of work, labour market inclusion of people with disabilities, work-life balance and housing. since the publication of the annual growth survey last autumn, we have published the country reports on 27 february and those provide a more detailed analysis of the economic and social situation in the member states. for the second year now, we look at the implementation of the european pillar of social rights. the country reports provide an idea of where we stand and of the challenges ahead and they assess policy response by member state. we also look at the social scoreboard. this year, we see progress on all 14 indicators of the social scoreboard. moreover, for the first time, the country reports reflect on the investment needs in each member state and also, more specifically, as regards european funds. our aim is to achieve greater synergies and complementarity between the economic policies, reforms and the cohesion policy funds, and i am confident that the combined efforts of european legislation, coordination of economic policies and european funds will help to make the european pillar of social rights a reality for all citizens.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. madam president, if we are to tackle the challenges and challenges of the european union we must understand that the european semester needs to stop being an instrument that tells countries where they have to spend more or less, where they have to save or cut and become a real element of european policy to ensure economic, social and environmental sustainability. and for that we also need to be able to listen outside these four walls and to understand that we need to understand that people are tired of the austerity policy. let us listen to the millions of women and men who took to the streets of europe on friday 8 march to call for a fairer, more social and more equal europe; let us listen to the young people who will be taking to the streets next friday to call for a europe that is capable of committing itself to the fight against climate change. if we really want to regain the citizens' confidence in the european project, we must move from the policy of austerity to the policy of fair and equal growth for all.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. madam president, today is 13 march, five days after 8 march, when millions of european women took to the streets again to demand their rights. we are discussing the growth and economic prospects of the european union in the context of the european semester debate and the question is completely absent. i have heard virtually no reference to this from the commissioners, nor from the council, and in the report on the annual growth survey the words 'gender equality' appear once, just to mention the pension gap in passing. look, i have only one request in today's debate: this cannot continue in the next term. frankly, having a six-monthly economic policy analysis, country recommendations, and not looking at either the gender impact of any of the structural reforms we're doing, or looking at how we can narrow the wage gap and the pension gap or move towards a more equal society becomes unbearable. so, for the next term, frankly, i hope that this will change from top to bottom.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, dear mrs thyssen, thank you for coming to hear us. i'm going to be very brief and give you a political vision. in spanish, after i greet you. firstly, we must recognize that this mandate has finally placed the emphasis on society, on the social outcome of the crisis and, in particular, on the european social and employment semester. that has to be used much more in the next mandate. secondly, it is said that employment is better than ever, and that is true, but let us not lose sight of the fact that when there is a large unemployment stock in one nation, it is a european problem. the unemployment rate is also a european problem. another thing is inequality. there's still a lot to do. although a crisis is now coming, the next economic and social policies must be given priority to combat the growth of inequalities. and finally, two things which are indispensable for the future, for the achievement of a social europe. firstly, we must have a concerted fiscal economic policy, which will allow redistribution at european level. secondly, it must be admitted that european financial solidarity will be needed, for example, in unemployment and in the fight against unemployment at european level.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, we have lost an opportunity, one more. the european citizen does not want to hear any more that the same policies that have brought us to the critical situation we are in must remain the reference for the years to come. austerity has been a mistake and a failure. the policies of economic crisis management have led to the greatest increase in inequality in europe since the end of the second world war. the euro has become a machine for creating economic and social divergence between our countries and, as a result of this perfect storm, it has increased in a perceptible and critical way the anger of a part of the citizens and a deafening malaise that threatens not only the european institutions but democracy itself. and in the face of the evidence of this situation, our reports continue to tell millions of impoverished, excluded and frightened people that all is well. this is not possible, it is not reasonable, and it seems that there is a clear lack of interest in continuing to believe in this story. news like the so-called "google rate" confirms what millions of people have already seen: not everyone is treated equally. some countries of the union show ruthless hardship towards workers and deplorable servitude towards multinationals and economic elites. this is definitely not the way.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to welcome commissioner dombrovskis again to this parliament. it was not easy to include our proposals and ideas for this regulation as the two co—rapporteurs held onto this file very tightly. nevertheless, we have been active through the whole procedure because we are committed to those people who suffered the most due to non-performing loans. we have always said that non—performing loans (npls) have an inherent human dimension. they were built up because european law was implemented incorrectly. at the very beginning of this regulation, the union acknowledges that there were important laws that were not implemented properly in some member states: the late payment directive, the consumer rights directive and the mortgage credit directive. let me warn you that if we do not improve the implementation of eu law in some member states, we may risk suffering a new wave of npls in some member states in the next few years, even in the event of a new huge financial crisis or another economic crisis. proper implementation is key. proper implementation means prevention and commitment to our values, our rules and our union. parliament cannot fail in approving only one law and not the other. without the directive, the regulation would lose all its meaning and major institutions could not have the legal incentive they need to put their non-performing loans on the market. we consider that this parliament needs to send a strong message. it is therefore important that the whole npl legislative package is approved. this is our responsibility.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, our group shares the need to reduce the package of bad loans on the balance sheets - it is very large - not so much because they are a brake on credit - credit works when there is economic activity and when there is demand - but because they can be and are a major source of financial instability. so it's a goal we share. but we believe that two criteria must prevail. the first is that financial institutions must be made more responsible for lending, and that means a very high demand for the provision of non-performing loans. and secondly, a very great deal of protection for consumers and, in particular, for consumers who cannot meet their credit obligations, because the reduction of delinquent loans cannot be achieved at the very high social cost that was achieved in some countries, as was the case in spain. so that was our will and these are our objectives, with which we approached this debate. i have to say that we are not satisfied with the regulation that is before us. so we shall not vote for it for a number of specific reasons which i shall explain in detail below. firstly, because the provisions for future non-performing loans are too long. the commission proposed that an appropriation should be provisional at 100% after eight years. you propose up to nine. we proposed seven, following the advice of the european central bank, because we thought it was a reasonable timetable but, of course, a little more demanding. and finally, because you say that this regulation will come into force three years after its approval. and finally, we too proposed that this regulation should touch on some of the earlier appropriations, so that all the appropriations which became overdue after 1 march would be included. you only propose that all those credits issued from 1 april onwards should be covered. so we are not happy at all. and we are also concerned that, having separated the two files, the whole consumer protection part of the directive will be left to itself. because if the negotiating dynamic is the same as we've had on this record, which is basically a grand coalition agreement, well that really doesn't bode well. i therefore hope at least that the small groups will be taken more into account in the negotiation of the directive.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, the first thing i want to say is that the intention to introduce the european stability mechanism into the community acquis was a good idea, but we are not really going to do that. what we are going to do is to introduce a mechanism, which will remain purely intergovernmental in its functioning, within the community acquis, but we are not fully communitizing the functioning of the european stability mechanism, which is bad news. we also have a problem with the role of parliament in this reform. finally, as some members have said, we should be in the middle of the codecision procedure and not merely in an approval procedure which forces us to make this report in the middle of a debate. the european stability mechanism has had a lot of problems from the beginning because of its opacity, because of the way it made conditionality, because of the way memoranda of understanding were signed... mr regling gave us lessons on everything, but he never came to the european parliament to give explanations, and we have been working with an institution which is practically in a state of economic exception, without any democratic control. i certainly think that the experience of leaving the commission in operation in recent years has been one of the most negative we have had, with rescues that have been carried out at a very high social cost and without any democratic legitimacy. i therefore believe that it was important not only to include this regulation - as i said - in the community acquis without touching on anything at all, but also to review in depth the functioning of the mechanism. for example, we had proposed and wanted the report to reflect that the european budget should contribute to the financial mechanisms of the european stability mechanism, because in that way we could exercise budgetary control over its activity, which has not been accepted, but which will be on the ballot in an amendment that we have tabled. the second thing we also wanted to have in the text is that future adjustment programmes should be delegated acts. why would you do that? because that would allow the european parliament to exercise our legal rights and reject them. but it seems like he didn't want to be accepted either. but we shall nevertheless table it as an amendment in the house. or, also, another amendment we are going to table is that there is something we have been asking for a very long time: analysis of social impact, especially in the things that the mechanism does and the policies that it develops, something that has not been done. in greece, for example, it has not been done, and it has been a disaster. and also more control over the appointment of the executive director. we ask for capacity in his appointment, but in a truly democratic process of parliament with a quorum over which we can choose. finally, the question of the safeguard mechanism: it is very good that the esdp is to function as a safeguard mechanism, but a safeguard mechanism does not work if it requires unanimity in the council. we should also have introduced a request that the protection mechanism should be automatically activated on the basis of certain criteria. a safeguard mechanism subject to unanimity in the council is frankly not a safeguard mechanism. i have to say, therefore, that we are not satisfied with the report or the reform it proposes.
madam president, commissioner, since the beginning of the economic crisis the shortcomings of the euro architecture have become clear, and above all the need to continue working on and deepening economic and monetary union. and it is true that steps have been taken in this direction, especially in reducing risks, but we still have a lot to work on, such as completing the european deposit guarantee system or having a real euro zone budget that will allow the euro zone countries to defend themselves against new economic crises. and it is under this umbrella of economic and monetary union that we are debating today the reform of the current european stability mechanism, which was already launched in 2012 but which, in the opinion of this parliament, needs to be modified. and in this sense, for example, we believe that this european stability mechanism should be integrated into the legal framework of the union. this integration would allow management in accordance with the community method and would also, among other things, facilitate the coordination of economic and fiscal policies and give it greater democratic legitimacy. i also think it would be interesting if the european budget could contribute to this mechanism, because it would give the european parliament the possibility of exercising budgetary control and, in addition, the court of auditors the possibility of acting as the external auditor. the socialists have denounced on countless occasions the abusive conditionality and excessive adjustments which were demanded of the countries under the troika's mandate. the damage caused has even been acknowledged by some of the leaders of the european union and that is why, looking to the future, we also demand that the adjustment programmes take account of the social impact of the measures proposed so as not to repeat the mistakes of the past. i am aware that these are merely recommendations from the european parliament and that they do not really have any legal value, but they do have important political value, so i hope that you will take them into account.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am able to represent the commission on behalf of mrs bulc, who is ill, but i am grateful that the debate is taking place here in such a constructive way. i am very grateful to mr pieper for his role in bringing the report and its content to parliament, and i am grateful to the committee for the substantial content which has resulted from his work. both the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs have done important work here. the adoption of the new regulation on the protection of fair competition in air transport is a major milestone in the implementation of our european aviation strategy, which was adopted by the commission four years ago and can now also find a legal basis here. this legislation is a core element of our fair competition toolbox in european aviation and in foreign policy towards other countries when it comes to fair competition. the changes in this sector of the transport of people, goods and cargo in aviation around the world are considerable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is about air traffic to and from the european union, and we currently have half of the airlines based in the eu and competitors based in third countries. we accept and value this competition, but we also value connectivity, regardless of who provides it. for flights into the eu, third country airlines have our guarantee that certain european rules apply to them in the same way as to eu companies. we as the eu want to guarantee fair competition on equal terms. however, we note that, unchanged and in some cases increasingly eu, companies outside the eu do not always find the same fair conditions, but that disadvantage and discrimination can take place there. we as the commission, with the support of this house, are pursuing the idea of competition based on a multilateral framework and globally harmonised rules, but neither the wto nor the icao guidelines are realistic for fair competition in the near future, and that is why we as the eu are currently negotiating comprehensive air transport agreements with third countries which are aimed at this fair competition. until now, flights between the eu and third countries have been governed mainly by agreements between individual eu member states. but a 28 or 27 eu member state approach to third countries does not seem very wise, and that is why the regulation to be agreed now provides the basis for the eu to be a credible and efficient instrument with which we can stop and also adequately combat unfair practices in the interests of our member states, our citizens, jobs and airlines. the regulation before you tonight, which you helped to draft, is fundamentally different from its predecessor, which was adopted in 2004 and was inefficient, in fact not really practical. the present regulation is adapted to the specificities of the present aviation sector and its procedures are clearer, more effective and more efficient. the commission continues to attach great importance to the negotiation of air transport agreements with third countries and in its relations with its partners in third countries, the eu will always give priority to dialogue and negotiated solutions over unilateral measures. in this sense, i believe that today is an important day for fair competition between eu and non-eu companies and also for our citizens, who can and should fly with both.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. other mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to welcome you back to this parliament. mr president, in the context of increased competition between air transport operators at global level, fair competition, with a level playing field, is an indispensable general principle that the eu has to push for. calling for the same rules and fair competition for all carriers cannot be labelled as mere protectionism. just as i have been calling on some european carriers to restructure and to stop receiving state aid, i now call for more financial transparency and clearer rules regarding third-country carriers' operations in europe and their investments in the eu. europe represents 500 million potential passengers for third-country air carriers' routes to asia. they fly to europe to feed their respective hubs and fill their planes. increasing traffic towards asia should be borne in mind when the commission is negotiating comprehensive aviation agreements with the rest of the world. i believe the eu should link the financial transparency clause in the aviation agreements to third-country investment in eu airlines. if third-country airlines receive subsidies, why should they be able to control eu airlines achieving the same results? this, to me, is not fair competition.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for this report on the 2020 budget guidelines, the last budget in the current mff and a budget that should be a bridge to the next mff. on many aspects it can be a good starting point for the upcoming negotiations. for instance, the report is right when regretting that the union is falling short of our climate goals, and that we are not even in a position of achieving the moderate 20% target of climate-related spending. this morning, we’ve heard here in the presence of young climate activists a debate on the need to take action against climate change. these engaged youngsters asked for urgency in delivering a climate-neutral economy based on renewables as soon as possible, but we are not delivering, not in climate change mitigation, not in halting biodiversity loss and time is running out. that’s why we need a much greener budget, that’s why we need climate-mainstreaming and climate-proofing. that’s why we need to act once and for all in accordance with the paris agreement and the sdgs. the report is also right when calling for a higher social ambition in the next budget. yes, without social cohesion, there is no union of equal citizens. we need more resources for the youth employment initiative, to fight against poverty and for the integration of migrants. we need to deliver on the pillar of social rights, because social rights are also european added value. it is also positive that the report underlines the need to bolster innovation, technological transformation and digitalisation, but the report is wrong in insisting on the need to fund defence through the eu budget. the defence spending that many of you see as a priority will be inefficient. it won’t address in the correct way problems of fragmentation, duplication and overcapacity, and there are indeed other much more pressing priorities to be covered by the eu budget. finally, a word on the procedure. members of the committee on budgets and commissioner oettinger will surely remember what happened with article 15.3 of the financial regulation during the last conciliation. this time, from the very beginning of the budget negotiation, we say very clearly that we want this provision to be used. this time we shouldn’t be fooled again. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you very much for the question. that could trigger a long debate and maybe we could go into the details of the next mff. of course, budgets cannot grow forever, because resources are limited, but a budget has two sides — expenditure and income — and we have to approach also the income side of the budget, which will be the way that will allow us to increase, little by little, not in a huge way, the resources, the budget, that the eu needs; because i believe in a stronger european union — contrary to you —, and for this i think we need more resources and more budget.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy - situation in nicaragua (2019/2615 ((rsp)).
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, thank you for this opportunity to discuss the situation in nicaragua and for the excellent cooperation over these weeks. the european external action service and the european parliament have been working hand in hand, showing in practice, how different institutions can work towards the same goal. let me also thank honourable member ramón jáuregui for his strong commitment and for heading the european parliament delegation to the country. the situation in nicaragua remains tense. although the most visible part of the violent repression has passed, there are still so many political prisoners unlawfully arrested. several of them face charges of terrorism for having taken part in demonstrations. jail conditions for a number of prisoners are unacceptable. civil society organisations and independent journalists are continuously harassed and many have had their legal status cancelled. the european union has been clear in condemning this state of affairs, most recently in the january foreign affairs council conclusions. we have called on the authorities to free all political prisoners and ensure due process and decent conditions for all. we have urged for a genuine dialogue to be resumed and for political reforms to be enacted. we are ready to use all our policy instruments in response to developments in the country. the ad-hoc delegation of the european parliament, led by ramón jáuregui, accompanied by our head of delegation in managua, has greatly contributed to amplifying these messages. i’m glad that you managed to have a full programme of meetings with the opposition, civil society organisations, independent journalists and families of victims and prisoners to visit inmates without any restriction and to engage in a direct discussion with president ortega and his wife, president murillo. i understand that many of these encounters were heavily charged and emotional, and that it took a lot of courage and stubbornness to organise them, but they were necessary and important and we are truly grateful for your work. some recent events give us some hope and i am convinced that our work has contributed to creating a more positive climate. first, the government of nicaragua held high-level meetings with the organisation of american states, with some international actors and the business community. second, 100 prisoners were sent home under house arrest. this was one of the requests that the european parliament’s delegation had made to president ortega. finally, meetings with the opposition started on 27 february. these initial meetings led to the adoption of a roadmap, setting rules for a negotiation process and identifying participants. the possible inclusion of witnesses and international guarantors for the agreements to be reached remains a sticking point, as do possible re-conditions related to a further release of prisoners. we are available to consider technical support to the mediation, should that be necessary. the un, the organisation of american states and possibly the european union might be asked to be involved in the process. although these are encouraging developments compared to a few weeks ago, we remain very cautious. we still do not know how serious the government is about restoring fundamental rights, as enshrined in the constitution, in particular, freedom of assembly and expression. heavy police presence in managua is maintained. the change of the penitentiary regime for 100 prisoners is a positive step, but we do not forget the over 600 prisoners who remain in jail, often in inhuman conditions and some of them on hunger strike. nor will we forget that all the accused must enjoy due process and justice as guaranteed by the constitution of nicaragua. this is why the civic alliance is pressing for prisoner’s rights and their release. we need to see how far the government is willing to go in opening up to the opposition demands and to engage in political reforms. the partisan management of the regional elections on the caribbean coast of nicaragua a few days ago did not demonstrate a willingness to do things differently. i hope that a renewal of the supreme and electoral courts in april will not be another missed opportunity to change course. we must also salute the work done by the opposition in learning from the mistakes of the failed dialogue in july 2018. we hope more result-driven negotiations will enable all nicaraguans to feel represented, find justice and, eventually, cast their votes freely for the future of their country. so, despite the legitimate doubts that we may have about this nascent process, despite the open wounds and the many victims still seeking justice, we should all encourage the steps currently being taken. we now expect a negotiating table and further concrete signs from the government side, as this is the best way to achieve a peaceful way out of the current crisis. we europeans will remain vigilant and ready to react to any further deterioration of human rights and the rule of law, and we will continue to accompany any positive step towards a political solution to the crisis, together with our international partners. let me thank the european parliament once again. your engagement will continue to be precious in the weeks ahead. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow the european parliament will vote on a resolution calling for nicaragua's suspension from the central american association agreement and, at the same time, the introduction of targeted sanctions for all those responsible for the serious human rights violations that have occurred and are still occurring in the country. during our visit in january, to which you referred, mr commissioner, the european parliament was able to note - as other international missions have already done, the inter-american commission on human rights, the group of independent experts, the high representative of the united nations, who, incidentally, have not been able to return to the country - that the situation in nicaragua is not compatible with the human rights clause, which is an essential element of our association agreement. in the resolution adopted by our parliament on 31 may we already noted the murders that had taken place, the arbitrary arrests, the torture and the disregard for all fundamental rights, including the right to freedom of the press. you were right, commissioner, that our visit to the prisons of nicaragua was particularly moving. it is hard to see 20-year-olds sentenced to more than 30 or 35 years in prison. unfortunately, the information we have received from managua is that there are still more than 600 political prisoners, as you said. the women we met in la esperanza prison are on hunger strike for ill-treatment and several prisoners have also been ill-treated in modelo prison. i think we would be doing a disservice to the cause we are defending, commissioner, and we would be disappointing the expectations of the nicaraguan people if we were complacent about this situation. that is why it is essential, for this national dialogue to be successful, that the political prisoners be released immediately and unconditionally, that the harassment of the opposition be stopped and that the exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms, including the right to freedom of the press, be guaranteed, and that a road map be established, commissioner - which has not yet been drawn up - so that the citizens of nicaragua can once again take control of their destiny and speak out. i believe, commissioner, that we in this parliament have done a very dedicated job, with great patience, but the time has come, commissioner, to turn words into deeds. unfortunately, the situation has not suffered or experienced a positive development in the country and i think we have to be consistent with the principles we practice. we have had a debate in the house this week on a mechanism for implementing the democratic clause. the case of nicaragua is a paradigmatic case, mr president, and i urge the commission to be consistent with the decision we are going to take tomorrow in this parliament.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the commissioner for his words on the collaboration between the european parliament and the european external action service in this area. i'll start by making a small confession to you too, if you like, intimate. the whole delegation of the european parliament, which visited nicaragua for four days, was moved by everything we saw and heard, and felt a great sense of compassion for it. and i want to start by saying that this parliament stands with the people of nicaragua; with the people who mourn their dead; with the people who suffer because their sons are in prison; with the people who suffer restrictions on freedom. this is a very serious, very serious, absolutely reprehensible breach of what we call the rule of law and the conditions of freedom and democracy. this is happening in nicaragua. i would like to address my colleagues on the left, who have made an amendment to our resolution saying that there should be no interference by the united states in nicaragua. no, your honor, there is no interference. the problem, mr pimenta, is that there is a revolution that has become totalitarian. sorry, there was a revolution that became totalitarian. there was a revolution that was historically explained and which, unfortunately, crushes liberties and crushes your people. i have always called for freedom from the left. "socialism is freedom", we've always said. and the european parliament supports those people. the european parliament is in favour of a serious dialogue. i hope there will be a serious dialogue! but it has three basic conditions that are not being met. the first is that political prisoners must be released. the second is that there can be no restrictions on freedom, that there has to be free movement for leaders, for social movements. and the third is that international organizations have to be brought back into the country, because they are respectable and they are the credit and the observatory that human rights are being fulfilled. and the political position of the european parliament is that if that dialogue goes ahead - as the commissioner has said - europe will help. i tell commander ortega, if there is a serious dialogue and there is a path to freedom, we will help. but if you don't, if you want to waste time, if you deceive the people, there will be sanctions.
on behalf of the alde group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: they are all radical opponents of the government of daniel ortega. for those who understand that this government is the victim of the reactionary mercenaries of imperialism, i will illustrate: they are my sandinista comrades in the struggle against somoza, against the dictatorship of anastasio somoza, where i was and where i was wounded on the southern front, benjamin zeledón. it was an honor to be there. they are the commanders and ministers of true sandinismo, betrayed today by daniel ortega; they are the ones who, from the barricades, from the prison, from persecution and torture, defended and today continue to defend freedom, democracy and dignity for their nicaraguan homeland, which is also mine. i would remind you that of the six members of the national directorate, five are against the regime, the sandinista national directorate, as are all the members of the 1979 revolutionary government board, as are thousands of sandinista comrades. they are the true sandinistas, today persecuted by daniel ortega for defending the same thing they defended yesterday against somoza: freedom and dignity. repression, exile, hundreds of deaths, corruption, violation of human rights, that is today the nicaragua of daniel ortega, defended, from sectarianism or ignorance, by revolutionaries of the salon to the last nicaraguan, of course. because they don't care about nicaragua, but their own myths, their own stories, someone else's revolution, but never their own. the motion for a resolution which will be tabled tomorrow is the result of a general consensus. the european union's agreement with nicaragua must be suspended and personal sanctions imposed on daniel ortega and the government which is repressing and imprisoning its own comrades, its own people. and from the bottom of my heart, i say what i said in 1979: long live free nicaragua!
mr president, mr commissioner, please help us! that was the cry of helplessness of the prisoners of la esperanza prison - "subjected daily to continuous beatings, to inhuman treatment, deprived of their most basic rights and unable to see their families" - when we visited them last january. they are innocent. they are in prison simply for defending their ideas in a country ruled by a tyrant where peace, freedom and democracy are not guaranteed, where fundamental rights are not respected, where freedom of expression and assembly are not defended. women, however, who, despite all that they are suffering, do not give up, and so they confessed it to us with admirable fortitude. after all they told us and what we saw, we demanded from the prison authorities, the vice minister and ortega himself that there be no reprisals. but once again the tyrant did the opposite and the escalation of repression continued, increasing even more, until now, a month and a half later, we are in an unsustainable situation. the reality in nicaragua is extremely worrying, at least for all of us who feel democratic and defend fundamental rights not only for ourselves but also for citizens of any country. since the crisis in nicaragua began, more than 300 people have been killed, 1 400 injured, nearly 700 political prisoners and almost 50 000 people have been exiled. do these figures not seem sufficient? i personally find them chilling and i believe that this parliament cannot stand by for one more second. europe has to do something. you have to act. the commission is also responsible for restoring democracy in nicaragua. the union must be involved and show its firmness. a regime like that of ortega murillo cannot ask the opposition for dialogue. it's a hoax. for there to be a real dialogue, it is essential that the political prisoners be released immediately and that all forms of abuse or intimidation against the nicaraguan people cease. it's all right. nicaragua deserves to live in peace, and the groups in this house should therefore convey this to the revolutionary who betrayed - as has been well said - an entire country just by seizing power. these tyrants who came with pseudo-democratic subterfuges to appear to hold a certain democratic patent or credential are also afraid of free and democratic elections. you know why? because they know they do not have the support of the majority and, moreover, they are afraid of losing the privileges of their looting and corrupt giants. i am here today to defend the imposition of specific sanctions against the members of the ortega government and their henchmen. if they do not respect the principles of the rule of law, democracy and the most basic principles of human dignity, the democratic clause must be activated so that nicaragua can be excluded from the eu-central america association agreement.
mr president, first of all, and although he is absent, i would like to tell mr pimenta lopes that there are no political prisoners in spain. spain is a state governed by the rule of law, a modern and consolidated democracy, and no matter how many times they repeat it, we will not accept them saying calmly that there are political prisoners in spain. i hope someone will give him the message. secondly, i could also hear that there are very few people in the progressive world who argue that daniel ortega has operated one of the greatest perversions that can be operated in the direction of a country, in the name of a revolution that surprised the whole world and that the whole world admired. on that revolution, daniel ortega has ended up constituting an absolutely totalitarian regime. that is why this parliament decided to act and why a representative of this house, led by our colleague ramón jáuregui - whose work has already been praised by the commissioner and i repeat - decided that we should raise our voice in this house to join the voice of the entire democratic opposition of the nicaraguan people to call for dialogue, yes, but dialogue as long as the minimum conditions that have already been expressed by my colleagues are met: the freedom of political prisoners, freedom of expression and an end to repression. we cannot continue to sit at a table while the repression continues. that is the voice that this parliament raises and which we hope will be heard by the regime of daniel ortega.
mr president, commissioner, the violent repression of critics by the nicaraguan government, the expulsion of uncomfortable witnesses, is a planned strategy to destroy the opposition. the current rulers apply today to their fellow citizens the methods of somoza; those they fought. this has been confirmed - as reported today - by members of the parliamentary mission that visited the country in january. it's time to act. let's put yesterday's opponents in front of the mirror of their degradation. a lasting solution to this crisis requires the release of political prisoners and an end to repression, harassment, espionage and persecution. fundamental freedoms must be restored. the conditions for starting a dialogue. also, as detailed in the joint resolution, the european union external action service and the member states should initiate a gradual sanctions procedure which, without affecting the population, identifies and penalizes members of the government involved in violations of fundamental rights. it is also time to invoke the democratic clause in the association agreement between the union and central america in order to suspend nicaragua.
mr president, a month ago in this house, as our colleague mr gabriel mato did today, we heard about the case of young nicaraguans who were imprisoned in their country, in the prison 'oh, paradox! la esperanza' 'what a name!' and who had been subjected to reprisals for having spoken to a delegation of european parliamentarians who had visited them. well, the mistreatment in nicaraguan prisons must stop - as we all demand - and the deprivation of liberty of these young women and other political prisoners must also stop. daniel ortega's regime also has been told has to take seriously negotiating with the civic alliance opponents and meet their minimum demands. one of them is the release of political prisoners. the repression of the press must also be brought to an end and, finally, other demands which we have included in the motion for a resolution which we shall be voting on tomorrow. since april last year - it has also been said - there have been nearly 400 deaths and well over a thousand injuries in the crisis in nicaragua, which was triggered by the demonstrations against the regime. the crisis must be resolved through negotiations with the opposition and, as we have been demanding in this parliament since our resolution of 31 may last year, it must culminate in fair, transparent and credible elections. a consensual electoral reform is essential for this. i would ask the institutions of the european union, commissioner, and in particular the european external action service, to keep a close eye on the events in nicaragua. it seems to me that it is now inevitable to impose specific sanctions on those responsible for the country and for these serious human rights violations that have occurred. i also think that nicaragua's suspension from the association agreement between the european union and latin america should be prepared. it is a question of activating the so-called democratic clause of the agreement. and that's the end of it. we want for the nicaraguans, as well as for the venezuelans, the same things we want for ourselves: freedom, respect for human rights, the rule of law and prosperity. and from here we must contribute to it.
mr president, i will start by replying to what my colleague on the left said about his youthful attachment to ortega. i lived in communist czechoslovakia when i was young, and i remember daniel ortega going to czechoslovakia and hugging communist papalashas and then-communist president gustav husak. so it doesn't surprise me where daniel ortega has led nicaragua and where he has led his dictatorship. i am very sceptical, commissioner, that it is possible to agree with ortega on any long-term changes to this regime. in my opinion, the only solution is democratic elections and the departure of this political brontosaurus to the dustbin of history. he is a man who has destroyed this country, who can't bring it any future, and we should use all the pressure, all the sanctions to push nicaragua to free elections and regime change.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, allow me to thank all the honourable members for their commitment in helping the nicaraguans to find a democratic and peaceful way out of the current crisis. the cooperation between this parliament and european diplomacy has been exemplary in many ways in making the eu voice heard in nicaragua. i would also like to thank parliament’s president, mr tajani, for his personal commitment in favour of democracy and human rights in nicaragua. we have listened carefully to the many calls from honourable members to adopt sanctions in the case of nicaragua. i am confident that the european external action service and the council will follow and monitor the process of the political dialogue that is now under way – or which we hope is under way – and that the council will not lose any time in adopting sanctions, be it individual sanctions or an arms embargo, the moment we see that the political dialogue process is being derailed or used to buy time in nicaragua. allow me to conclude by saluting the members of this house who, at the end of january, played an essential part in helping to unlock the situation in managua, engaging with the opposition and the government and passing on the strong eu message. this has helped to open up a space for what we hope will be a serious and result—oriented dialogue.
six motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate, in accordance with rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
the next item is the report of mr tadeusz zwiefka, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the council regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and the matters of parental responsibility, and on international child abduction (recast) (com ((2016) 0411 - c8-0322/2016 - 15401/2018 - c8-0023/2019 - 2016/0190 ((cns)) (a8-0056/2019).
mr president, commissioner mimica, it is a giant step, or it is not, that, since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the european union has, for the first time, legislative capacity in the field of family law, divorce, separation, annulment of marriages and parental responsibilities in cross-border relationships. of course it is. but is there a limit to this giant leap? it also has them: unanimity in the council and the consultative procedure of the european parliament. and yet, yes, we support the step that is being taken, because it is a positive step in the abolition of the exequatur, in the strengthening of the right of children to be heard, in the clarification of the rules on the removal of children and in the mutual recognition of crossborder judicial decisions in the european union. but it is an opportunity to underline what is still outstanding - the recognition of the various forms of family, de facto couples, same-sex couples, same-sex marriages recognised in some relevant member states, such as spain - and, of course, to recall the importance of precisely the legislative reinforcement of the european parliament and the importance of the composition of the european parliament that we will decide on 26 may.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this debate, which covered many valid points. your vote tomorrow will pave the way for the successful conclusion of the negotiations under the romanian presidency so that the new rules can be applied to help families in difficult situations and to protect children in particular. so thank you once again for your support.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
the rapporteur. madam president, mr vice-president, first of all, let me thank the co-rapporteur, mrs theocharous, and the alternate rapporteurs of the development committee and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for the ease and understanding with which they have made it possible for us to reach agreement on an issue which concerns us all, namely the sustainable development goals. we discussed climate change yesterday and climate action is one of the objectives that will be reviewed this summer at the high-level political forum organized by the united nations. the new generations of europeans are demanding concrete action from us, and it is our responsibility to respond to them and to be clear. we must explain what we have done so far. we must explain the european success of cop 21, the first international treaty to become environmentally neutral. we must explain that during this term of office, under the juncker commission - and with commissioner arias cañete at the head, both from the european people's party, both from my political group - and with the ambition of this house, we have made more progress than ever in the fight against climate change. we have approved the circular economy package. we've reviewed the energy package and the renewable energy upgrade. we have revised the common electricity regulation, including energy poverty in that regulation for the first time. we have renewed the european emissions market. we have adopted the national boundary regulations. the commission has just sent us new implementing and delegated acts on ecodesign, which we have also reported on. we've submitted a clean air package. we have adopted a single-use plastic directive. in short, we have sown the seeds of the union's economic transformation. we have sown the seeds of the european industrial revolution of the 21st century. and we can't fool the people. nature cannot be changed overnight, although this is difficult to assume in the age of immediacy. climate change is not mitigated by posting a photo of a protest on instagram, although we would like it to be. we must act with a sense of responsibility and periodically review our progress in research and development, in order to update our objectives and become more and more ambitious. otherwise, if our industry is offshored, we will not be sustainable in any way, not environmentally, not socially, not economically. we must therefore see the sdgs as an opportunity. we must be ambitious, yes, but with our feet on the ground. we must seize the opportunity that is before us to renew jobs, to end inequalities within the union, to establish fair wages that will enable workers to maintain a dignified life and to progress, as leo xiii said. we must use the sdgs to reinvent ourselves, not to create more structures. we are mistaken if we think that by putting an sdg officer in each directorate-general or by creating a team we will be able to transform it. it is not about more structures but about a change of mindset; about improving the instruments for redistributing wealth; about deepening and strengthening the social market economy we have integrated into the union, creating jobs that are competitive and with companies and industries that are based in europe, not off-shore; about creating jobs with high added value and about transforming our economy so that we are not anchored in the past. to paraphrase jules verne, "the earth does not need new continents, it needs new women and men".
madam president, in september, the first meeting of heads of state will be held to assess progress on the 2030 agenda and will be the time to close the gaps in the implementation of the sustainable development goals. policy coherence for development must be enforced in all areas and at all levels, but the elephant in the room is called trade policy. we must give the sustainable development goals a gender perspective, and they must also be the guiding principles of our agricultural, fisheries and consumer policies, and of course we must align the multiannual financial framework with the objectives of the agenda. the progress that is being made is insufficient - that is clear - and will remain so as long as some key questions remain taboo, because despite investing millions in sustainable development, we never hear about some fundamental issues. when we debate the goal of "zero hunger", we must dare to talk about food sovereignty and restrict food speculation; when we talk about "ending poverty", let's talk about ending extreme wealth; when we talk about "health and well-being", let's ask about the privatization of health and patents; and, instead of dogmatically pleading the goal of economic growth, let's seek balance on a planet that is finite. mr timmermans, saving the oppressed has always been romantic, but from here, i propose that we start by identifying the forces that oppress them and putting a stop to them.
the rapporteur. madam president, mr vice-president, i thank you again for the words you heard in the debate this morning. i hope that the debate we have had here and the vote we will have this afternoon will serve to encourage and renew efforts to achieve an emissions-neutral society as soon as possible. but europe being emissions neutral, if we don't get other major players to join us, will do little good. the union is ready to lead - and indeed is leading - the process of achieving the 2030 agenda's objectives, but as in the fable of the tortoise and the hare, it is not because we are the fastest that we will reach the goal first. let us stay on the path, let us not fall asleep and we will achieve the goals we have set for ourselves. that is why, as commissioner arias cañete said yesterday, the parliament and the commission that emerge from the next elections will be key to this. you said that today too, mr timmermans. they shall be responsible for the financial framework 2021-2027. they will be responsible for such major revisions as the water framework directive linked to agenda 2030 objective 6. but it is not just the commission's job, nor is it just the european parliament's job. we must ensure multi-level collaboration and governance because the competences we have in europe are limited. we must organise dialogues and involve the local, regional, national and european levels to lead, together with the common foreign policy, the achievement of these objectives. we must preserve the union, guarantee its diversity, listen to all voices, however small, so that we all feel part of this union. the sustainable development goals are the key to broadening the sense of belonging to this peace project that is europe and to moving beyond the usual comment of 'what are you doing in europe' to 'what have we done in europe'. and what we do, mr vice-president - you are absolutely right - is not a matter of right or left, it is a matter of being european and wanting to lead the world and we must be one in that. we're responsible for it.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, the european union's trade policy, through the generalised system of preferences, promotes sustainable development and respect for human rights in the countries with the most vulnerable economies in the world. as my colleague mr fjellner's report shows, the gsp has brought economic benefits to the beneficiary countries by increasing their exports, and also to the european union. overall, the gsp has been shown to play an important role in promoting international labour rights, human rights, good governance and environmental protection standards in the beneficiary countries. but we must not forget that in some cases this increase in exports has had unintended effects on fundamental rights and social development. in this connection, i would like to point out that trade preferences must be accompanied by the implementation of international conventions and reforms, in order to avoid gsp programmes leading to increased levels of environmental and social dumping.
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, thank you, commissioner, and i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work. i am very much in favour of the system of generalised preferences because it is a fundamental tool of trade policy for promoting sustainable development in the least developed countries. the abolition of tariffs in these countries in return for the promotion of human, labour and environmental rights and good governance has certainly promoted better employment and enabled us to fight the scourge of child exploitation and corruption and to help combat poverty. but progress is still not enough and unfortunately we are seeing serious setbacks in some countries. that is why reform is essential and i am glad that it will be receptive to the proposals contained in this report. because it is necessary to strengthen the effectiveness of the system, to control its implementation and to ensure that concessions are withdrawn as a last resort in the event of serious breaches of the commitments made. we also need to put due diligence and transparency obligations on our companies because we cannot allow it to happen in other less developed countries - taking advantage of lower labour and environmental protections - and then sell those products in our countries at zero duty. and i also think it's very important to encourage companies that (inaudible) produce sustainably. let's improve regulation and dig deeper into a system that has worked but needs better implementation.
mr president, commissioner mimica, i think that we are dealing with a very special case when we talk about human rights violations in kazakhstan, given that kazakhstan enjoys a privileged relationship with the european union, an important association agreement that distinguishes it as a giant in central asia in its strategic relations with the european union. but in kazakhstan there has been a terrible democratic backsliding. a life-long president, nursultan nazarbayev, whose leadership in kazakhstan dates back to the soviet union, and persecution of opponents of the concentration of power in the nazarbayev family and clan, including mukhtar dzhakishev, who has been the subject of special attention by the un human rights committee and by the spanish authorities, because there has been diplomatic pressure to try to extradite kazakh opponents residing in european union countries. this case of mukhtar dzhakishev is particularly bloody because he is suffering from torture and his fundamental rights have been systematically violated in prison, and he has therefore received a clear message from the un human rights committee that the european union should support him diplomatically.
author. mr president, for the second time this parliament is going to issue an urgent resolution on the serious human rights situation in guatemala. the european union is making great efforts in international cooperation with this central american country. however, the backsliding on fundamental rights and the rule of law is becoming more and more worrying. the growing role of the military in government is driving reforms like the national reconciliation act that will end up amnestiing criminals. the persecution against the cicig is increasing as the accusations of the prosecutor's office are reaching high officials and even the president of the government himself. twenty-six human rights defenders were killed in the country in 2018, to which we must add also four journalists. these are crimes that go largely unpunished. and despite international support, people like lolita chavez are still unable to return to their country and bernardo caal remains in prison without a fair trial. it is only necessary to remind the guatemalan government that, as this resolution we are about to adopt states, its suspension as a member of the european union-central america agreement will have to be assessed if the human rights safeguard clauses are not respected.
the international commission against impunity in guatemala has done an excellent job in its eleven years of operation, contributing to the investigation of more than 100 cases, the conviction of more than 300 people and the introduction of 34 legal reforms. everything was going fine until the commission implicated relatives of president jimmy morales. when he put the focus on his own, the commission stopped being useful. morales is involved in a nationalist rhetoric that we already know and demonstrates that, although it does not reach the criminal levels of the venezuelan regime, reactionary populism can be as harmful to institutions as the bolivarian one. the case of guatemala reminds us of the benefits of international cooperation and governance, with human rights and democracy as basic principles. the european union must press for an end to human rights violations, for investigations into corruption to continue and for impunity to never return to guatemala.
author. mr president, thank you for the effort in pronunciation. we are talking about a country, guatemala, which is an extremely poor country with enormous inequalities; a country with a very large subculture of violence and with a very dangerous presence of drug trafficking. we are talking about a country with too much corruption and we are talking about a country that has - yes, it is true, you all said it - serious breaches of the rule of law and human rights. but we are talking about a friendly country, a country with which we cooperate, a country we love and want to help, which is going to hold very important elections next june and which has great hopes that this political change will really bring about a better country. europe wants to help those people. europe wants to help that country. and it does so today, yes, by condemning a government which is acting in serious violations of human rights, especially by expelling the international commission against impunity, which is the most important un body. and we do so by warning that there will be sanctions for that country if it does not move in the direction of freedom and democracy.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i had the privilege of representing this parliament at the signing of the peace agreements in guatemala and we all want guatemala to make progress in respecting human rights, fundamental freedoms and the fight against impunity. however, i am not convinced that this resolution accurately reflects the real situation in the country. in any case, mr president, i would like to stress one of the aspects of this resolution, namely the need for a real assessment of the impact of your work in the judicial field, in the political, economic and institutional aspects, and above all, mr president, to ask why an institution which from the outset had broad majority support, both inside and outside the country, has been gradually weakened. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the question of the 'blue card'. i'm really amazed. when you talk about human rights in places outside of venezuela you change your criteria. how is it possible that there has been a joint motion for a resolution signed with the epp group, that there have been hyper-important speeches by the epp group here today, and that you say that they are going to abstain or that it is not such a profound solution? i'm frankly surprised at your hypocrisy. so would you be prepared to vote in favour of this joint motion for a resolution?
the answer is 'blue card'. madam miranda, i think that the word 'hypocrisy' is a word that is not compatible with respect and parliamentary courtesy. we're exercising our right to free speech here. and, mrs. miranda, i say to you that by speech, man is superior to the animal, but by silence he surpasses himself. you've missed a very remarkable opportunity to outdo yourself, which is not very difficult. (the speaker refuses to be asked a question under the 'blue card' procedure.)
on behalf of the green group, mr president, we are very concerned about the situation in guatemala: attacks on human rights defenders, indigenous peoples and social organisations are continuing. we also condemn the cancellation of the mandate of the international commission against impunity. that is why we support its director who has been criticized for denouncing cases of corruption of the president's brother and the president's son and the european embassies, especially the swedish embassy. and how to admit the reconciliation act, which would mean getting the worst human rights violators in the civil war out of jail? it's like a call to violence and war. or the ngo bill proposal, which only seeks to restrict their freedom of expression and assembly. guatemala is a militarized country where the rule of law is disappearing day by day. and our concern is also for human rights defenders: for our dear lolita, for the defenders who are in prison, so that they can return to their country in peace. she and all the defenders must be protected, because unfortunately what the guatemalan government wants is to continue preserving the privileges of a few rich families who believe they own the country.
on behalf of the ppe group mr. president, there is a law of the politician in the election campaign that says: don't let the truth spoil a good debate. the truth is...
on behalf of the ppe group mr. president, i was saying that there is a law of the politician in the election campaign that says: don't let the truth spoil a good debate. there's a law of the populist politician on the campaign trail that says, "don't let the truth spoil a good show". my group in this parliament, the people's group, condemns fascism, francoism, nazism and communism without reservation. i would like to ask you to be absolutely clear about the position of our group. antonio tajani is a democrat, he was until yesterday, he is today and he will be tomorrow. we all know him. the majority of us here have voted for it and we have all had it as our chairman, attending our debates and directing our deliberations. and antonio tajani shares, as he has said publicly, with my parliamentary group, the condemnation of fascism, the condemnation of francoism, the condemnation of nazism and the condemnation of communism. mr lamberts, i listened to you and i didn't get nervous. and i heard you last monday objecting to us debating political prisoners in venezuela and then defending the rights of fish in fish farms, and i did so with the same respect that i heard you this morning. that said, mr president, we can all make a mistake in the media and we can all be misrepresented in what we say in the media. antonio tajani has given explanations about the circumstances under which these words were spoken which he does not defend, so my parliamentary group understands - and i say this - that we have no right to bring the electoral campaign to this house... (the president withdraws the speaker's speech).
mr. president, i demand respect and silence, please. president tajani's words are, of course, contrary to the article... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, this week the european parliament has welcomed many young people who are fighting against climate change. welcome to this fight which tomorrow will also be in our streets, saying loud and clear: fight against climate change throughout europe. i join this fight for clean air, for a clean earth. i join this fight for a country that can divide with total environmental protection. i would also like to bring up a very important problem in my own country, galicia: the problem of fires, fires which also affect the air, and the problem of eucalyptus. the eucalyptus grows, the government encourages its planting, and forestry plans are created that go against the environment. we shall be discussing this tomorrow in santiago de compostela and we shall also be discussing this next week at a conference on water which we shall be organising in the european parliament.
mr president, the student strike is a protest against the european union's failure to meet the challenge of climate change. his message is clear. we must assume that we are facing a climate emergency and that drastic reductions in greenhouse gas emissions are needed. with our vote we want to show our support for the youth who are mobilizing in defence of the existence of a dignified future and also to denounce the hypocrisy and inaction of the european union in the face of the challenge of climate change. we need courageous governments and institutions to put an end to policies which are destructive of the environment and of social rights. we can't go on like this. we need to accelerate the energy transition and the change of economic and social systems, because our lives and our planet are worth more than their benefits and nothing can justify stealing our future.
mr president, since the protests began in nicaragua, there have been more than 76 deaths, 800 injured and hundreds of arrests. we condemn the violence against the popular movements and call for an independent investigation to hold those responsible accountable in court for serious human rights violations. we support a dialogue that includes all voices and allows a negotiated solution to this conflict, a solution that involves the release of all political prisoners, the disarmament of paramilitary gangs and the guarantee of the most basic social and political freedoms, such as the right to demonstrate, assemble, protest, participate and access to information. as nicaraguan history has shown us, the exercise of protest must serve to advance the political and social transformations of the country. the future of nicaragua must be decided by nicaraguans with full autonomy and freedom, free from violence and repression and ensuring the return of all exiles.
mr president, in my country fish is more than a foodstuff, it is a national symbol. so i am very concerned about this issue because one of the fundamental problems is that europe has to decide between which fishing models it wants, whether it is sustainable fishing or intensive or extensive aquaculture. i am in favour of extensive aquaculture because facilities in intensive aquaculture often do not meet the conditions to have healthy fish. for productivity, intensive aquaculture models are encouraged that use antibiotics and stress hormones in fish. fish are killed quickly for profit, and the profit is often concentrated in a few hands, unlike extensive aquaculture, commissioner, which is shellfish harvesting or small-scale aquaculture, which is also very labour intensive. between the two models, i also believe that the commission should, in future european funds, in the future european maritime fisheries fund, fight for the animal welfare of fish, but also protect another model of extensive aquaculture alternative to this stressful model, to this model that uses antibiotics, to this model that does this type of slaughter of fish and that raises questions like these.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, with the vote on this report we have concluded the work of an entire legislature; a work to try to establish what is the fault for which we lose billions and billions and billions for tax evasion and avoidance. the european union, ladies and gentlemen, is known throughout europe for imposing austerity on public accounts, cutting social rights, and all this with the mantra that there is no money, that we have to tighten our belts. in the meantime, the public sees how the same european union, which has its capital in luxembourg, has facilitated tax evasion by the big fortunes and multinationals and has issued nothing but statements when it comes to prosecuting them. for every new piece of legislation, there is a hole through which money continues to escape in astronomical amounts. this report shows how switzerland is failing to meet international standards of transparency. how long will we have to wait until the union imposes trade sanctions on switzerland and actually forces it to cooperate, like the rest of the tax havens? how long will we have to wait before the european commission designates member countries such as luxembourg or malta as tax havens? how long will we have to wait before what we decide in this house are not recommendations but enforcement measures against tax evasion and avoidance? until we take decisive action against the sacrosanct freedom of capital movement, everything will be paper.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank the co-rapporteurs for the work they have done, who, after listening to commissioners - such as commissioner moskovitz, the responsible commissioner who is with us today - and to ministers, businessmen and experts, have formulated a series of recommendations at national, european and international level to combat tax fraud, to combat and simplify corporate taxation, to combat money laundering and to strengthen two areas which are particularly timely at this moment and which have not been the subject of action by other committees before. i am referring to digital taxation and also to fraud in the value added tax. i would like to stress one point, mr president, and that is that cooperation between the member states in this area has been surprisingly ineffective. the text says that this cooperation has been deficient, dysfunctional and slow. i think we have to take this matter seriously: the figures are astronomical and, as the commissioner has said, we have to fight decisively from the point of view of cooperation between the commission and the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think parliament has done a good job in this area. mr moscovici has done the same. i think there is a huge social alarm throughout the european union about tax evasion and also about what is happening internally in the european union itself. there are two things i think we have to report. firstly, i believe that cooperation between states is not enough. i sincerely believe that we must prevent states from doing each other fiscal harm. there are states which are taking advantage of the tax advantages they give to companies, to the detriment of other countries, in a completely shameful way. this has got to stop. i think that a single integrated market does not allow this. and secondly, as has been said, the rule of unanimity. unanimity is a veto right for countries which do not want to put a stop to this situation. we must put an end to this by means of the 'passage clauses', but these also require an agreement from the council itself. that is why we must work even on the reform of the treaties.
mr president, it is clear that the report contains many of the measures to combat tax fraud and tax evasion which we have worked on in this parliament. i think it was a legislature where progress was made. we now need the council to unblock many of the things we have asked it to do and, in particular, the establishment of a common corporate tax base, which would be the cornerstone of really moving towards fiscal justice in the european union. i have to say that the report tomorrow will also mention some very important issues, such as the abolition of the golden visas; it will also point out and denounce the very negative trend of constantly lowering the nominal rates of corporation tax in many countries. some people seem to be unaware of the effects of this majority trend in europe. mr pablo casado wants to propose that the nominal rate of corporation tax in spain be lowered below 20%. this is something which goes totally against the majority tendency in this house, and i am glad of it. i therefore hope that this report will be adopted by a large majority tomorrow.
mr president, we in the greens/efa group are fully committed to tax justice and the fight against tax evasion and avoidance, and thus we see the tax3 report as a basically good report. but despite parliament’s commitment, the reality is that still a lot has to be done to achieve fair and transparent tax systems across the eu. this flawed reality means, for instance, member states facilitating aggressive tax planning or schemes that straightaway make them tax havens on a race to the bottom when it comes to corporate tax rates that undermine revenues and damage the public interest, or the lack of political will amongst too many member states to deliver on key tax legislation, such as the common consolidated tax base, the taxation of digital services or public country-by-country reporting. we need results in this very important matter. we need to avoid the unanimity rule in the council and move towards qualified majority, finally engaging this parliament not as an opinion give, but as a co—legislator.
mr president, commissioner jourová, slovakia and malta are two member states of the european union, and their citizens are represented in this european parliament and deserve our full respect. but not a single member state can escape the focus and priority which this european parliament has given to the rule of law and the fight against corruption, which means guaranteeing pluralism of information and judicial independence in the investigation of crimes. there have been two murders of journalists, which highlights the need for slovakia and malta to do their duty to fully clarify, with the collaboration of europol, these murders. ensuring the safety of journalists and fighting corruption also means ending the golden visa schemes that allow illicit investments, money laundering from illicit businesses, as well as the need to ensure transparency and the safety of whistleblowers who report serious crimes that may take place and need to be judicially cleared. it is therefore essential - and we have told the prime ministers in their appearances in this parliament - that malta and slovakia clarify these murders as soon as possible.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, everything happens early in the morning is a saying to underline that haste is always bad advice. and that is exactly the meaning of the agreement reached by the committee on transport to put an end, without haste but without pause, to these seasonal changes in time. we have not been in a hurry, because we have agreed to give the union's member states two more years to decide whether they want to opt for summertime or wintertime in an orderly and transparent manner; we have not been in a hurry, because we have devised mechanisms for coordination and evaluation to ensure that the decisions taken do not create new and dangerous distortions in the internal market and its basic services. without pause, because many of us agree that the biannual changes must end. there is a lot of evidence that these changes may be harming the health of europeans, particularly the young and the old, more than we thought. and it is also clear that they do not contribute to energy saving in the terms that motivated their implementation. it is therefore a good idea to set up an evaluation committee between the member states and the community authorities to analyse, from april next year, the time proposals of each member state and to identify, prevent and help to avoid possible problems. once this stage of prior evaluation has been completed, the seasonal changes in timetable will end in an orderly manner in 2021. the agreement also provides for thorough evaluations to verify that what we have decided does not actually create more problems than it was intended to solve. following this roadmap, we must show the 4 600 000 citizens who took part in this public consultation that the european institutions are listening, that they are close, that they are serious and rigorous about citizens' concerns and that they are trying to play their part: to be informed, to moderate between opposing positions and to decide, trying to establish balanced positions in a transparent way. if this approach builds trust and closeness, the time spent in putting an end to the time changes in an orderly way will be worthwhile.
mr. president, the time change has consequences on people's daily lives. it has economic, energy, security, conciliation implications, which will affect the quality of life of citizens. therefore, it cannot be taken lightly. the commission proposal lacks a comprehensive assessment - as has already been said - of both directive 2000/84/ec and the proposal. we cannot make hasty decisions, decisions which may end up creating barriers and time limits where they do not exist. and before we go any further with this debate, with a debate like this, it is necessary - and it is imperative - to analyse in depth the implications of this decision.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, decarbonising our energy system is an absolute priority, and with this legislation we are taking a step in the right direction. i am glad that thanks to the green group this agreement is helping to support renewable energy, demand management and energy cooperatives and that we have put an end date on coal subsidies. it's time for a just transition beyond dirty energy, and for no one to have to choose between the end of the world or the end of the month. but we must do much more if we are to comply with the paris agreement, starting, commissioner, by not authorising subsidies for new polluting plants in poland and greece. that is why i urge the european commission to double its level of climate ambition. the green group will be watching very closely. we owe this to the youth for the climate who every week leave their classes to give us a master lesson.
madam president, with the debate on electricity market regulation we have completed the legislation on the clean energy package. i, mr commissioner, would like to congratulate you on the work you have done in the commission, but i also want to acknowledge today that this parliament has lived up to the demands and lived up to the challenge we have ahead of us, which is to make energy legislation in line with the paris agreements and with the great challenge facing humanity, which is the fight against climate change; with greater penetration of renewables; with greater energy efficiency; with a more active role for consumers; with a role also - which we must not forget - in combating energy poverty. in short, the european union is the great global player with sound legislation that meets the challenge of our time. we can therefore, as europeans, be proud of the work we have done and, at the same time, claim that more needs to be done, because the challenge is enormous.
in writing. in the united states, dieselgate scammers have returned millions of vehicles and collected damages. in europe, the origin of the fraud, the brands involved have not withdrawn a single car or paid a single euro, thanks to the protective shield of the institutions. it was shameful to see how, in the face of judicial decisions banning the circulation of diesel, the transport commissioner, spurred on by the sector, came to their aid and criticized these failures, or how the commerce commissioner simply sent a letter to the sector. in payment for this excessive protection, manufacturers set up factories in china or india, and recent statements by managers warn of thousands of layoffs because of the electric car. fortunately, the electrification of transport is unstoppable. unfortunately for the european sector, virtually all electric cars sold in the world are manufactured outside the eu. if the efforts and resources devoted to cheating and polluting had been focused on technologies of the future, european manufacturers would not have had their cheese stolen. meanwhile, millions of vehicles that emit up to 12 times more ghg than their labels indicate will be on the road for years or decades without authorities who are supposed to protect our health and the environment doing anything.
madam president, shame is what many citizens feel after six weeks of political trial against the former members of the government of catalonia, the president of the parliament carme forcadell and the civic leaders jordi sánchez and jordi cuixart. it is shameful to see these 12 people - nine of them after 400 to 525 days in prison - sitting in the dock for having organized or supported a referendum, a democratic exercise and for having carried out the people's mandate. it is shameful to see how the accusations the prosecutor's office, the state's lawyers, but also that of a neo-francoist party try, without arguments, without evidence, with exaggerated or false stories, to prove that what happened in catalonia between september and october 2017 was not a huge exercise of democratic dignity but a violent rebellion. this judgment is just another instrument in the service of state nationalism, which with the indifference of official europe has decided that preserving what they understand by national unity is well worth a few steps back in fundamental rights and freedoms.
madam president, the famous article 13 is about the responsibility of platforms in the event of copyright infringement. no more, no less, your honours. there are many copyright infringements on the internet caused by the freedom that allows any user to freely upload anything they want to digital platforms, including content that is protected by copyright, that is, that is owned by someone. one thing we must be clear about is that copyright is a property right like any other property right, material or not. and they exist so that artists can live off their work, so it's our duty to protect it, and i defend it unequivocally. instead of holding each individual user accountable for the content they post, the platform will be held accountable, because after all, the platform is the one who profits from this content through advertising revenue or the analysis of behavioral data. it is therefore the platform that must buy the license or ensure that no one uploads content without the consent of the owner. i consider the result of the trilogue agreement reached by the rapporteur, mr voss, to be very positive. it responds satisfactorily to the objective of correcting the imbalances caused by the emergence of new agents in the digital environment. and i think he deserves our full support.
madam president, no one is trying to end freedom on the internet. but the internet cannot be lawless territory. there will be no content to exploit if there is no creation and there will be no creation if there is no fair remuneration. this directive seeks to correct these imbalances in order to give more power to creators, to rebalance the value chain, and i do not understand how, from the so-called left, some on the left defend the exploitation of creators and do not defend the redistribution of the wealth of the large platforms. i don't understand that. nobody is restricting freedom of speech. no monitoring obligation is imposed. it doesn't put links or memes at risk. this directive is up to date with the 21st century and reinforces one thing in any case: freedom of expression, freedom of creation and fair remuneration for work done. (the speaker agrees to answer two questions put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the answer is 'blue card'. it is about rebalancing the value chain. it's about the big platforms contributing with a fair remuneration to the creators. it's about paying for the value of creation and not about exploiting. that is why i repeat that i do not understand certain voices on the left in favour of the profits of a few to the detriment of the creation and the work of a number of creators of our europe, of our country.
the answer is 'blue card'. no, i don't think that's what it is.
madam president, i believe that a balanced text has been agreed which meets the interests of all parties. however, it has been a great disappointment to the world of sport that no specific mention has been made of the rights of organisers of sporting events, as was the amendment to the original article 12a, which was approved by almost four hundred votes in favour in the plenary last september. despite requesting a recital to be included in relation to the premier league/murphy judgment, which stated that member states could protect sporting events and that the commission undertook to analyse protection regimes in order to harmonise them, the commission has opted to make only a general statement. i think it is just as important to recognize the rights of creators as those of organizers of sporting events over their own events. however, i shall of course vote in favour of this text, because i think it is absolutely essential to preserve the rights of creators in europe.
madam president, after almost three years of work, the reasonable thing is to reach a conclusion that is proportionate, fair and balanced. but what would not be excusable is that this european parliament did not do its job of protecting fundamental rights. freedom of expression is certainly not, but it is also - in parity with freedom of expression - freedom of artistic and literary creation, as well as scientific and technical creation. it is in the spanish constitution and it is in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. and parliament must also protect the most vulnerable. and certainly, the most vulnerable in the value chain are the creators and artists, unprotected by the giants of the web, who violate our fundamental rights, who attack our privacy, who traffic in our data, who evade paying their taxes and who fund and organize massive troll campaigns that try to threaten and extort this european parliament and its individual parliamentarians to make a decision. the good news is that, after this directive, the internet will still exist and freedom of expression will also exist, but the subject, the creator, the artist, the most vulnerable in the value chain, will be more protected.
madam president, as we are nearing the end of this debate, i have to say that it is a very controversial debate and not because there are differences of opinion, which is a good thing and in all debates there are usually differences of opinion. it's funny, we're facing a necessary regulation of a market - the digital market - and yet there's a great passion and a great controversy. i am shocked, because there is a distortion in the digital single market today, and the purpose of this regulation is to regulate copyright. i think that a great balance has been struck; so why are we opposed to regulation? regulation is not the same as prohibition. it is simply a matter of setting rules so that everyone, whether in the digital market or in the commercial or financial market, knows what the rules of the game are. that's all it is. let us therefore vote in favour of this directive by a majority.
member of the commission. – mr president, tomorrow’s vote is another milestone in the post-2020 negotiations of the shared management of eu funds, as the regulation on the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund sets up the main investment tools in research and innovation, climate change, connectivity and social infrastructure. on behalf of the european commission, i would like to commend the rapporteur mr cozzolino, as well as the other members of the european parliament in the committee on regional development (regi), and in the other committees, for the efficiency and the quality of the work done in such a short time. we can only regret that the may elections are already so close, that despite this great effort, the timing of the first reading will not permit trilogues to start during the term of this parliament. when looking into the regi report, the commission recognises and welcomes the effort to root the policy deeper in the territorial reality of every region and to ensure that no region is left behind. however, as much as we share the objectives, we do not always agree on the best tools to achieve them. allow me to raise two issues which are ‘thematic concentration’ and the ‘scope of support’. concentration of resources on a limited number of priorities — thematic concentration, if you like — is a key principle that spurs efficiency of investment, avoiding funds from being distributed too thinly. this is why the ambitious levels of thematic concentration should be maintained. cohesion policy should steer investments towards our common objectives of a smarter and greener europe. concentration requirements at national level does not mean more centralisation. on the contrary, it allowed for greater flexibility in setting up regional concentration thresholds, as richer regions could compensate for poorer ones. member states where relations between national, regional and local partners are based on trust and open dialogue could easily achieve that. in terms of objectives, the commission has proposed a clear vision by defining broad policy objectives of a smarter, greener, a better connected and more social europe. specific objectives — second level objectives, if you like — are not intended to describe an exhaustive menu of eligible actions, but rather to indicate their purpose. this was a further step from an action-based to a result-oriented approach. unfortunately, we did not manage to get a mutual understanding on this issue. redefining the content of specific objectives, as proposed by the parliament, notably in relation to broadband, urban mobility, tourism, natural resources and sports, would have significant policy implications. it would dilute thematic concentration and encourage sectoral project-based investments rather than an integrated approach, based on territorial strategies. the commission has proposed to exclude from funding a few areas which were evaluated as having low impact and eu added-value, for example investment in landfills, or could have a long-term lock-in effect, preventing the achievement of agreed eu or international goals, for example investment in fossil fuels. we are afraid that parliament’s amendments could result in inefficiencies of investments. finally, the commission would like to stress that provisions related to the implementation of the stability and growth pact should not be introduced through sectoral legislation. the commission has proposed that the common provisions regulation should continue to regulate the link with economic governance, through the principle of macro-economic conditionality. i look forward to a fruitful debate and thank you.
on behalf of the ppe group the position of this house on the erdf and also on the cohesion fund will be voted on tomorrow at first reading. i believe that, thanks to the work of the past few months, this parliament has succeeded in enriching and improving the commission's initial proposal. we want the erdf and the cohesion fund to be able to finance aid for natural disasters such as earthquakes, fires or floods, because european solidarity must be there when a catastrophe occurs and it must not be late or without resources. we have succeeded in reflecting the demands of our peripheral and outermost regions. we have been able to introduce the problem of depopulation, which is so crucial for the future of countries like spain. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. we have managed to make the fight against depopulation a very present reality by working together, and regional funds could be used to revitalise our towns, especially in terms of social innovation and the green economy. moving from the winter we are in to a demographic spring involves activating the pooling of resources. we must therefore ensure that those who wish to build their vital project in the countryside can do so. the priorities are clear: investment facilitation, digital empowerment, improvement of public services and maternity support. i am fully convinced that if we are committed to rural europe today, we will have much to celebrate tomorrow and we can do so from the pride of having consolidated a welfare system based on freedom, opportunities and equality for all families, regardless of where they live.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. mr president, a year and a half ago we adopted a report in this parliament, which i had the honour of authoring, on how cohesion policy can combat the demographic and depopulation challenges that we need in europe at the moment. today, with the adoption of this regulation on the erdf, we are making it a reality that these instruments can help to combat depopulation. the work that has been incorporated through amendments is reflected in article 8, which states that at least 5% of the erdf has to be allocated to these areas with demographic disadvantages. article 10 also incorporates the possibility of specific funds in the association agreements to combat the demographic challenge we have at the moment in europe. it is essential for our rural environment that european policy and cohesion policy be a fundamental element in giving hope to all the people who are dying today. we therefore welcome a new regulation which is sensitive to the demographic challenges in europe.
mr president, the european regional development fund is a very important instrument - as has already been said - for promoting cohesion in the european regions. i want to focus on a problem that affects many of these regions, and especially my own, galicia. i am referring specifically to demographic decline and the ageing of the population. the galician government is taking measures for example, in the areas of birth promotion, reconciliation, day-care centres and is now preparing a law to boost population growth. but i am convinced that the union and the member states must do more. demographic decline should be a relevant criterion for the allocation of funds. recently, with my colleague ramón luis valcárcel, i tabled several amendments to this regulation, the result of which is a specific article, 10a, on areas with demographic challenges, which pays greater attention to provinces and municipalities suffering from depopulation. it is envisaged that these territories will be subject to specific plans to make them more attractive to the population, for example by increasing investment. and i also welcome the fact that the association agreement between the member state and the european commission should include a fund to deal with the demographic challenge for these territories.
mr president, if there is a fundamental value in the european union, it is the value of solidarity, the value of social justice. that is why europe cannot afford to take a step back in the policies that give substance to the necessary convergence between its regions. i welcome the improvements made to this proposal by the european parliament, particularly with regard to demography. it is urgent to devote efforts and resources to combating depopulation, ageing which undermines the economic vitality and sustainability of the continent, the survival of our social model and the social and territorial cohesion of the european union itself. proposals like these give meaning and substance to the social and cohesive europe that many of us are advocating. defending equality and territorial and social cohesion has always been a flag. and it is very important for regions like mine, for galicia. that's why this deal is important.
mr president, commissioner jourová, this parliament is doing its job by showing its weight and muscle by legislating, by the ordinary legislative procedure, nothing less than the regulation on the erdf and the cohesion fund, which amount to eur 272 billion and eur 46 billion respectively - a quarter of the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework. it is particularly important for the less favoured regions. it is vital for the outermost regions: in connectivity, in employment, in transport, in integration into the transeuropean networks. it is a guarantee of meeting the objectives of combating climate change, complying with environmental legislation and the circular economy, including waste management. and so i would point out that there should be no exception to the commitment that no waste incineration plant will be financed from these funds unless it is strictly subject to the environmental and circular economy legislation of the european union.
mr president, today we voted on the reform of the internal electricity market and today we finally recognise energy communities and cooperatives as key players in the ecological transition. the transition will not be successful without the active participation of citizens and, above all, without a democratization and decentralisation of the energy system. we cannot leave the energy transition in the hands of big business, but we must put citizens at the centre. today we are also setting limits on capacity mechanisms by setting 2025 as the deadline for the most polluting thermal power plants. these complex mechanisms are, after all, covert subsidies to fossil fuels, such as coal, or to nuclear energy. however, the climate emergency requires going much faster than the electricity market reform envisages; the social emergency also implies leaving no one behind, putting alternatives to the workers affected by the changes in the production model.
mr. president, tax evasion and avoidance is an issue that undermines our economies, detracts resources that could be devoted to the welfare of the majority and erodes public trust in institutions. the view that tax obligations are not equal for all has contributed to increasing exasperation and outrage in our societies. it cannot be hidden that the tax pressure and the demands are always for the popular sectors and the middle classes. the tax exemption of income has also meant a visible deterioration of public services for the majority of people in our countries. under the false pretext that lower taxes would encourage investment and employment, tax avoidance mechanisms have been encouraged, impoverishing the states and making social policies more difficult. i voted in favour of this report because the tax3 committee has done a good job and has revealed the extent to which large companies are using increasingly aggressive tax engineering mechanisms to avoid their responsibilities. at this point, the existence of tax havens is the big hole that allows tax evasion and the avoidance of the obligations of the richest and the big companies. we have also seen that the diversity of tax models in europe creates competition between countries, which is exploited by large companies for the sole purpose of contributing less and less. in this competitive logic, nothing is gained and we all lose. sooner or later someone may lower rates and offer better tax advantages. competition for fewer rights is to the detriment of the vast majority. it is therefore necessary to know how committed the countries are to implementing the proposals in this report. if we really want to regain the trust of societies and reduce social unrest and anger, we must guarantee the minimum standards that make our societies trust their institutions. and the tax issue is especially sensitive and important in this matter.
the rapporteur. i would like to thank the president of the court of auditors, mr lehne, and the representative of the council presidency for being here, and i would also like to welcome mr oettinger. firstly, we are faced with the last discharge procedure of this parliamentary term, for the financial year 2017, which is an important year for the budget of the european union. but this moment, 2019, is also important because we are facing a balance sheet where precisely the new elections on 26 may - the week of the end of may - will be key for the future of the european union. it is therefore essential to take a brief look at all these years - 15 in my case, since there have been three legislatures - in which we have learned together from all the institutions. this european parliament has worked hard, but at the same time it has been open to all the other institutions to learn together and to find the best systems, ways and possibilities to ensure that the union's budget is implemented where it has been decided in terms of values, priorities and with all the guarantees of regularity and legality. i think that in that sense, mr lehne, i have to thank you - because you represent here at the court of auditors - for the invaluable help and the joint progress of both, which has been of enormous importance. i believe that the fact that we are now in the second year in which the declaration of reliability is not negative opens up the possibility of a process in which it will be clearly stated to the european citizens that all this work has been worthwhile, since in all this time the error rates have been greatly reduced. but it is true, and the court of auditors has also pointed this out, and we have spoken to the commission in depth about it, that there are new challenges arising. for example, the question of financial instruments, which are now very diverse; the new trust funds, which are also on the horizon as a possibility; or even the problems of public tenders or the various problems of the future, of new challenges such as defence, climate change or other fundamental aspects for the european union, which of course require all our wisdom and our firmness for the future. i have to say that we have tried to make this 2017 report as readable as possible so that both those who are running for office and, above all, the citizens, can read what progress has been made and where the challenges and fundamental problems are. we have worked on direct management, which raises some questions which the commission will have to deal with. we have spoken and worked on shared management, where much has been improved - we must tell the council that it has been able to overcome some of the major problems little by little - and also on indirect management, where, through these funds, these agencies and these new formulas, we need to go further in terms of inventing ourselves and in terms of controlling the budget of the european union. i would like to say that since the vote in committee - and i am very grateful to all my colleagues, to the secretariat and to the secretariats of the groups, who have been very helpful - two new things have happened. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. i will answer them at the end of this debate.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this. mr president, the european fisheries control agency has been executing its budget in an exemplary manner. the agency is essential to achieve sustainable fisheries management, to cover ever more fisheries and to achieve the objectives of the common fisheries policy. the fishing industry has traditionally been complex, and it is more so now. the uncertainty generated by the uk's withdrawal, the implementation of the common fisheries policy, the landing obligation, the regulation on technical measures or the impacts of climate change require europe to make this policy a priority. there are many areas like my own - galicia, the european union's leading fishing region - for which a strong fisheries policy with sufficient resources is vital, and which is not a bargaining chip. that is what i have been doing during my time in the european parliament, because it is necessary and because it is just.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, mr president of the court of auditors, ladies and gentlemen, i have worked on this discharge procedure in the context of the other institutions and i would like to thank mr kohn for his cooperation. i believe that the amendments which we have tabled in committee and the few which are coming to the house in this area will help to improve the situation of the other institutions and bodies and of the european union external action service. i believe, mr president, that the debate on the discharge does not have to become a battleground where political attacks and questions have to be settled, particularly on the eve of elections. i believe that the implementation of the discharge must be linked to a regular and legal verification of the implementation of the budget, and that this budget and this implementation should be based on principles of sound budgetary management. and that applies, mr president, to the appointment of the secretary-general of the commission. i would like to remind you that the secretary general of the commission was appointed in february 2018, that parliament adopted a resolution in april, and that we are now discussing the approval of the management for the year 2017. obviously, it doesn't. i would like to say, mr president - and i agree with what some of my colleagues have said here - that it is indeed parliament's job to give legal approval to the accounts, but i think parliament would have greater moral credibility and greater legitimacy if it actually preached, in our appointment policy, by example, by our own example, in our own house.
the rapporteur. mr president, i am very grateful to you for this enriching debate and i would just like to speak, as i said at the beginning, about two new points after the vote. i think i misunderstood the chairman of the committee on budgetary control, who i think was questioning the soundness of the img judgment. you know very well, mrs gräßle, that img was founded only by ambassadors in geneva, at a time when the war in the balkans required experts to be able to enter after the bombings to set up bridges, electrical lines, and so on. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. however, i wonder if the fact that img's problems started in 2012 is not also linked to the fact that mrs tanja gönner, whom you know very well, has now become the head of giz and a direct beneficiary of what happened to img, that is to say, of the contracts that were refused to img. the truth is that your articles in der spiegel, mrs gräßle, and the amendments you agreed to in the discharge procedure say very little about our ability to help citizens in the european union. and as for the conflict of interests, mr oettinger, i am very sorry; you know that i greatly appreciate you and consider you a good professional, but our staff regulations, which are regulations adopted in codecision, clearly state in article 11a: 'an official shall not, in the performance of his duties and save as hereinafter provided, deal with a matter in which, directly or indirectly, he has any personal interest such as to impair his independence, and in particular family and financial interests'.
mr president, commissioner, this regulation provides us with a legal framework for all member states to meet the objectives of the paris agreement in the coming years. the european union will set these objectives and give the sector clear guidelines for future investment and technology development. the passenger car and van sector is of great importance in many countries of the european union, particularly in my own country, and the member states are going to have to undergo a profound transformation. and having this legal framework for a sustainable transition is important. but this transition must ensure that environmental objectives are met while maintaining or increasing the level of economic activity and employment. we must therefore be particularly vigilant with regard to the most vulnerable groups and regions, and we must also bear in mind that the transition affects not only the car industry but also the whole of the component manufacturing industry. the european commission must therefore have a real industrial policy, involving several directorates-general and with specific analyses and measures for the most important industrial sectors in the european union. this is a very important question for the coming years. and i want to end, commissioner, by congratulating you on all the work of this legislature, not only on what you have done in this sector, but also because the european union's road map is already completed before the european elections. we have even already put on the table the strategy for reducing emissions by 2050. thank you very much and congratulations.
mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs dalli, and our alternative rapporteur, mr gieseke, on the enormous work they have done in the negotiations on this report. the agreement reached with the council is a major step forward in achieving the decarbonisation objectives we have set ourselves, with guarantees to ensure a fair transition, while also guaranteeing the technological neutrality that the legislator must always maintain. the agreement we are voting on tomorrow is just one more measure added to the dozens we have negotiated during this mandate on the fight against climate change, in which we have made great progress during these years of the juncker commission, also promoted by commissioner arias cañete; a fight that the european union is leading around the world and that the european citizens demand of us and remind us every friday that we cannot postpone; a fight that, moreover, we cannot lose.
mr president, every new report we hear brings before our eyes the reality of the need to tackle with determination the greatest challenge facing humanity, which is the fight against climate change. the transport sector accounts for a quarter of the european union's emissions. the decarbonisation of the transport sector is therefore an obligation, not an option. the regulation we are about to adopt puts us precisely on the path to achieving these objectives of decarbonisation, which are irrevocable. and, in turn, it puts us in front of the european challenge of taking steps to enable our industry to make the great technological leap to maintain leadership, to maintain employment, but to maintain it in a clean transport, in a transport that is compatible with this challenge we have to face, which is the total decarbonisation of our productive sectors, of our economy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, our contributions from the committee on budgets have been, firstly, to align the proposal with the position this parliament voted on for the financial framework 2021-2027. and in this sense we have increased to 35% the contribution that this new fund, this instrument, has to make to the fight against climate change; we have also increased the allocation by almost 4 000 million euros in investments intended exclusively for africa. we have also limited the maximum amount of the guarantee to eur 10 billion to avoid any possible imbalance between grants and financial instruments and we have established a mechanism whereby the european parliament must approve the use of the reserve provided for in this fund. we have also guaranteed the european investment bank a minimum volume of operations for sovereign investments in the public sector so that these are not interrupted by the changeover to the new instrument. finally, following on from the work we had already done in the sustainable development fund, we have also clarified the definition of additionality, established stricter criteria in the fight against fraud, tax evasion and money laundering and, in addition, improved the complaint mechanisms.
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all, let me thank the rapporteurs and all of you for the efficient joint work undertaken in the committee on foreign affairs (afet), committee on development (deve) and committee on budgets (budg), leading to the timely finalisation of the report on the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instruct (ndici) proposal. i am pleased that the report gives overall support to the politically and financially ambitious proposal of the commission. i especially welcome parliament’s support for a more coherent and responsive instrument. europe’s voice in the world will be louder and its priorities better served through this instrument – priorities such as the neighbourhood, sub-saharan africa, eradication of poverty, sustainable development, migration, promoting human rights and democracy, fighting climate change and preserving peace. i am also glad to see parliament retained investment as one of the modalities that should be mobilised to pursue these objectives. i am personally convinced that the budgetisation of the european development fund (edf) will considerably enhance the european parliament’s legislative, budgetary and scrutiny roles. overall, i think all these elements will contribute to ensuring that the new instrument meets our objectives and commitments made in the context of the european union’s global strategy, the new european consensus on development and the global 2030 agenda. in the context of the inclusion of neighbourhood policy financing in the ndici instrument that the commission unanimously proposed and maintained, let me underline this point again: a streamlined, more efficient architecture of our external spending does not call into question the political importance of any single geographical or thematic policy. on the contrary, we want to maximise the impact of each policy while improving our ability to mobilise additional resources where they are needed the most. this is particularly important in response to unforeseen developments, for instance in our neighbourhood. in our vision, programming is the process that will ensure the link between the implementation of the sustainable development goals (sdgs), the european union’s interests, external action interests and the interest of our partners. this process can only translate into the intended results if it is kept flexible. i also welcome the political ambition of the report to focus on major priorities like human development and the fight against climate change. i believe, however, that such targets should be aspirational and not legally binding obligations. otherwise, they risk constraining our external activities in a complex and ever-changing context. i reiterate my conviction that the european union’s ambitions as the leading international development actor are fully reflected in this proposal, and i welcome your support. however, in the context of the 2030 agenda, a 95% dac-ability target may not be realistic. indeed, it is important to keep a sufficient degree of flexibility to fulfil the european union’s ambitions in the area of conflict prevention and peace, or in our cooperation with industrialised countries. i believe that by making a legal commitment to achieve a 92% dac-ability, the commission is already proposing an ambitious target. the commission is ready to engage with parliament in order to explore how best to enhance its role of steering and oversight. a frank and substantive dialogue both at political and technical level with parliament is indeed our objective in full respect of the interinstitutional balance. however, i think that creating additional layers of institutional control and making excessive use of delegated acts will not achieve that objective. instead, it will make the functioning of the instrument too complex. keeping sufficient flexibility is key. in this regard, the foreign policy needs and priorities component for rapid response actions should be maintained in the non-programmable pillar. as is the case for the reserve in the current edf, the cushion would give us the necessary capacity to respond timely and efficiently to the type of unexpected needs that are so common in external action in the neighbourhood and beyond. i do not believe, therefore, that unallocated funds for the cushion for emerging challenges and priorities should be reduced, nor should their mobilisation become more complex. i look forward to the debate and to tomorrow’s vote, and i thank you so much.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the past few decades have shown how many challenges we share. the new neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument is therefore one of the most important proposals of this legislature. this radical change in the financial instruments for external action will result in greater flexibility and will also serve to strengthen the european union's role on the world stage. the union's contribution to the financing of the european solidarity corps is estimated at eur 500000000000 for the period 2014 to 2020. in this context, as rapporteur for the committee on education and culture, i would like to stress the role of inclusive and quality education as a key element in reducing inequalities and poverty; an essential element in promoting tolerance, building more peaceful societies and addressing the root causes of migration. in conclusion, i would like to stress the need to strengthen the partnership with the countries in the neighbourhood area if we are to face the challenges together. it is therefore essential that this instrument preserves the funding of the european neighbourhood policy.
the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the proposal for a regulation on the financial instruments for external action. the european parliament's resolution of 14 march 2008, in which this house called for specific and separate instruments for development cooperation and humanitarian aid, has been ignored. we therefore reject this legislative proposal in its entirety. because the merger of existing funds does not imply greater respect for the principle of policy coherence for development, which is what should govern our external action, but quite the contrary, since it will use development aid funds in geostrategic and defence interests. the real objective behind this merger is to use the enormous amount of development aid for security, for controlling migration flows, for the externalisation of borders. the european citizen must know that, through this proposal, the european union will no longer be the largest donor of development aid in the world, something of which we could be proud. from now on, that money can be used for weapons, fence, concertina and border patrol. every day this union is becoming less and less representative of the ideals that gave it life, and then we wonder where this social disaffection for institutions like this comes from. finally, proposals like this also take us away from our objectives and our international commitments, such as the agenda 2030, which we are so full of.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i usually start by congratulating the rapporteurs on the work they have done. i cannot do that this time because the two members of my group have not yet reached agreement. but, mr president, i think what is at stake here is a more coherent, more visible and more effective foreign policy. and that is what the substantial amounts provided for in this financial instrument are intended to do. i think we would be in the wrong debate if we had to discuss whether we are dealing with a unitary instrument or a differentiated instrument. i believe that the important thing, mr president, is that the european union should be able to play its part on the international scene in accordance with its economic, commercial, financial and industrial weight; that the european union should have a coherent policy that can adapt to changing challenges and that, as mrs schaake said 'she has left the house', we should be able to preserve and maintain the prerogatives of the european parliament. let's not get the debate wrong. it is not a unitary instrument or a set of separate instruments, but rather an emphasis on external policy and the visibility of the european union's external action.
madam president, if used properly, but only if used properly, this instrument can serve to make the voice of the european union more coherent and audible to the outside and in the outside, and to use that voice for the promotion of democratic values, social sustainability, protection of human rights, cooperation, peace and stability. as the rapporteur on humanitarian aid for this parliament, i have seen over the years how much the nature of humanitarian crises has changed. emergency crises have become long-lasting crises and political solutions - global action - are as important as immediate help to address people's needs. only if the european union uses this instrument to preserve peace or to rebuild it where it is broken will it deserve the support we will give it in the vote tomorrow.
madam president, we should welcome the fact that, through the new neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument (ndici), the many existing financial instruments will be simplified. this, together with a bigger allocation of funds, should help make eu actions abroad more relevant. however, the key question we must address is the following: will this new instrument primarily serve the promotion of the eu’s geopolitical and economic interests, or, on the contrary, will it mainly promote the achievement of the internationally recognised principles of development aid and international cooperation? in other words, will the new ndici be an instrument to, for instance, make development aid conditional upon migration policies or to promote the commercial interests of the eu, or will it rather be an instrument to combat poverty and climate change worldwide and promote human rights and democracy, peace and the prevention of conflicts? we must ensure that the priorities, policies and goals of this new instrument that will be supported in practice are the right ones.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by addressing my remarks to the honourable member, mr fleckenstein, to thank him for his excellent cooperation. i understand that this cooperation can be seen as a model of understanding between the political groups in this parliament. i would also like to extend my thanks to the other alternate rapporteurs. commissioner, before i make a brief introduction to the main points of this report, i would like to share a concern raised by some colleagues, somewhat in the context of the electoral process we are approaching, about the name of this regulation - instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa iii) - and the list of potential beneficiaries. i hope that in the course of the subsequent debates and the negotiations that are to take place these doubts which have been expressed by some colleagues can be cleared up. first of all, i think it is important to stress the importance of the financial allocation for this instrument: some eur 15 billion. it is a very important amount, which is intended to support the political, administrative, economic, legal and institutional reforms that the countries in this area of pre-accession must have. these instruments are also intended, madam president, to support all that concerns structural reforms and public governance, and they are directed at specific areas of action, which are the principles that inspire the action of the european union: respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, the rule of law and the rule of law. finally, the areas of action are the areas of the european union's policies: economic and social development, agricultural policy and rural development, research, development and innovation, development policy in relation to the environment and the fight against climate change, and, in particular, madam president, all that concerns interterritorial and crossborder cooperation. there are three fundamental features of this new financial instrument which distinguish it from the previous ones. firstly, the principle of equitable distribution, direct and indirect management and, above all, the need to deepen the visibility of the european union's financial action. i would also like to stress the support it has given to the prerogatives, as was mentioned in the previous debate in the european parliament. this instrument, like the instrument for neighbourhood policy, development and international cooperation, is intended to strengthen and strengthen the capacity of this parliament, which will fix the annual amounts with the council, in the framework of the multiannual financial perspective. the commission must take account of the positions and resolutions adopted by the european parliament. parliament will be associated with all programming developments and, through delegated acts, will have a more active role in maintaining a genuine strategic dialogue in which parliament, the commission and the council can play their respective roles. there is another element - and i will end with that, madam president. we have found a balanced formula for combining the role of the commission and the external action service in the development of all that concerns this financial instrument and i hope, commissioner, that in the course of the previous developments presented to us by the legislative programme we can continue to work and cooperate to make this instrument a real key element for the pre-accession countries. i would like to conclude, madam president, by thanking mr fleckenstein for his work and hope that in the coming weeks we will be able to continue our cooperation in the institutional triangle in order to try to give a definitive profile to this instrument, which is so necessary and so essential in the framework of the european union's external action.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank not only ms gill, but also some other comments that i would like to refer to. first of all, i would like to thank you for this discussion. my take-away from the discussion is that we have many areas of agreement, and we look forward to continue working constructively. there is broad agreement that key parameters should be preserved of our work with the enlargement countries. the ‘fundamentals first’ approach, linking the rule of law and fundamental rights with the two other crucial areas of the accession process – economic governance and reforms, the strengthening of democratic institutions and public administration reforms – will continue to be at the helm of our cooperation. the focus on regional cooperation promotes cross-border cooperation with member states and between instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) beneficiaries. as we have committed to a european perspective for the western balkans, reaffirmed in the western balkans strategy, this regional focus is ever more relevant. at the same time, we are not leaving turkey behind. our presence remains important to support, as mr fleckenstein said, the democratic process and civil society. this new programming dynamic will help us continue our support to turkey, but allow us to adapt to the evolving situation and reflect developments in our relations with the country. i will come to the comments of ms maletić and the concerns of ms gill. we can combine this, and that’s why i would like to refer to its core update: a more strategic steering towards financial assistance. we set priorities and schemes rather than country envelopes, allowing us to reward performance and progress towards key priorities and to increase flexibility to respond to the evolving needs of the partners in the path towards accession. this means, indeed, if there are absorption problems in the future, we can avoid this by focusing on thematic priorities. somebody said there might be problems for one country or another in preparing mature projects. in our experience, they are always able to prepare projects but sometimes in this thematic area and sometimes in another one. of course, we always have to help them to really prepare projects in a way that we can ultimately support financially and assist them to implement them. the idea of thematic priorities is to have a kind of competition, a kind of regatta, amongst the candidate countries and to have the necessary flexibility. so if one country is more focused on rule of law issues, they should have the opportunity to invest more. others might be more focused on transport, but at the end of the day – which means the accession day – they have to align with all the different elements in order to get quasi—approval from us, the member states, to accept a new member state. but in order to arrive there, it’s good to have more flexibility. there will be, ms maletić, an indicative country-specific envelope, but the baseline is indeed the thematic priorities. we are deeply convinced, and this is also true of a vast majority here in the house, that this helps us to be more effective on the ground, to have more flexibility, and to serve our joint interests to prepare the countries thoroughly for hopefully faster accession than is currently probably the case. so finally, thank you again for helping us to launch this eur 14.5 billion investment in peace, stability and prosperity for europe. as i am always saying: either we export stability or we import instability. the concept we have presented will definitely contribute to this aim, and i thank you for your valuable support. i am looking forward to further negotiations on this subject.
the rapporteur. madam president, i said in my opening speech - and i believe mr fleckenstein shared this in his - that it is important that the principles which inspire this regulation - which are at the basis of the european union's action and which we share with the pre-accession countries: peace, understanding, harmony and reconciliation - should be fundamental elements of our action for the future. so that children born today, for example in the western balkans, have to turn to the library and the history books to learn about the bloody reality of previous generations. i understand, madam president, that - as mr fleckenstein has also said - the component of this report represents a positive development. we hope that it can be adopted by a large majority in this parliament tomorrow and we understand, commissioner, and i have noted the need for coherence between foreign policy and enlargement policy. in any case, i would like to reiterate our readiness to make further progress in this procedure, where there is a great deal of agreement between the commission and the european parliament, and we hope that we can all quickly come up with a new regulation that will enable us to face the challenges facing the european union, not only absorbed in our internal dimension and the problems we have, such as brexit, but that we can deal with these neighbouring countries, these candidate countries, and that we can consolidate them in a financial instrument in which, curiously - mr preda referred to this a moment ago - we have a whole series of common provisions with the instrument dealing with the financing of the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation policy. and i am sure, commissioner, that we will be able to find ways of quickly adopting a definitive wording for this regulation, which will enable us to face realistically, and in accordance with the principles to which i referred earlier, the challenges we face in our immediate neighbourhood.
i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this matter in due course, and i am sure that the council will be able to give its opinion on this matter in due course. we are absolutely in agreement to support this transitional phase, to maintain the necessary support for a country like algeria, with which we have a long tradition of relations and which we absolutely need, close and with that relationship. we are also proud to have achieved in this last mandate something that i wanted for a long time: to have a bilateral delegation between the european union and algeria in parliament, which can be of help and which we of course offer to the commission so that we can cooperate to strengthen and offer the algerian people as soon as possible a democratic and peaceful transition.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, algeria is a country with enormous resources, but managed since its independence by a corrupt military oligarchy under the control of the ruling party the exclusive and exclusive party-state. there are two algeria: the official one, which is based on the legitimacy of a distant war of liberation, and the other, the young one, which is tired of words and old battles and which lives in hopelessness and unemployment. today, the chief of staff, general ahmed gaid salah, has called for the cessation of the ectoplasmic incapacity of virtual president buteflika. but let's not get our hopes up. power will be in the hands of the president of the council of the nation, abdelkader ben salah, but will remain in the hands of the army, general ahmed gaid salah. let's not confuse today. today started yesterday. last september, when general salah did the complete purge of the armed forces, including also the security services. it was the army preparing its own transition, with a principle from the prince of lampedusa, which is that "something must change for everything to stay the same". the point, the difference is that the people have started talking and they ran out of time. and so they have created the fiction that there is a possibility of change when the reality is that what they are seeking is to maintain and perpetuate themselves in power. but the question is: does the military gerontocracy understand that its time has passed and that it is necessary for algerian society to open up to a true democracy? algeria is vital to the stability of the sahel-sahara area in the south, and to our stability in north africa, in the southern mediterranean. this parliament must send a clear and unambiguous message of support to the algerian people in their inevitable and necessary transition. that we understand them, that they are not alone, that we support them and that we support what a better future means for an algeria that will mean a better future for all.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, i want to greet all the people who have taken to the streets in algeria, proudly, festively, with an unquestionable leadership of women, every friday for weeks. now, the army batons, the alienating rent and oil subsidies and the trauma of a bloody civil war no longer have any effect. an entire people have broken through fear, shame and submission to take hold of their destiny. but once again we see complete silence and a certain blindness on the part of brussels. the commissioner said that the european parliament had to be consulted on the matter. the eu must finally listen to the demands of the algerian street and stand ready to support their demands for a democratic transition, the opening up of public space and governance based on human rights and the dignity of all. we must support the streets of algiers, oran and constantinople to start a real process of democratic transition and avoid a mere false substitution of the present power.
the algerian women and algerians are demonstrating in the streets, fed up with a political and economic system which has proved to be totalitarian. under pressure, buteflika resigned from re-election, postponed the elections and opened a transition period. but the protesters in the streets are demanding real change, a national unity government that calls elections and a constitution that guarantees social needs, individual and collective freedoms. it's the biggest peaceful protest algeria has seen in years. but the international silence is overwhelming. algeria is europe's third largest gas supplier and the european union prioritizes the interests of multinationals and the import of gas over human rights. europe must support the protests and their demands. the european parliament expresses its support for the legitimate demands of the algerian society for justice and democracy. we have to act.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have been following with concern the latest developments in algeria: the suspension of the presidential elections and the request for disqualification of the president of the republic by the chief of staff. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is important that there is an inclusive dialogue, with the participation of political parties and civil society, that gives a legitimate channel of expression to all these groups and that in a credible way can give the word back to the algerian people through a process of free elections and with international accompaniment. i hope, commissioner, that the european union, which is a positive partner of algeria, can accompany this process and support the aspirations for freedom that we are seeing peacefully demonstrated in the streets of algeria.
madam president, commissioner, we are talking today about algeria after weeks of millions of algerians demonstrating every friday in protest against the social, political and economic situation in the country. claiming that there should not be a fifth term of president buteflika, but not only claiming that, but claiming the yearning for the dreams and hopes of a generation of algerians who today amount to 45 percent of the population, under the age of twenty-five who have been excluded from any process of progress and economic growth of the country. that is why we call on the government and the institutions which today make up the algerian regime, and on the european union as a whole, to be able to respect, listen and act as a result of this crisis. respect the millions of peaceful protesters. to hear the legitimate demands for change, reform, freedoms and rights. and to act to give a response and a way out to a regime that needs democratic transformations and that respond to the aspirations of the algerian people.
madam president, algeria is a very important country for the european union and its member states and is at a crucial moment. it is a country that has gone through - we all know it - a very long and difficult period in the 1990s, when the islamist and terrorist challenge resulted in numerous deaths. now another stage is closed, the one presided over by buteflika, who has finally given up his bid for re-election for the fifth time. a new political moment is thus opening up. algeria is entering a transition phase, and this process, in my view, should be fast-paced and very inclusive in its approach; 'inclusive' is the word you have repeated, commissioner, and i take it up. the algerian people have the opportunity for change after a long period; a change they are demanding from the streets, through peaceful demonstrations and popular protests, i would also like to emphasize this. algerians do not want clashes or violence, or destabilize the country. i'm sure you don't want to travel to the past either, because it's about winning the future. and the european union must be very attentive to this process. we must be prepared to accompany the algerians in this period of change, offering our cooperation if they wish to count on us. it is up to the algerian people, in a dialogue, inclusive, democratic and peaceful way, to decide their future.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, today we are discussing the five years of what you call the occupation of crimea, a definition that has been questioned for years by jurists such as professor reinhard merkel, a member of the german ethics council. for you, the story begins with crimea; for those of us who have memory, it begins with the maidan and the interference of some parties in this house in that process. but the truth is, it starts much further back. it is a pity that we are not discussing here this week the 20 years of nato's aggression against yugoslavia. how international law was broken then; exactly the same as some people accuse russia of today. many mistakes were made during and after that: the policy of sanctions against russia and the logical response, which has caused the loss of thousands of jobs in spain or italy. also the attempts to muzzle the press of europe, appealing to the fight against russian propaganda, or the normalization of neo-nazi groups and the historical revisionism of anti-semitic collaborators, such as stepán bandera or roman shujévich.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, the great hopes and demands that drove the arab spring are still unfulfilled today. in most countries, the root causes of popular mobilization - social inequality, unemployment, lack of opportunities, authoritarianism, repression, corruption - remain unaddressed and, worse, the situation in some countries is deteriorating. it must be admitted that the european union's response to the developments following the arab spring was also inadequate. it highlights the lack of vision and ambition, as well as the fact that some member states have often prioritized particular interests and special relationships over a coordinated and coherent response. it is necessary for the european union to place human rights and democratisation at the heart of its policy towards the mena region, since authoritarian states are inherently fragile and since stability and prosperity in the region cannot be achieved without democratic systems that address social inequalities and respect human rights.
mr. president, our southern neighborhood is very important. unfortunately, in recent years, in many of these countries, the hopes raised by the arab spring have not borne fruit in stable and prosperous democratic regimes. on the contrary, they now face many problems. they have serious challenges: political, economic, social, security; these countries must be a priority for the institutions of the union. for the last 20 years, we have paid great attention to the countries of eastern europe from here, and our neighbours to the south have felt somewhat neglected by us. there, now, the ones growing are the gulf countries, particularly. and yet, there are many interests and challenges that we share: security, migration, climate change, energy supply, the fight against terrorism, important trade flows to preserve, investments, and so on. we must also intensify our political dialogue with these countries, both bilaterally and in the multilateral framework. and there is the union for the mediterranean, which has turned ten years old and has not been used sufficiently, despite the high expectations with which it was born and which, however, with the consequences of the arab spring, has not been able to unleash its full potential. i would also like to point out that many of the member states - my own spain, for example - have close links with the countries of the southern neighbourhood for geographical and historical reasons. we must all guide these countries, the european union, in the same direction: dialogue, cooperation, investment flows to help modernisation and economic diversification within this region, and also aid for the training of young people. the mediterranean countries - i repeat - must be a priority of priorities for the european union and its member states.
madam president, my colleague esther de lange has taken the picture: we are debating brexit and all the seats of the brexit representatives are empty. they come to europe to collect, but not to work. the british parliament must behave like an adult parliament and make a decision, because there are millions of people who are waiting for them. it's time for the political game to end. it's time to decide "in" or "out", there's no other choice. and if there is no possibility of the united kingdom remaining and if they are not even considering remaining in the future, we cannot hold european elections in the united kingdom again. if we are to continue negotiating, we did not have any canadian members of parliament here when we negotiated an agreement with canada, nor any japanese members of parliament when we negotiated an agreement with japan. so we cannot have british members of parliament just to negotiate an agreement with the british, unless there are also spanish, french, dutch or german members of parliament in the british parliament. you can't be on both sides of the bargain. we're not playing the present, we're playing future generations.
madam president, mr tusk, many of us in this european parliament have been critical of the council on many occasions. not this time, no. you did the right thing by setting a certain date. no more extension on 12 april for the british parliament to find an exit plan an exit plan, but not from the european union, but from the labyrinth from which they cannot get out. we have often shown all our sympathy for the millions of britons who are marching to remain in the european union, but never enough demand for the irresponsible demagogues who have caused so much harm to the british people by deceiving and manipulating them. and of course, it must be said quite clearly that now is the time, there is no more extension. the bad news is, they haven't let us talk about practically anything else. the good news is the hourglass is already running against you. a message to the house of commons: decide, clarify. or exit or revocation, without which there should be no european elections in the uk. but they should do it as soon as possible and answer for the damage done.
in writing. we in the european parliament have often been critical of the european council. not this time, no. you did the right thing by setting a certain date. no more extension on 12 april for the british parliament to find an exit plan an exit plan but not from the european union, but from the labyrinth from which they cannot get out. we have often shown all our sympathy for the millions of britons who are marching to remain in the european union, but never enough demand for the irresponsible demagogues who have caused so much harm to the british people by deceiving and manipulating them. and of course, it must be said quite clearly that now is the time, there is no more extension. the bad news is, they haven't let us talk about practically anything else. the good news is the hourglass is already running against you. a message to the house of commons: make up your mind, make it clear. or exit or revocation, without which there should be no european elections in the uk. but they should do it as soon as possible and answer for the damage done.
in writing. we in the european parliament have often been critical of the european council. not this time, no. you did the right thing by setting a certain date. no more extension on 12 april for the british parliament to find an exit plan an exit plan but not from the european union, but from the labyrinth from which they cannot get out. we have often shown all our sympathy for the millions of britons who are marching to remain in the european union, but never enough demand for the irresponsible demagogues who have caused so much harm to the british people by deceiving and manipulating them. and of course, it must be said quite clearly that now is the time, there is no more extension. the bad news is, they haven't let us talk about practically anything else. the good news is the hourglass is already running against you. a message to the house of commons: make up your mind, make it clear. or exit or revocation, without which there should be no european elections in the uk. but they should do it as soon as possible and answer for the damage done.
in writing. we in the european parliament have often been critical of the european council. not this time, no. you did the right thing by setting a certain date. no more extension on 12 april for the british parliament to find an exit plan an exit plan but not from the european union, but from the labyrinth from which they cannot get out. we have often shown all our sympathy for the millions of britons who are marching to remain in the european union, but never enough demand for the irresponsible demagogues who have caused so much harm to the british people by deceiving and manipulating them. and of course, it must be said quite clearly that now is the time, there is no more extension. the bad news is, they haven't let us talk about practically anything else. the good news is the hourglass is already running against you. a message to the house of commons: make up your mind, make it clear. or exit or revocation, without which there should be no european elections in the uk. but they should do it as soon as possible and answer for the damage done.
in writing. we in the european parliament have often been critical of the european council. not this time, no. you did the right thing by setting a certain date. no more extension on 12 april for the british parliament to find an exit plan an exit plan but not from the european union, but from the labyrinth from which they cannot get out. we have often shown all our sympathy for the millions of britons who are marching to remain in the european union, but never enough demand for the irresponsible demagogues who have caused so much harm to the british people by deceiving and manipulating them. and of course, it must be said quite clearly that now is the time, there is no more extension. the bad news is, they haven't let us talk about practically anything else. the good news is the hourglass is already running against you. a message to the house of commons: make up your mind, make it clear. or exit or revocation, without which there should be no european elections in the uk. but they should do it as soon as possible and answer for the damage done.
in writing. we in the european parliament have often been critical of the european council. not this time, no. you did the right thing by setting a certain date. no more extension on 12 april for the british parliament to find an exit plan an exit plan but not from the european union, but from the labyrinth from which they cannot get out. we have often shown all our sympathy for the millions of britons who are marching to remain in the european union, but never enough demand for the irresponsible demagogues who have caused so much harm to the british people by deceiving and manipulating them. and of course, it must be said quite clearly that now is the time, there is no more extension. the bad news is, they haven't let us talk about practically anything else. the good news is the hourglass is already running against you. a message to the house of commons: make up your mind, make it clear. or exit or revocation, without which there should be no european elections in the uk. but they should do it as soon as possible and answer for the damage done.
in writing. we in the european parliament have often been critical of the european council. not this time, no. you did the right thing by setting a certain date. no more extension on 12 april for the british parliament to find an exit plan an exit plan but not from the european union, but from the labyrinth from which they cannot get out. we have often shown all our sympathy for the millions of britons who are marching to remain in the european union, but never enough demand for the irresponsible demagogues who have caused so much harm to the british people by deceiving and manipulating them. and of course, it must be said quite clearly that now is the time, there is no more extension. the bad news is, they haven't let us talk about practically anything else. the good news is the hourglass is already running against you. a message to the house of commons: make up your mind, make it clear. or exit or revocation, without which there should be no european elections in the uk. but they should do it as soon as possible and answer for the damage done.
in writing. we in the european parliament have often been critical of the european council. not this time, no. you did the right thing by setting a certain date. no more extension on 12 april for the british parliament to find an exit plan an exit plan but not from the european union, but from the labyrinth from which they cannot get out. we have often shown all our sympathy for the millions of britons who are marching to remain in the european union, but never enough demand for the irresponsible demagogues who have caused so much harm to the british people by deceiving and manipulating them. and of course, it must be said quite clearly that now is the time, there is no more extension. the bad news is, they haven't let us talk about practically anything else. the good news is the hourglass is already running against you. a message to the house of commons: make up your mind, make it clear. or exit or revocation, without which there should be no european elections in the uk. but they should do it as soon as possible and answer for the damage done.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all, commissioner bulc would like to apologise for not being here today. the mobility package remains of course a political priority for the commission, and for commissioner bulc in particular. however, she must participate in the informal transport council, which is taking place in bucharest. in may 2017, when the commission adopted the first part of the mobility package, it aimed first of all at improving working conditions in the road transport sector; secondly, at ensuring fair competition and avoiding internal market fragmentation through uncoordinated national rules; and, thirdly, at reducing the administrative burden for operators and allowing more efficient and targeted controls through further digitalisation. since then, we have come a long way, and i would like to thank you for your efforts, and in particular the three rapporteurs, ms kyllönen, mr van de camp and mr ertug, who have been major driving forces in this process. from the beginning, we knew that this was going to be a marathon rather than a sprint. the stakes are very high on these proposals. that is why a long maturation period was unavoidable for these proposals to sink in and be improved. with the general approach reached in council on 3 december 2018, and the work of the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs in this house, we are now close to a good compromise on this major reform of road transport. the road sector needs a breakthrough now. the hauliers and the drivers need a fair and stable framework for the next years. the sector cannot wait any longer. a swift agreement in parliament will show that this house is committed to address the pressing challenges this sector faces. the intense work of the parliament has allowed us to reach rather uncontroversial solutions on important issues, such as the fight against letterbox companies; enhanced cooperation between national authorities; the better use of digital tools, such as tachographs, electronic freight documents and the notification of posting declarations; and proportionate rules for light commercial vehicles. progress on these issues allowed parliament to focus the last discussions on the main outstanding issues, namely the rules on cabotage, the driving and rest times, and last, but certainly not least, the lex specialis on the application of the posting rules in road transport. in our view, the compromise proposals tabled strike a good balance and meet the general objectives of the commission’s proposals: better enforcement, better working conditions, less administrative burden on road transport undertakings, and reaping the benefits of digitalisation. at this stage, the commission maintains a general reserve, but it will continue to support discussions with a view to reaching an agreement on these priority files. we can support all amendments which maintain the balance between the freedom to provide transport services, improve working conditions and reduce administrative burdens. let me now make a few considerations on particular points. i will start with the lex specialis on posting of workers. when the general posting of workers directive was revised, there was a clear commitment to adopt specific rules for road transport. the so—called split model for the posting of directives, while being different from the approach proposed by the commission, strikes a good balance between the protection of the social rights of drivers and the freedom for operators to provide cross-border transport services. it is supported by the rapporteur and contained in the general approach adopted by council. moreover, we support posting requirements for the road transport sector that are as simple as possible to apply and to control with the use of digital tools. we believe that the approach promoted by ms kyllönen meets these objectives. i turn now to the rules on driving and rest times. this is a sensitive subject, which has a direct impact on working conditions and road safety. in the commission’s view, the driver must be able to take his normal and long weekly rest either at home with his family, or in comfortable accommodation – not in the truck cabin. at the same time, drivers also need to be granted suitable, safe and secure resting facilities. therefore, ensuring the availability of such facilities is crucial. the commission supports and actively promotes the development of safe and secure parking areas, including through financial support from the eu budget. i can assure you that the commission will intensify its efforts, including through eu funding under the next connecting europe facility. for passenger transport, the sector has received a clear message over the last weeks. certain driving and rest time rules are not adapted to the activity of a coach or bus driver. the message has been heard, and we are ready to start immediately a comprehensive assessment on specific rules for these drivers, if this house so requests. for sure, our objective will remain the same: improving the working conditions of drivers and road safety. let me finish on the rules on access to the profession and to the market. on cabotage, i am pleased that the rapporteur maintains the concept of an unlimited number of operations over a certain period of time, which was proposed by the commission. cabotage, the cooling—off period and the regular return of the truck to the member state of establishment have been the subject of intense debates. we have to reach a balance here. the obligation for the trucks to return to the member state of establishment should be assessed together with the additional establishment criteria, and also the new rule requiring drivers to return home on a regular basis. i look forward to the debate. please carefully reflect on the links between the different areas of the mobility package. i would appeal to all to be constructive and to focus on solutions that work for the road haulage sector and its workers, and of course, for the european union economy. this vote will be crucial for the work ahead of us.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. madam president, first of all i would like to express my regret that after months of work no agreement has been reached and therefore i have to make the following comments. we must bear in mind the different realities of road transport in the union, both in terms of distance and time, and avoid seeing this package as a confrontation between countries and think about the common good of the sector. of course it is important to defend workers and ensure their safety. we all want to do this and we have made a lot of progress, but we cannot generalize and use illegal practices - which have certainly been used - as a pretext for protectionist purposes. we cannot renounce the freedom of movement of persons and goods, the freedom of establishment, the freedom to provide services, which are the basic building blocks of the internal market and the process of integration of the european union. if we want a more economically, socially and territorially cohesive europe, we cannot take steps backwards and remove the barriers in the internal market which we have worked so hard to achieve.
i am sorry that commissioner bulc is not here today, because i think she should have been here. as an alternative rapporteur on mrs kyllönen's report, i must thank the spirit of good work and cooperation we have had with the rapporteur and with the rest of the colleagues in reinforcing - because that was the basis - rigorous control. in fact, we're moving forward on the mandatory digital tachograph by 2022. but in any case we do not want this control to be discriminatory and to be associated with xenophobic protectionism. we don't want the driver to be the one to blame. companies and administrations should, in their charge, facilitate all possible control tasks, because in the 5g era it is aberrant to have drivers standing on the road to control piles of paper documents. it's dangerous and humiliating. we also want proportional application, that is to say, we agree with the rapporteur, with mrs kyllönen, on the exclusion of transit and international transport, and we are against the return of the lorry home, which we find absolutely aberrant. however, we need a flexible return home for our spanish and portuguese drivers.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, the smooth operation of transport is key to the union's competitiveness. this mobility package is a key element in ending the problems of fragmentation caused by internal social dumping and inequalities in market access for operators. that is why i am committed to adopting common rules that put an end to the state-to-state solutions which, with the intention of solving these problems, have actually made them grow. that is why i support the positions of compromise put forward by the rapporteurs in these three reports. the measures we propose improve the conditions of professionals, contribute to road safety and transport efficiency and pave the way for a near future in which digitisation and decarbonisation will change our lives for the better. the citizenry elects us to try for the best, but they know that the best is the enemy of the good. in the transport sector, too. that is why those who block this european solution out of pure electoralism are wrong. this mobility package is not the best of all possible, but it has enough work, talks, participation and agreements to be much better than what we have today.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, the dignification of the hard working conditions of drivers cannot be made conditional on allowing social dumping when regulating the movement of drivers to other member states. the conservatives tell us: 'if you want drivers to spend their weekly rest outside their vehicle, in decent conditions, then allow a spanish driver to be paid less when driving outside spain.' what kind of blackmail is this? we must establish fair regulation so that drivers can sleep in a decent bed during their breaks, that they do not have to work for more than two weeks in a row outside their place of origin, that vehicles incorporate the smart tachograph so that fraud is a thing of the past, and we must abolish unfair competition by sending drivers abroad for less than they deserve. it is a question of dignity in labour rights and it is a question of safety.
madam president, the agreements reached in the committee on transport were a complicated balance that was broken by the rejection in the june 2018 plenary of the three negotiating mandates. the three commission proposals, i believe - and i say this with all due respect - reflect the clear interests of some countries in the centre of the union in hindering companies from the peripheral countries which provide transport services in these countries. their transport companies, whether they like it or not, are more competitive. the defence position is to accuse it of social dumping and even of trying to impose european minimum wages. this is a very strong position against the free market, and arguments of worker protection have been used to hide national protectionism. yes to the protection of workers; no to their use for other less dignified purposes. the restriction of cabin breaks for drivers, the performance of cabotage operations, administrative requirements for the certification of minimum wages and employment contracts, and the inclusion of smaller vehicles (vans) in the scope of the legislation will lead to higher costs for the performance of transport work by companies from peripheral countries. the time for negotiation is over. this must be done by the next house. and i, after 15 years in the transport field, am going to regret it. i wish you luck and success.
mr president, mr vice-president, mr commissioner, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs ries, and mr florenz, who has been our circular economy officer, on all the work done on this dossier, which forms part of the main body of the 2018 circular economy package, together with other dossiers such as port facilities for receiving waste from ships. this dosage is especially important. the european citizens are very aware of the waste generated by plastic; some even advocate a total ban on this material, but we must be pragmatic and understand that there are still areas where there are no alternatives. we in our group therefore want to encourage investment in greater innovation by industry to make viable alternatives to plastics and to replace them with new, more sustainable materials. a transition in the use of these materials must be ensured to reduce our footprint on the environment in which we live. we owe it to the generations to come. moreover, this transition to a fully circular economy is an opportunity for the generation of new jobs with high added value and economic growth for the reindustrialisation of the european union. and it is the responsibility of all europeans who are called to the polls on 26 may to support with our vote parties that are working to ensure an orderly transition to a more economically, socially and environmentally sustainable world.
madam president, i would like to join this debate with a few questions. we are talking about a regulation within the total of regulations on the circular economy; a regulation that will come into force after twenty years of the current regulation. there are therefore important changes and updates needed. i would like to point out that these current fertilizers are crucial for agriculture, but there is no doubt that improper use can have significant risks and negative impacts on the environment and public health. and this is what is intended to be corrected, among other things. many have welcomed the inclusion of organic fertilisers; it is certainly a value. but i do want to say something about organic fertilisers: it is important to continue to innovate, to improve their efficiency and effectiveness and, of course, to respect the requirements of the nitrate directive, also in organic fertilisers, which are important. and finally, i would like to say that i am in favour of the agreement on cadmium. the position has been balanced by setting those sixty milligrams. this is an agreement: it is not the position of one party, but it is an agreement between all parties. and i think that reduction is an adequate reduction for today's needs.
mr president, commissioner, as some of you know, i was the rapporteur for the report on regulation (ec) no 539/2001, which regulates the union's visa policy. i have also been concerned about the suspension mechanism, which is derived from the reference regulation. and i have intervened on many occasions in the inclusion in the negative list of the regulation of several countries such as colombia, peru, taiwan, georgia, ukraine, and so on. all these countries have one common characteristic: they are sovereign states. the first sentence of article 1 (1) of regulation (ec) no 539/2001 begins with the words: 'third-country nationals ...'. in the debate we are having today, we are not talking about any country. for us, kosovo is a serbian province which, like vojvodina, is part of its territorial integrity. we cannot provide political instruments which facilitate the dismemberment of a sovereign state such as serbia. our position as the spanish people's party is well known. the union is made up of 28 states. the regulation is for 28 states, not 23. how could it be partially implemented? we would be dealing with an instrument of very dubious legality. the legislative initiative which is proposed cannot be applied in spain, slovakia, cyprus, romania or greece. if this proposal succeeds, the court of justice of the european union will certainly be confronted with appeals from the five sovereign states mentioned. none of these five states will allow visa exemption for citizens of a serbian province. the union does not grant visa exemption to provinces, only to sovereign states. what i'm saying is legally and legally indisputable. this is even less so through regulation (ec) no 539/2001. (the speaker agrees to answer two questions put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the answer is 'blue card'. thank you very much, mrs vergiat. i also have the best opinion of you and your work. but no, no; she's not well informed. the five member states have not given their consent to what they cannot give their consent to. the five member states cannot partially grant visa-free travel to a province which is part of a sovereign state.
the answer is 'blue card'. mrs fajon, i too acknowledge your work and greatly appreciate the long-standing cooperation we have had. you see, the answer is very similar to the one i gave to mrs vergiat. no, it is one thing to provide a travel document and another thing to give a travel document to what, in the sphere of international relations, is not a sovereign state. i would like to say and reiterate that, legally, irrespective of the fact that it has been recognized by many countries in the international community, the regulation in question is for the union. it's for 28 states in the union. it is not for the 23 states of the union. so it will be legally impossible to apply to the union. that is why there will be appeals, i say this clearly, there will be appeals from five states which are not subject to this regulation because they do not recognise a serbian province such as kosovo.
i would like to congratulate mr maňka on the work he has done to approve the estimates of the budget to the european parliament in a timely manner, but also on his 15 years in this parliament. and, given that this legislature is coming to an end, i also think we can take advantage of it to take stock of the legislature. in these five years, we have managed prudently, with moderate increases linked to inflation, and we have adapted to new circumstances, from the need, for example, to increase security in our buildings to combating fake news, to adapting to the likely possibility of a new reality of a europe of 27. and when we talk about the budget, we are talking about an administrative budget, the purpose of which is to use the resources available efficiently to achieve its ultimate objective, which is to legislate. and an institution that wants to legislate from outside the door must set an example from inside. and we've made progress, but it's been very difficult. because, for example, it was in 2013 when the youth intergroup launched the campaign in which we asked this house to be obliged to pay a living wage to its scholars, and we have achieved this, but it has cost us five years. and we also need to set an example in the fight against sexual and occupational harassment, and here we are far from being that. but thanks to the 'me too' movement in this parliament and the efforts of some members, a catalogue of measures to lead the fight for equality has been put on the table. and speaking of equality and setting an example, we cannot be forced in this house to choose between the right to vote and the right to maternity or paternity leave. so we ask the bureau to put in place a system for televoting as a matter of urgency, and to bring this parliament into the 21st century at last.
mr president, commissioner, i believe that the commission has carried out a review of the existing legislation on water intended for human consumption which is timely, because the current rules needed updating. the commission has been right to identify four main areas for improvement: parameters, the risk-based approach, transparency of information and materials in contact with water. it should also be stressed that the member states are applying the european union's standards in the field of drinking water quite successfully and that the present proposal is a step forward which will allow us to anticipate problems and prevent some of them. we now have technical advances, improved laboratory controls, new technologies, depreciated facilities and a greater awareness of environmental variables. and all this can be improved by this water directive. the european parliament's text contains important improvements in terms of access to a quality water supply, the promotion of rational water consumption, the reduction of leaks in the supply network - which is very important - , the anticipation of the impact of water resources on the climate and greater safety of the materials used. and finally, it provides solutions to reduce the consumption of water from plastic bottles. the possibility of smaller water distributors having more flexible conditions than larger ones is also envisaged. i would like to end by congratulating my colleague, dr dantin, very warmly, because he has tried to be prudent in balancing the new obligations of the directive with the need to contain supply charges and the principle of cost recovery. and i also regret the lack of agility in the council in being able to reach an agreement during this parliamentary term.
mr president, water and sanitation are a human right. water is a common good, a public good, not a commodity. we call on the commission, commissioner, to implement the right to water and sanitation as recognized by the un and as a country like bolivia has done, the country that has made water a human right. it is necessary for the states and europe to ensure access to common water with adequate and modernised infrastructure because infrastructure is not always able to provide an adequate service. water services should be excluded from liberalisation. it is a matter of social justice and universal and equitable access must be guaranteed in all parts of europe. i think this report is in line with the commission's intention to recognise the right to water. the states have again boycotted and often fail to respect the right to sanitation and to access to drinking water, as is the case with the spanish state and other states which boycott this right which is supported by a large part of european citizens. having clean water is good for human and animal health, and water as a common good is good for all citizens. and i speak with knowledge, because in my country, which is the land of a thousand rivers, water is paid for at a very high price. another important thing is to update citizens' access to drinking water quality data, which is not always guaranteed.
mr president, water is a human right indispensable for life and we must therefore protect it from privatisation, pollution, inappropriate planting such as eucalyptus or major infrastructure. but this is not the case in the european union as a whole. in my own country, galicia, rivers are polluted by mines such as san fins or touro, by large-scale projects such as the high-speed railway, by inadequate or inefficient waste water treatment plants which discharge waste water directly into the sea or rivers such as the sar. macro-landfills like sogama, projects that fill the polluted waste holes left behind by quarries like miramontes or casalonga. there is also pollution from sewage sludge that is dumped on the land, industrial agriculture, such as coren and leyma, glyphosate, or pesticides. all this is happening with the union's support and funding. we must put an end to all this because that is what will allow us to have clean water.
mr president, commissioner, the debate on the directive on the quality of water intended for human consumption is certainly very important, and it is for a number of reasons. firstly, because it is the only popular initiative that has succeeded in getting over one and a half million signatures from european citizens concerned about this issue. access to water and its sustainable management, as well as to sanitation, is the sixth objective of the sustainable development goals and, according to eurostat data, almost 2% of europeans have access problems. in addition, such access is an intrinsic part of the european pillar of social rights, which, in its point 20, establishes the right to access to good quality essential services, including water. we must also approve this directive because it can help us to achieve a target linked to the reduction of waste generation, since the increased consumption of tap water, encouraged by the increase in its quality levels, can reduce the consumption of bottled water by almost a fifth, while reducing the plastic waste generated in parallel. better quality, better access - especially for the most vulnerable and marginalised sectors - more transparency for consumers in their consumption bill and less red tape through improved electronic information systems. i take to heart, mr president, the words of president juncker in his state of the union address: 'today's europeans and future generations deserve a europe that protects their living standards.' we deserve a europe that empowers us, a europe that helps and protects. i would like to congratulate mr dantin on the great work he has done in this dossier. however, it is a shame that despite the efforts of the commission and this parliament, the member states have not made this a priority and we have to postpone the negotiations until the next mandate. (the speaker ends his speech in catalan)
mr president, commissioner king, commissioner avramopoulos, i assure you of my full support as a spanish and european socialist for any initiative - in particular this regulation - which will make it possible to combat terrorism and transnational crime more effectively through information technology. what is interoperability? the commission has already made it possible to pool all the databases for border control: the visa information system, the schengen information system, eurodac, but also the new technologies applied to etias, the entry and exit system and even the exchange of information on criminal records, which we call ecris. but we socialists have stressed that this must be compatible with three precautions. first, don't be misled into thinking that immigration is a terrorist threat, because they're not the same thing. the second is to ensure strict compliance with the european data protection regulation, with european law protecting the confidentiality of personal data. and the third is that it should also comply with the principles of proportionality and necessity when it concerns fundamental rights, because that is also complying with european law.
member of the commission. – mr president, the insolvency directive, which comes to a vote tomorrow, has two goals – to enable the rescue of viable businesses which are in financial distress, and to ensure that honest entrepreneurs who failed are given a second chance. we agree that, together, these measures will help facilitate the free movement of capital as well as the freedom of establishment for businesses by putting in place a european approach, removing the obstacles that can result from the differences in national laws and procedures on preventive restructuring insolvency and second chances. this development of a so-called rescue culture in the eu is key for encouraging entrepreneurship and economic growth. on behalf of the commission, i’d like to thank the rapporteur, ms niebler, as well as the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation and hard work to conclude the file to get it to this point. this directive puts in place minimum harmonisation provisions, ensuring firstly that viable enterprises in financial difficulties have access to effective national preventative restructuring frameworks, which will enable them to continue operating. secondly, it also ensures that honest insolvent or over-indebted entrepreneurs have a second chance at creating a business after a full discharge of debt, following a reasonable period of time, up to a maximum of three years. thirdly, the directive will improve the effectiveness of restructuring, insolvency and discharge procedures, in particular with a view to shortening the amount of time that they can take. this in turn will help increase investment and job opportunities across the single market, reduce unnecessary liquidations of viable companies, thereby reducing job losses, prevent the build-up of non-performing loans, and reduce costs and increase opportunities for those entrepreneurs, whom we want to support if they need a fresh start. i look forward to this debate and the vote tomorrow. i hope there is strong support for this.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, mr commissioner, thank you very much for coming to dignify this great piece of legislation - i believe - of parliament, because it marks a kind of change of trend in the treatment of entrepreneurship and risk-taking in europe, almost we would say a little closer to the american one, which has always been praised. some 200 000 eu businesses - almost 600 a day - go bankrupt every year, and some 7 million jobs are lost every year. why would you do that? often it is because of an absolute rigidity in the application of the rules, in an almost administrative and accounting view of something as alive as an industrial or business fabric. this piece of legislation is very important because it directly affects the most active part of our society and, at european level, it improves the lives of our companies and the workers affected by the life of these companies. essentially four things. greater convergence of insolvency and restructuring procedures. it means a stronger and more credible single market, also in the financial world. it provides greater legal certainty for crossborder investors, which is a way of breaking down borders, which is the future of europe. it also encourages the timely restructuring of viable companies in financial difficulties. we would have liked to go further in the econ committee, for example, with that priority which sometimes comes from the administrations and from law enforcement, but it is all the same. there is a fourth fundamental point. and it's protecting workers, giving companies and workers a second chance, and betting much more on survival than having to get rid of it.
madam president, the european cultural heritage is very important, and i very much welcome its prominent place in mrs costa's report and in the creative europe programme. we must preserve and recover this heritage. i am particularly pleased that mrs costa's report clearly supports more structured and ambitious cooperation with the council of europe on the european cultural routes programme. these routes, now 33, show the enormous richness and diversity of european culture. but they also bear witness to the close historical, cultural and artistic ties which bind us europeans. we are a true cultural community that transcends national boundaries. the european union is more than an economic and trade union set up after the second world war to preserve peace. that is important, of course, but it is also true that this europe is a community with deep cultural and historical roots in common, and this is evidenced by our cultural heritage. that's why we must preserve it, take care of it. it is a great testimony to that basic european unity.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank my colleague, mr milan zver, and the other alternative rapporteurs with whom we have worked for months on this new regulation. the erasmus programme has made a decisive contribution to the spread of a genuine european identity, to the creation of a generation of people who have grown up with a stronger sense of european belonging. it is also an ongoing project, since the ultimate aim is to achieve a federal europe, overcoming national egotism, populism and private interests. in connection with this regulation, here are some of our specific proposals for the parliamentary report: increase funding up to three times the current budget; increase the number of participants and get more people from disadvantaged backgrounds to participate; promote the initiative on european university networks aimed at building a european education area. our aim is to propose transnational alliances that will constitute the european universities of the future, promoting european values and identity and revolutionising the quality and competitiveness of our higher education. the programme also has an important international dimension, with a dual objective: to facilitate the movement and international mobility of young people by promoting teaching and research; and to support dialogue between countries and to promote cultural relations between the union and third countries by creating projects to develop and modernise educational mechanisms in the partner countries. for all these reasons, we consider erasmus+ to be a winning programme of the european union; erasmus is the most successful initiative in the field of education: more than 10 million people have taken part in the programme since its launch in 1987. thanks to this new legislative phase, even more european citizens will be able to benefit from the erasmus programme in the coming years, so take part, join in and don't miss it.
madam president, in the previous parliament, when the union's budget was reduced, we in parliament managed to increase the budget for erasmus by 43%. and now i welcome the request to triple the current budget, which will enable many young people to enjoy this great experience which contributes to improving their future employment, while increasing their sense of belonging to the european union. in my opinion, the erasmus programme has done more for european unity than any treaty that has been signed. the report i was rapporteur for in 2011 on the european dimension of sport called for the creation of an erasmus for sport. i welcome the commission's proposal. this chapter pursues such essential objectives as the fight against violence, intolerance and discrimination and promotes volunteering and social inclusion, without forgetting the importance of physical activity for health. a person who plays sports, who adheres to the rules and has a spirit of self-improvement, is more likely to be a better citizen. finally, i am very pleased that the budget for sport has been increased by up to 2%, and i hope that it will continue to do so in the coming years, which will allow these important values to continue to be promoted among european citizens. and i would like to congratulate my dear colleague, milan zver, on his excellent report.
madam president, what about the erasmus programme? i myself enjoyed it in 1993 in germany: a student at a galician university who was studying and working to pay for her studies was unlikely to have an opportunity to go abroad and, thanks to erasmus and that opportunity, is possibly today an mep. after this brief personal introduction, i would like to give a positive assessment of the commission's proposal, because the promotion of access and social inclusion in the most disadvantaged environments and the possibility for people with fewer resources to have access to programmes of this kind is certainly one of the european successes which also contributes to the relationship and exchange between peoples, between universities. there are thousands of young people who have been able to make this exchange a reality and to undertake internships and studies. but it is true that it should not be confined to universities, but should also be extended to vocational training to give it a much broader dimension. and what to say, of course, about the budget issue. the budget must be increased, and so must the contribution, because some member states do not contribute enough, and the students who go have to work too in order to study.
mr president, all those who have spoken in this debate have unanimously extolled the virtues of the erasmus programme, one of the most precious assets for young people. and i think we have done the right thing by increasing its firepower: 43 billion euros in the budget scenario 21-27 and i hope we can make it grow more. but i hope we can also tell young people that this european parliament has approved the european voluntary service and that the european union is a world giant in humanitarian aid and in the cause of peace; and that the european union is a heavyweight in development cooperation and that there is therefore a message for young people to mobilise themselves also in defence of european values, not just to enjoy the erasmus programme but to defend europe by voting. there are european elections on 26 may. i hope we can tell young people that it is worthwhile to mobilise all their forces, as much as the europhobes do, to defeat europhobia and euroscepticism at the polls and to defend the cause of europe at the polls.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleague mr eickhout on his good work. i think that in this regulation we are playing the game of making the declarations and resolutions we have so often voted on on climate change a reality. yes, moving investments towards ecological transition and sustainability is fundamental; as eickhout said, moving the trillions of euros that move every day and that move and make our economy work. to do this, there are three main objectives: to change these investments, to move them towards sustainable investments; to define clearly what is and what is not a sustainable investment; and to put the financial sector under strict climate control. and for that, there are some things that we have to do that are very important. firstly, not just regulating investments that are already sustainable, but covering the whole financial sector, which i believe has been the effort made with this regulation. secondly, define a list of what are not sustainable investments. and i agree wholeheartedly: we cannot include issues like coal, like shale gas, like intensive animal husbandry as sustainable investments. this is beyond all logic. third, also, to have a strict definition of what is a sustainable investment and not allow a certain greenwashing or that someone can put the seal of sustainable investment on something that is not. finally, when we talk about sustainable investment, we cannot forget the social dimension, which is fundamental. i therefore hope that, with today's vote, including the amendments tabled, we can have an ambitious regulation that will make real the promises to combat climate change in the paris agreement, which are often expressed verbally in this house.
mr president, there will be no sustainable finance without a commitment to social justice and without democratic control of investments. the expert group report recommended a comprehensive approach to sustainable finance that referred to the need for environmental, social and governance criteria. the fight against exclusion and the improvement of the quality of democracy in all areas are a requirement in the battle of the century: to make our planet sustainable. in spain 70% of the population is affected by climate change and the advance of desertification is the biggest challenge we face. the word that describes the situation all over the planet is emergency. we have only a few years to reverse this suicidal trend. that's why finance must stop being an incentive for the destruction of the planet. if we lack ambition, we'll only have words to offer. and our youth, our society, demands facts from us.
madam president, moving forward on restricting single-use plastic products counts on my vote in favour, because the new rules approved in the european parliament prohibit certain single-use plastic products for which there are alternatives, such as plates, cutlery, cotton swabs, straws, drink shakers, balloon bars, food and drink containers, such as this plastic bottle, because for these plastic bottles, at least 90% of them must be collected separately by 2029. moreover, over 80% of the eu's marine litter is plastic, as we know very well in galicia. and the single-use plastic products and fishing gear covered by this directive also represent 70% of marine litter, so the fisheries sector also needs to be helped to do this sorting. the waste that is found in many marine species can enter the food chain.
mr president, thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to speak. i just wanted to ask mr obermayr - since he was not going to ask for a second blue card - if he would agree that austrian pensioners living, for example, in southern europe, in spain, should also receive pensions in line with the pensions we receive in spain and therefore - look at this - the austrian government would save all the pensions of austrian pensioners. i think that if that principle, surely, seems to you completely out of place, in the same way, what your government is doing with children who are entitled to allowance for their parents' work and for contributions should be clear to you. and to mrs thyssen i would just like to ask why the commission cannot open infringement proceedings directly in this situation. i think it is one of the hardest things to lose confidence in the european union.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, the british have decided to leave. it makes no sense that, in addition to leaving, they want to decide what our position should be. in the european union you are either in or out, and if you are out you cannot decide what position we who are left in have to take. if they leave, don't pretend to decide for us. inside or outside. they've chosen outside. perhaps this is a demonstration that a long extension of article 50 is not necessary.
mr president, mr prime minister, i want to say to you first of all 'thank you' because when i was very young we received money from the swedish social democratic party for the spanish socialists who were fighting against francoism, against the dictatorship. i will not forget a picture of olof palme collecting or begging money on the streets of stockholm for the spanish democrats. and that's why i want to say, first of all, "thank you". and since we are talking about the future of europe, i have to ask you something that is very important to us. because in the debates on the future of europe, it is often said - and there is a great deal of agreement in this house on this - that unanimity is a condition which prevents the european union from moving forward. for example, in fiscal policy; for example, in foreign policy. and many are asking, and many of us are asking, that unanimity be overcome by pass-through clauses or by other mechanisms. my question, mr prime minister, is whether you are in favour of the european union being able to move forward without this serious obstacle in its future.
mr president, i would like to thank prime minister löfven for his inspiring pro-european speech, including mention of abba and greta thunberg – swedish—made global leadership! prime minister, thank you for reminding us of the european dream, but it is about time that the european dream came to terms with european binding law because solidarity, orderly migration and the social pillar are not just dream works. they are binding european laws, yet violated by some notorious member states. article 50 is also binding law on the duty of the european union, the brexit thing. we heard a british mep here calling the attention of the house of commons to the clock which is ticking because it is about time that the house of commons delivered on the deplorable referendum that took place in 2016. but, for the european parliament, the consequence of it all is that we have to fight against populism by voting pro-european, as you have just advocated.
the next item is the report by mr jerzy buzek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2009/73/ec on common rules for the internal market in natural gas (com (2017) 0660 c80394/2017 2017/0294 (cod)) (a8-0143/2018).
mr president, the multinational gas companies cannot be above the law, nor can those from third countries. we are therefore glad that there is finally a directive, as the greens have asked, which limits the privileges of companies like russia's gazprom, ensuring that the nord stream 2 gas pipeline respects the rules of our internal market. but make no mistake, energy companies can't be above the climate and our health either. if we are to meet the paris agreement, dirty energy, like fossil gas, wherever it comes from, has no place in the european energy mix of the future. in the face of the climate emergency, i call on the commission and the member states not to waste any more time and resources on fossil and useless infrastructure like nord stream 2. now more than ever we are acting in favour of a wave of energy efficiency and renewable energy.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the house for this important debate. today’s debate has shown again that, as the european commission, we can count on this parliament as a strong ally when it comes to defending the principle of solidarity in our energy policy. this has been a major strength in our cooperation over this entire mandate. it has been our longstanding objective that when it comes to our external energy relations, the european union should speak with one voice. with the legislation we have passed during this mandate – the igas decision, the security of gas supply directive, and the amended gas directive discussed today – we now have the tools in place to do just that. as regards the gas directive, members raised a number of important issues. i would like to respond to the most important points raised. mr langen raised the issue of whether this legislation is discrimination against nord stream 2. i have to say that the revised legislation concerns all gas pipelines to and from third countries, and nord stream 2 is only the latest example of such pipelines which all operate under different legal and regulatory regimes. the recent legal and public debate concerning nord stream 2 only underscores the value of providing legal clarity on this issue across the european union. project promoters, including those from nord stream 2, should welcome the legal certainty the amended legislation will create. mr krasnodębski and ms wiśniewska raised the issue of the exemptions that can be given to nord stream 2 and who will decide on such exemptions. i would have to say that nord stream 2, like all new pipelines, could apply for an exemption under article 36 of the gas directive. the conditions for such exemptions are clearly set out in the directive. the national authority with jurisdiction over an exemption decision will be the authority of the member state where the first interconnection point is located. in the case of nord stream 2 it will be germany, but the draft decision by the national authority must be notified to the commission, which takes a binding decision. it may grant, reject or impose changes for the exemption decision by the national authorities. finally, mr rosati raised the issue of what the criteria are for granting an exemption. if nord stream 2 files a request for an exemption with the national regulator, it will be subject to strict conditions. as i said before, the final decision as to whether to grant an exemption stays with the commission. the exemption conditions include the following criteria. first, the risk level is such that the investment will not take place without an exemption. so if the investment cannot take place without exemptions it will go that way. second, the new infrastructure must enhance competition in the gas market, and also it has to enhance security of supply. these will be the criteria that will be applied objectively by the commission when agreeing whether to grant an exemption. i would like to conclude by thanking you again for your excellent cooperation. the new rules ensure that european union law will be applied to pipelines bringing gas to europe and that everyone interested in selling gas to europe must respect european energy law. i think that we have all made a major step forward in the creation of a truly integrated internal gas market, which is based on solidarity and trust, with full involvement and oversight of the european commission. i trust that in your vote tomorrow you will maintain that spirit and adopt this very important piece of legislation with a broad majority, as has been shown in the debate this afternoon.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 4 april 2019. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
in writing. despite the approval of new rules for the internal market in natural gas, to avoid monopolies and separate production from distribution, nothing changes with regard to the construction of the new nord stream 2 gas pipeline, as germany will continue to negotiate the details of this controversial infrastructure that will double the dependence on russian natural gas and help discourage investments in renewables. the eu has only made up the directive to legitimize germany in its negotiations with nord stream 2, an investment led by the former soviet state company now gazprom, and headed by former german chancellor schroeder, to build 1 200km of new pipeline across the baltic that will allow up to 110 billion cubic metres of natural gas into the eu. the diversification and security of supply provided by renewable energy is thus still being underestimated, and although ambitious emission reduction targets are agreed, it seems that the plan is to switch from coal-fired generation to gas-fired generation, i.e. one fossil fuel for another, which in addition in the case of natural gas is itself a greenhouse gas up to 86 times more potent than co2.
the next item is the report by mr gabriel mato, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european maritime and fisheries fund and repealing regulation (eu) no 508/2014 of the european parliament and of the council (com ((2018) 0390 c80270/2018 2018/0210 ((cod)) (a8-0176/2019).
the rapporteur. mr president, emff funding is a key element for sustainable fisheries and the conservation of marine biological resources, for food security through the supply of seafood, for the growth of a blue economy and for the sustainable development of healthy, safe and clean seas and oceans. i would like to emphasize the importance of the european maritime fisheries and aquaculture sector, which involves more than 85,000 vessels, employs more than 340,000 people and produces more than six million tonnes of high quality and nutritionally rich fish, as well as seafood from fisheries and aquaculture. the socioeconomic impact of this sector is enormous in many coastal regions that depend on it and have strong links with local culture and customs. however, there are many problems arising from the implementation of the common fisheries policy, such as the elimination of discards or achieving maximum sustainable yield, in addition to those resulting from brexit. it is therefore important to safeguard the budget necessary to deal with these problems and challenges affecting the maritime and fisheries sector, and to take account of the very small budgetary allocation of the european union to this policy. and brexit should not be used as an excuse to cut funding. i am therefore particularly pleased that parliament has asked for a 10% increase in the budget compared with the commission's proposal. throughout the process with the alternative rapporteurs, whose work i would like to publicly thank, we have worked hard to strike the right balance between the need to continue to support the fisheries and aquaculture and processing sectors, while preserving fisheries resources. all the commitments were finally adopted in the committee on fisheries, and i hope they will be maintained in the plenary. i would like to highlight a few of these commitments. we do not want the seas and their ecosystems to be degraded, but we do want men and women to be working and to have a decent wage and working conditions. we do not want fishing vessels to increase their capacity to catch fish, but we do want investments on board that increase the space of a fishing vessel to improve safety or the living and working conditions of the crew or the quality of the product. we do not want to replace engines to get more power, but we want to replace old, polluting engines with modern, green ones. we have agreed not to give public money to build new ships, but we would at least like to make it easier to access credit, insurance and financial instruments, especially for small businesses that lack the capital to make significant investments. we like to pay special attention to small-scale operators, to the artisans, and that is why we give them absolute priority. we do not want to support operators to simply comply with the law, but we want them to be granted public funding when the law creates unbearable costs for the operators. we do not want to give money to those who do not comply with the law, but we do not want to impose double sanctions and conditions that prevent them from applying for funding. we do not want to finance holidays for fishermen, but we want to compensate them for the loss of their income in the event of a temporary cessation of fishing. we do not want to give money to fishermen to stop fishing and use this money to buy another vessel, but we want to encourage fishermen to stop fishing where there is excess capacity. we do not want to give money to aquaculture and unsustainable processing, but it would be absurd not to give a boost to our sectors that provide high-quality fish and continue to import low-quality and unsustainable fish. finally, we do not want the outermost regions to receive operating aid without justification, but we want to help these regions, which are far away and have structural constraints, to use the money available and to adapt it to their real needs. i am glad that we have finally opted for flexibility and simplification of the current detailed and prescriptive eligibility rules, and that we have partly moved away from what some call 'brussels micro-management'.
member of the commission. – mr president, on behalf of my colleague, commissioner karmenu vella, i would like to warmly thank the rapporteur, mr gabriel mato, the shadow rapporteurs and all the members involved in this important file for all their valuable work. the european maritime and fisheries fund should continue to support the objectives of the common fisheries policy and the implementation of the union’s maritime policy after 2020. therefore, the commission has proposed a budget of eur 6.140 billion in current prices for the next programing period, which will allow us to tackle the challenges ahead and achieve our ambitious objectives. support for the achievement of the objectives of the cfp remains a core priority. such support should ensure that fishing activities are environmentally, economically and socially sustainable in the long term while they can contribute to the availability of food supplies. hence the need for strong conditionalities for secession measures and leaving fleet renewal to private investment. however, support from the eu budget is necessary to help achieve and maintain sustainable fishing, based on the maximum sustainable yield and to reduce the impact of fisheries on our maritime environment. this includes support for innovation and investment in low impact, climate resilient and low carbon fishing practices and techniques. the emff is also a tool to support fisheries control and scientific knowledge. the commission has proposed to ring fence amounts for these areas of support to ensure that sufficient funding is dedicated to this cornerstone of fisheries management. i would also like to insist on the importance of giving preferential treatment to small-scale fisheries. in particular, under the commission’s proposal, small-scale fishers would benefit from a 100% rate of public aid. food security and nutrition are also of the utmost importance. fisheries and agriculture both contribute to this objective. an important challenge is therefore to encourage the consumption of fish protein produced in the union, which meets high-quality standards and is available for consumers at affordable prices. therefore, the emff can support agriculture, including fresh water agriculture and the processing and marketing of fishery and agricultural products. the emff may also support the development of the sustainable blue economy by creating conditions for the development of the sector, removing bottlenecks to facilitate investment and market development. lastly, the emff will support the union’s international action to promote and improve the international governance of the oceans. this is essential to guarantee healthy, safe, secure, clean and sustainable management and specially manage seas and oceans worldwide, in line with the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, in particular sustainable development goal 14. our proposal for the emff simplifies the delivery of the fund, compared with the rather complex architecture in the current period. this simplified architecture will not pre-define eligible measures at union level, but will give flexibility to member states in designing these measures. our proposal for a new emff represents an evolution rather than a revolution of the current regulation, with an important element of simplification.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, commissioner, we are talking about one of the regulations that is under the umbrella of the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework and therefore also subject to the horizontal principles we adopt for negotiating long-term budgets. the european maritime, fisheries and aquaculture fund will be key to achieving much of the sustainable development goals. we are talking about food security, sustainable fisheries, protection of marine habitats and an economic activity that is fundamental to many of our regions. this economic activity must in turn ensure decent and quality jobs, ensure the training and access of young people to the fishing trade and support, recognise and make visible the work of the thousands of women who are linked to the fishing sector. and all of this can only be done with the right funding. we therefore not only reject the cut proposed by the european commission but also call for the amount to be increased to eur 6 867 million.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, commissioner, let me begin by saying that in this speech, which will probably be my last, it is an honour to be under your presidency, mr valcárcel, and you know that i say this with all my heart. first of all, and coming to the point, i would like to thank the rapporteur responsible for the subject, mr gabriel mato, for his collaboration in incorporating as far as possible the recommendations of the committee on the environment, and i would also like to thank all the alternative rapporteurs with whom we have worked on our opinion report. i would like to highlight, on the one hand, the progress that this new emff represents in terms of sustainability: economic, environmental and social sustainability, which we find reflected in the incorporation of co-management as a fundamental element. in my own country, catalonia, we already have several initiatives in this area, from palamós shrimp to roses cod, and we are already seeing the fruits of this co-management with an increase in the population of juveniles of these species and their reproductive capacity. we must make progress in this co-management, from brussels to the confraternities, to ensure the future of the sector.
thank you very much, mr gambus. this will also be my last speech in which i can thank you for your kindness. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, the european fisheries sector has already been told has many challenges: adapting to new rules such as the landing obligation a real revolution or the new technical measures regulation; also facing brexit and the need to achieve maximum sustainable yield by 2020 already. i would also like to stress the importance of ensuring the generational change, a major challenge for the sector. given these very special circumstances, we need a strong european maritime and fisheries fund, not a cut-off fund; a fund that is better equipped, more agile in its use, that is, less bureaucratic, less complex and restrictive. the use of the current fund, as we all know, is beset by many administrative obstacles and, in the end, implementation 'as we know it' is being rather poor. i would now like to thank mr gabriel mato, the rapporteur of this report, for his efficient and inclusive work, and also for his close and constant contact with the various sectors concerned. the rapporteur has been fully aware of the needs of the sector and the circumstances of the moment. not only the extractive sector, but also the processing and aquaculture industries. the rapporteur was also aware that the rigidity of the commission's original proposal, which relegated the processing sector and aquaculture to financing through financial instruments alone, had to be overcome. this could have been particularly problematic for small businesses. i therefore welcome the fact that the gabriel mato report includes the possibility of direct subsidies for these processing and aquaculture sectors, which are so important in my own country, galicia. i am also pleased that the report we are debating today addresses the key issue of generational change, by allocating funds to training, to improving working conditions and to improving the quality of life on board. the emff also supports the purchase of ships by new generations, who naturally aspire to have a more modern and safer fleet. i hope that some of the amendments which have been tabled against this important point will not be accepted. and that's the end of it. i would like to stress the importance of the opinion on the emff adopted a few months ago in the committee of the regions. the rapporteur was the president of my autonomous community, alberto núñez feijóo, and i think it was a very useful report for the work done in this parliament on the report by the rapporteur, mr mato. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the answer is 'blue card'. the rapporteur has already said that. we have a clear commitment - and i have said it myself - to the renewal of the fleet. the problem is that we have the capacity limit that the states have been allocated. these capacity ceilings cannot therefore be exceeded. but in all that concerns the improvement of habitability, the improvement of engines, for example, the improvement of safety circumstances, we are certainly on that line. i have already spoken of the need and the desirability, of course, of young people who want to join and buy new boats, to be given facilities also under the european maritime and fisheries fund, in order to ensure generational change.
mrs. rodust, i'm sorry to have interrupted you earlier. i appreciate your understanding. but the blue card was shown at the last second.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr gabriel mato, and the alternative rapporteurs for their work on what i consider to be a good proposal for the next fisheries fund. the first thing i want to say is that i am glad to hear from all of us that we are demanding a fairer budget. so let there be no cuts in this budget, which is the smallest european fund. and it's supposed to cut. so, we refuse to cut. i would also like to say that it is very important, above all, to resolve some issues. i was asking a member of the house earlier not to waste public money. the current emff will not be wasted here. you know why? because it can't be used. because the current emff is useless. and so we need to make big changes. and that proposal brings some of them, very important and interesting. so money will be put back into this fund. and they'll say they haven't been able to spend it. we must put in place useful instruments and we must be committed to innovation, fish farmers' organisations, groups and, of course, aquaculture. i would like to conclude by saying that, in addition to the name, we have given it support which is not financial resources but money, as is the case with the rest of the fishing industry.
mr president, i would like to thank mr gabriel mato and the other rapporteurs for the great work they have done. and i want to say that the main objective of this fund is to promote the development of the blue economy, by promoting sustainable practices, diversifying sources of income that will lead to a harmonious and prosperous development of coastal communities, and strengthening sustainable management and governance in the oceans. i think that a good step in that direction is to have enough budgets to prioritise fleet activities with artisanal practices, to support labelling that informs consumers of the sustainable origin of catches or to support professionals who suffer unforeseen stoppages of activity or from stock recovery measures. i also think it is essential to take account of the special situation of the sector working in the outermost regions such as the canary islands and to strengthen the rights and position of women seafarers. finally, i support the renewal of the fleet, provided that the conditions are met: no increase in fishing capacity, facilitation of generational change and decarbonisation. more modern ships, less polluting, safer and more comfortable for their crews and equipped with innovations that help to minimise discards, make the activity more sustainable and profitable and controllable. these principles also support a coastal industry, shipbuilding.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their interventions. i have taken due note of the various points raised during this debate which will be shared, of course, with my dear colleague commissioner vella. the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) should be a tool for implementing our policy commitments under the common fisheries policy and maritime policy. therefore, public support needs to be targeted at the challenges of these policies, in particular delivering healthy fish stocks and reducing fish waste through the implementation of the landing obligation and key topics for which emff investments are available. i would like to insist on the very serious risk of introducing support for vessel construction and capacity—enhancing investments. this would be detrimental in terms of fisheries conservation and our maximum sustainable yield target. this would not only contradict the cfp, but also our international commitments under the sustainable development agenda under the wto. it would crowd out investment into more important areas such as improvements to selectivity. it is therefore important to spend taxpayers’ money in line with our policy objectives and commitments. as commissioner for transport i can assure you that in the maritime sector we will take all the necessary steps to support sustainable development in the future as well.
the rapporteur. mr president, i think the commission is a little inconsistent when it urges us to meet the objectives and to face the new challenges we have and yet it proposes a budget reduction. i was talking about evolution and not revolution, but of course there can be no evolution without revenue and without budgets. i must also say that i am a little saddened to see the amendments which have been legitimately tabled by some political groups. during the negotiations we are all capable of making concessions, of abandoning some of our claims in order to reach an agreement. the compromise that emerged was approved by a very large majority. i do not think it is fair that, once these commitments have been adopted, we should retain amendments in the house which go against the commitments themselves. in any case, i repeat, it is legitimate. and here we have talked about keeping our feet on the ground. and i say yes, i wish we had always had our feet on the ground. we also have to take decisions such as the obligation to land on dates that were absolutely impossible and that are causing us so many problems. and we also have to have our feet on the ground when we are considering increasing a few percent, up to 25 percent or even 30 percent in some cases, issues like control or issues that are so ethereal that what they do is harm the fishermen themselves. i think that when the proposal was setting a minimum and a maximum, i was already perfectly in control of that. in any case, i want to answer in general. many of those who have spoken are no longer here, but mr hoc said that we are attacking small-scale fishing. i'm not at all. quite the opposite. i think that when he spoke of twenty-four metres and some other matters, he did not read the final text. the support for coastal fishing is a clear commitment. and, in fact, i was in poland last week, on friday, and the fishermen understood perfectly well what we had done. and it's true when they say there are many spanish speaking. honestly, it makes sense. why would you do that? because, as far as fishing is concerned, spain is unlike any other country in europe. mrs ni riada, we are going to support amendment no 289. and it is true that bureaucracy must be eliminated, because you cannot continue to use funds when there are none. there are always plenty of opportunities to use funds. that's all i know. i'm finished. aquaculture, the whole bet. and as far as the ors are concerned, the question of aid and the fund is a matter of survival.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would first of all like to express my gratitude to all those who have helped us to finally reach agreement on the tripartite dialogue for this management plan for demersal in the western mediterranean. we are talking about the fourth management plan we are discussing for fisheries which are important in the european union environment and which is the first in the mediterranean. i would like to thank the alternative rapporteurs, all the technical staff and the staff of the fisheries secretariat for the work they have done, and of course the european commission, whose staff have also helped us a great deal to understand many parameters on many issues which are sometimes too technical and which were incomprehensible to us. i would like to thank you, of course, and also the romanian presidency, which has done an outstanding job during its presidency. and finally, we've got this deal. i sincerely believe that this agreement which we are bringing here today for debate and tomorrow for vote is the best possible agreement. is it the one that we would all and each of us particularly like? probably not, but if that were the case, it wouldn't be a deal. and, as it is an agreement of many parties and many interests, i think it is a great agreement. fish and shellfish stocks, the demersal species that are regulated and managed in mediterranean trawling, have been 'some more than others, it must be said' overexploited. this multiannual plan aims to reverse this trend and ensure that, in the long term, these species are managed in a more environmentally, socially and economically sustainable way. the plan concerns three countries - spain, france and italy - and a fleet of more than ten thousand vessels. some are arguing that it is a plan in which the sustainability goals have not all been achieved. others say it's too environmentally friendly. i think not: if some say we are on one side, and others on the other, in the end the middle point is the agreement. i would like to highlight a few points. for the first time, a multiannual plan on a mediterranean scale. it's an important fact. and i think it will serve for the next agreements and will set precedents for the same. we have adopted such important issues - which i like to highlight - as co-management for the first time in a management plan. member states may promote such participatory management at local level. the seals, an important and relevant issue also for protecting juvenile breeding areas and sensitive habitats up to a depth of 100 metres or six nautical miles from the coast when a shelf is too large, for three months a year, which will be for each country to decide. we have also determined that the maximum sustainable yield - which is a target we all have to meet, and which the cfp obliges us to achieve by 2020 - is not possible in this plan and therefore we will make every effort to achieve it by 2025. it has also been used to open up the limitation we had on the emff on permanent cessation. i would like to conclude my first speech by saying that, as this is an agreement and as a great effort is important, i ask everyone to give a great message with a great approval by a majority tomorrow.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to warmly thank the rapporteur, ms aguilera garcía, and all the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent work and all their efforts to conclude this important file in a successful and timely manner. the agreement reached between both co—legislators on 4 february is a historic achievement for the mediterranean. it is the first eu multiannual management plan in the region. based on the common fisheries policy, this plan provides a balance between environmental and socioeconomic aspects. it will introduce a limitation on fishing time per day and provide for a progressive reduction of up to 40% during the first five years. this should bring us closer to sustainable fishing by 2025, from which point in time fishing limits will have to fully respect maximum sustainable yield. for the first time, control measures for the fishing effort regime will fully apply as from next year, 2020. with this new plan, closure areas will also get an even more prominent role in the mediterranean sea. from the entry into force, we will have a three—month closure for all trawl vessels and more closures are to follow in the coming years. this will ensure protection of nursery and spawning grounds for demersal stocks such as hake. another step forward is the integration of recreational fisheries and co—management into the plan, the latter being very popular for managing fisheries at the local level in the mediterranean. when i look back to 2016, when we embarked on the path towards sustainable fisheries in the mediterranean with our medfish4ever declaration in catania, i realise the long road travelled to get the multiannual plan adopted and the tangible increase of ownership and awareness generated. i’m very grateful to see such great progress and that the final result, the multiannual plan, forms a comprehensive package of measures that will contribute to restoring demersal stock and ensuring that fishers have the necessary tools to address the transition towards better profitability, as in other sea basins. a new era in the western mediterranean sea will start with this plan, one in which concrete measures will be progressively implemented to reduce fishing mortality until we reach sustainable limits. i am confident that this new plan is the right way to go. it will ensure that fisheries have a prosperous future in this sea and that fishermen and fisherwomen will be the first ones to benefit from that. the plan serves as an important testimony of the possibility to progress in the mediterranean when there is a political will to do so. it should therefore pave the way for other ambitious plans to advance from both the side of the eu and multilaterally in the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. during the trilogue, the commission committed to making three statements relating to the best available scientific advice, the inclusion of depth intervals as a criteria for the segmentation of the fishing effort, and regional cooperation. these statements are part of the final compromise and the commission will submit these statements for the minutes.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, this agreement is presented by some as a decisive step towards sustainability in the mediterranean sea, where most fish stocks are apparently overexploited. but, once again, the pressure from various actors, the usual suspects, led to an agreement where the main and almost sole focus is environmental sustainability. i can only share the concerns of the fishermen that drastic cuts in fishing effort - a 40% reduction over the next five years - will have irreparable consequences. because in the last ten years, in my country, spain, the number of trawlers has already fallen from 900 to 600. i'm not sure other countries have made the same effort. but this isn't the worst part. the worst thing is that the proposed measures, and i am referring here mainly to the ban on trawling, have no scientific basis. they are arbitrary and rigid. direct bans are never constructive. they are simplistic, one-dimensional, disproportionate and unfair. a sudden and arbitrary provision of trawl fishing is a very bad precedent, which could lead to absurd restrictions in the future. the proof is that until now there was a prohibition on fishing within a fifty-meter isobara three miles from the coast. now the trawlers will have to leave the area where they have always fished and move further away for three months, a hundred metres from the isobara or six miles from the coast. this means in practice a total ban on trawling in most of the mediterranean, as this fleet operates mainly on the continental shelf, which mostly coincides with the proposed depth limit. in addition, the continental shelf ends abruptly in many areas, reaching a great depth of a few miles, making it impossible for trawlers to fish beyond that area. it goes without saying that bottom trawlers are the main suppliers of food to mediterranean ports, auctions and ancillary industries. so if trawlers have to stop fishing for three months every year, these sectors will also be deeply affected. crawling, like any other art, should not be demonized. we must avoid conflicts between different fishermen, between small and large-scale fishermen. all our fishermen contribute to the supply of nutritious fish and that is why our position will be to vote 'no' in the vote tomorrow.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs clara aguilera, for the work she has done, and that is why i will defend the vote in favour of this multiannual plan for the management of mediterranean fisheries. it is not mine, it is not the one i would like, it is not the one i proposed or advocated, but it is the only possible response to end a completely ineffective system of control, state by state. the most authoritative scientific reports show that it has caused 80% of stocks in these waters to be overfished and at high risk of collapse. a bad politician is one who is afraid to tell people the truth even when there are decisions that cannot be postponed, and that temptation is countered with constructive realism. we need to reduce catches, but we have programmes to deal with the social impact of this measure. we need to strengthen co-management by working with those affected to diversify the income of coastal communities, to improve their position in the value chain of the fishing industry and it is mandatory to do so when there are possibilities to recover stocks and ensure activity for the future. for those who would like more restrictions, like myself, i would inform you that there is no chance of a more ambitious proposal succeeding. however, there are many who would reject this agreement, which improves on what we have today because it provides us with a multiannual framework which at least obliges the council every year to approve reductions in fishing effort in accordance with scientific reports and because it incorporates clear and very necessary restrictions on the activity of trawlers in specific areas and periods. our first obligation is to approve this improvement and to tighten control so that the states comply with its terms. finally, a message to those who are going to reject this report because they think it can go on as before. the bread that is being sold to very specific sectors as an achievement today, just before the european elections, i sincerely believe is the hunger of tomorrow: an irreversible environmental and social catastrophe. the threat is not just to the fishing industry, but to those who will be responsible in the future.
mr president, this fisheries plan for the western mediterranean is a step forward in reducing the over-exploitation of this sea. the recovery of fish stocks within a realistic timeframe can and should be compatible with the continuation of well-managed fishing. this requires a rational effort management regime, including spatial management measures, but also requires a comprehensive strategy to compensate fishermen economically for the necessary reduction in fishing effort, including marketing strategies, diversification of activities, cost reductions, etc. delaying the approval of the plan would only contribute to further deterioration of fish stocks and to stricter measures in the near future. finally, i consider it very important to defend co-management as a useful instrument for decision-making and implementation, in which all the actors involved participate and take responsibility for sustainable fisheries management. in catalonia we have very interesting experiences in this respect.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner bulc, on behalf of the commission and commissioner vella, who told me today that he could not be with us. in addition to the thanks, i would like to make a few clarifications. this management plan, i insist, is not what i would have done if it had been decided by me alone, or by any of us here. but it certainly has resulted in a great deal. a management plan based on fishing effort, which does not envisage the introduction of the tac and quota system but other elements such as fishing effort, the ban or the inclusion, for the first time in a regulation, of co-management. i would like to congratulate you, mr solé, because in your autonomous community, in catalonia, there are great experiences in co-management which will be very useful for us to develop in the rest of europe. so i think it's the best possible deal. i was very surprised by my epp group alternative rapporteur, mr iturgaiz, when i saw his speech. because the epp group has always supported this agreement to the end. so when i heard you here today it caused me a lot of surprise, but, anyway. it has been transformed, because all the votes so far have been cast for the epp group and its rapporteur, mr iturgaiz, to whom, in any case - to him and his team - i thank for their work, even if he wants to throw it overboard. i would like to thank the other political groups for their efforts. it is not easy for any of us, and i know that everyone has made a great effort, together with the commission. let us look at what is useful for the future and not look at short-term political strategy or electoral strategy.
mr president, commissioner jourová, these rules of procedure are reasonable. this initiative makes sense. the work that has been carried out in this european parliament to achieve a result is full of meaning. it makes sense to provide identification through a european document for at least 11 million european citizens residing in a country other than the country in which they were born, or for 1 billion foreign citizens entering the european union and its area of free movement through its external borders. it makes sense to move towards the best identification, with all the guarantees, with all the instruments available through the new biometric identification techniques and the transmission of this information, in a reasonable timeframe, in order to prevent serious transnational crime and the threats to european citizens and the european union as a whole. and so i think that the balance that has been achieved at the end of the road deserves to be greeted with a vote in favour.
mr president, mr vice-president, i welcome the commission communication on relations between the european union and china. not so the decaffeinated conclusions of the council. because the european union needs to increase its global influence and that, without a doubt, requires our determination and unity of action. china is exercising its unfair competition because it is allowed and has been allowed to do so. we are strategic partners, but we are also competitors. and we're competing on the same international board with different rules. the european union is not protectionist, but it cannot be naive either. our trade and investment relations must be based on reciprocity and we must protect our economy from the distortions caused by china's industrial policy and the restrictions it imposes on our european companies. the new investment control regulation must be implemented diligently and the new international public procurement instrument must be brought into force as soon as possible. but we must also deepen our relations with china, based on dialogue and mutual trust, and work together to combat climate change, defend multilateralism and reform the wto.
mr president, i am very grateful to you for your generosity in giving me the opportunity to apologise to the house and, above all, to the commissioner and to mrs aiuto, the rapporteur, for not being able to take part. unfortunately, i had the idea - as i had been told - that the debate would start at 11 o'clock. i thought i was on time, and i'm late. i wanted to apologize, particularly because it was a very important issue, which parliament absolutely supports, in relation to improving the safety of road infrastructure. so i am very sorry and i just wanted to be able to apologise to the commissioner, this house and the rapporteur. i'm sorry about that. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
mr president, the drug of working class neighbourhoods: that is what we can call the increase in gambling houses we see in our cities, as i already denounced in my question to the european commission last january. increased gambling addiction and the risk of compulsive gambling, especially among young people, as they are the most vulnerable group, are some of the damages of gambling houses in our society. let us not forget that 30 percent of boys and girls between the ages of 14 and 17 admit to gambling at some point. these dangers mean that my party is calling for the limitation of their opening to be regulated at european level and for activities to be developed to inform and raise awareness of their risks. what does the commission intend to do to ensure that member states implement preventive and information measures?
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, mr vice-president, i want to congratulate all the rapporteurs and the alternative rapporteurs, in particular those from the employment committee, where i also contributed to this pepp. i would like to say that this is a complex and technical subject which we are dealing with here, and that it can even be said - as it turns out - that the ecb's monetary policy is wrong. we don't have to go that far. this has the ambition that it has. the ambition of the commission - as the chairman of the employment working party has said from day one - is to help, facilitate and increase the possibilities of a decent pension for people who have not been able to be covered, for historical reasons, reasonably, in the course of their lives, by the public pension systems of their country or who have too low pensions, and so on. and so it is a question of europe's willingness to better protect our elderly socially. we're discussing whether the capital guarantee is sufficient or not. all right, let's hope we get better at this. is the presence of europe sufficient with eiopa? we would have liked something better, but it is certainly a socially positive instrument. and no jokes about this attacking the funds or the public pensions. that is a useless and demagogic alarm.
madam president, under the myth that you have created yourself of the unsustainability of public pensions, you are promoting a product that opens up a new front for speculative business in europe. a financial product which can never constitute a guarantee for citizens and which only benefits the richest and the banking business through tax advantages, channelling the small savings of european workers into financial markets. you just want to expand the single market of capital with giant pension funds capable of intervening in the global financial system the duty of the european union and the states should be to protect citizens, and you are breaking that principle by promoting private high-risk systems that do not even have a guarantee of capital in real terms. do you really want to protect the citizenry? the only way forward is to strengthen public pension systems, which are the biggest and only mechanism to fight poverty.
madam president, pensioners are tired of hearing the european institutions say that public pension systems are not sustainable. we are talking about people who have worked all their lives to be able to have a dignified retirement, and as a society we are obliged to guarantee their pensions. it's not a question of profits, it's a question of rights. ladies and gentlemen, pensioners do not need their pensions to be gambled with or new financial products to be invented which only allow them to do business with their savings. what they need is a firm commitment from the european union to guarantee public pension systems and to stop promoting their privatisation. from here, all our support to so many pensioners in struggle who are working, who are demonstrating, who are defending the rights of everyone. not your rights, but everyone's rights and everyone's rights. we defend public pensions.
madam president, this week we have received more than 20 000 e-mails from pensioners, particularly from the spanish state, asking us to vote against this product. of course, you will have my vote against it and that of the organization i represent here. decent pensions, because for a person who has a pension of four hundred euros - as is often the case in my country - and six hundred, and seven hundred - that is already considered high - it will be very difficult to access this product, commissioner. it's going to be very difficult. and, moreover, the european parliament has no powers in tax matters, so that this product is again a trap. because, after having suffered numerous cuts as a result of the imposition of the troika decision and, moreover, as a result of the successive reforms we have had in the field of pensions - particularly those promoted by the popular party in spain - our pensioners are facing a reduction in their rights and we do not know whether future generations will have pensions. this product will therefore end up benefiting the highest income groups and will mean a huge loss of public revenue which could be used for other social policies, such as job creation, aid to the most disadvantaged and also for dependency. that is why i voted against and supported the pensioners.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this pan-european product of individual pensions seems to me to be an insult to the working class, an insult to young people with precarious jobs, an insult to women, an insult to so many people who are out of work. i believe that to really guarantee public pension systems and decent pensions we have to vote 'no' to this pan-european product of individual pensions and get to work on measures and a regulation that really helps the states to strengthen these public pension systems and to have decent pensions. our future - that we have a decent life in old age - cannot depend on our ability to save. it is also unethical to use public money to support these individual pension products with tax advantages. it's transferring public money to the coffers of the business that's going to sell these products.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, maternity and paternity leave of equal duration, non-transferable and paid at 100% of salary. this is our position, and the interim agreement is far from it and clearly insufficient for us. we have tabled amendments in various directions. on the one hand, non-transferability is an indispensable condition for equality in care and in the labour market. the high remuneration of 100% or, where appropriate, 80% is indispensable to sustain life, so that there is no impoverishment of the parents, the father or the mother. the two weeks of paternity leave should be mandatory, because someone has to take care of the mother as well. this directive sets minimum standards and we believe that this is a positive thing: minimum standards for the whole of europe, which improve the lives of some citizens. however, it had the opportunity to go much further and be a step forward in building a social europe that strives for equality. i hope, however, that this will be the case in the next parliament. let's review it and take firm steps.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, the text leaves us with a bittersweet feeling. we're going to be a long way from where we should be, which are equal, non-transferable, 100% paid leave. however, there will be some elements introduced that will have a real effect on the lives of many people. in five countries, paternity leave will be introduced for the first time, and in eight countries it will be longer than it is today. and we're also going to introduce that, of the four months of parental leave, two months are going to be non-transferable and paid from now on. so there are small steps forward, even though, of course, for example, the payment of parental leave for paternity will certainly be well below 80%, which would be the minimum recommended, and parental leave, unfortunately, for example, has no minimum payment reference. i think, therefore, that we have come a little short. and what i do want to say today is that i want to thank the rapporteur, the alternative rapporteurs and the commission for having set the ambition that the council has not set. and i want to say to the council that whenever we adopt a measure in the european social pillar we cannot constantly be haggling about what it will cost in each country. we need ambition for the future, and we will work towards that in the next mandate. to improve these provisions.
madam president, madam commissioner, i congratulate all the alternative rapporteurs and, in particular, my friend mr casa as rapporteur, who has drawn up a text which is undoubtedly of great importance for the citizens of europe and for the workers of europe. the balance between work and family life is a considerable challenge for many workers, but this text is clearly a step and not a petit pas. it is an important step forward in promoting equality between men and women in the society we want, reducing the gender gap and promoting greater balance between personal and work life. that said, i want to stress how this fits into the development of the european pillar of social rights, and i am very pleased to participate and congratulate the commissioner on all those directives which are underpinning basic minimum rights for the cohesion and society of european citizens. i would like to take up what mr urtasun said at the end. of course, the member states will have to make progress, but the challenge for the next mandate is undoubtedly to establish the need for european financial solidarity in the social field.
mr president, as commissioner thyssen has said, in europe there is a 16% pay gap between men and women and a 37% pension gap. women continue to be discriminated against in the workplace and spend three times as much time as men on unpaid care work. with the conciliation directive we are taking a step forward towards this social europe of which we talk so much but which we do so little about. because this directive should allow for a more equitable distribution of care tasks between men and women and, therefore, a step forward in effective equality. and also because it recognises new rights, such as the right to request flexible working conditions for childcare. the result is far from what we wanted to achieve. it's a breakthrough, though. and it's a breakthrough that we share.
mr president, we must support carers and families. this is also social europe, which means guaranteeing equality. so the directive is a step forward. thank you, commissioner, for giving the member states the opportunity to improve. balancing family and work life is not always easy for women. they're almost always the ones who stay home, who leave work, and that's not fair. you know, commissioner, that in my country, which is suffering from a great deal of ageing, it is the grandparents who look after the grandchildren. we must accompany families with children, single-parent families, accompany maternity and paternity leave, accompany carers of dependants and of the sick. i know it! my mother has alzheimer's, and it's changed our lives, as it has so many families in my country and all over europe. caregivers and caregivers and families need our support.
mr president, first of all, i will not allow the spanish government to be insulted, because that is an insult to the feelings of the great majority of men and women in my country. secondly, we cannot accept democratic procedures only when the result is in our favour. there has been a process of agreement with the council here - as there is in many other matters - where the council has stated its position, parliament the other, and negotiations have taken place. the decision has been made and all the procedures have been carried out in accordance with the law. as stated, the change of rapporteur was ratified by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and therefore this decision must be accepted. and finally, we cannot expect those who are leaving to decide on the interests of those who remain. the agreement provides for a definition which is in accordance with international law. and let's not forget that. what we are voting on here today is not the result of a decision by the spanish government. we are voting here today that if the united kingdom leaves the european union on 12 april, we must have the visa waiver issue resolved. remember, we voted the... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, what we are voting on here today is the visa waiver for millions of european citizens in the event of a hard brexit next week. to postpone this vote or to amend the report is to condemn millions of europeans to having to apply for a visa to travel to the united kingdom or from the united kingdom to the european union. so it is not the place of this parliament to harm millions of european citizens for the private interests of the british government by postponing the vote or accepting amendments. i'm sorry about that. the british have left the european union. our duty is to defend the citizens of the european union, and that is what i ask this house to do.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, pursuant to rule 59, i would like the amendments to be voted on first. we believe that it is essential for this house to give its opinion on two fundamental aspects of our amendments. one is the non-transferability of leave, which we understand is fundamental to ensuring that care is provided equally and that women have the same guarantee of access to the labour market. and the other issue is remuneration, which we understand is also fundamental if people who have children - fathers, mothers and carers - are not to suffer impoverishment.
mr president, we have voted no to the pan-european product for individual pensions. and you, gentlemen of the pnv, the people's party and citizens, you voted yes. yes to the pensions of the rich, because those will be their pensions. and while you're fattening up your pension plans, you're slimming down the rest of the people's. they are slimming down the public pensions that sustain the lives of so many people and the economies of so many families. you're trying to give tax breaks to private pensions, which will help the weaker pay the pensions of the powerful. they want to give them intra-european mobility to facilitate tax evasion. and for those of you who haven't had the opportunity to have a private pension plan, well, give it to them, basically. and that is that, for you, the cuts and austerity are not a consequence of the ageing population or the crisis. for you, cuts and austerity are a tool to impose your neoliberal, individualist, anti-social and unjust model. state pensions are not for sale. they're defending themselves.
the truth is not a crime and those who tell it must be protected. julian assange has uncovered the atrocities committed by the united states in afghanistan, iraq and guantanamo bay. as citizens, we deserve to know that reality. we must therefore ensure that he is not extradited to the united states, where he will probably be tortured. the united nations itself has indicated that extradition would endanger his physical integrity and that he could be exposed to serious human rights violations. we therefore believe that the european union must take a stand on the side of democracy, transparency and the rule of law. we ask that this item be placed on the agenda and we would like to put it to a roll-call vote. the integrity and freedom of julian assange must be respected.
mr president, as a lawyer i presented the first case that was admitted in europe against what the barbarities and torture in guantanamo meant: i know what i am talking about. but it is one thing to have a resolution that has a general context - that is to defend the people who report and therefore protect them - and it is quite another to turn the particular case, however important it may be, into a general case. so, from the legitimacy that the guantanamo case gives me, i am against this proposal and in favour of defending the people who denounce 'in general', which is what our resolution is about.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. madam president, i was responsible for drawing up the opinion of the libe committee. although it was only an opinion, the alternative rapporteurs and i wanted to do a comprehensive job, to deal with the whole legislative proposal and go beyond what the european commission presented in april last year. the juri committee helped us to propose parliament's position in accordance with what society needs and demands. we have succeeded in tackling the fragmentation of whistleblower protection in the european union, increasing legal certainty. today whistleblowers are still silenced and often do not dare to communicate for fear of reprisals, but with this directive we hope to have started to get it right so that they are protected with safe channels of reporting. we also protect sources of investigative journalism. we protect the civic duty to report, so it's not an act of heroism. it adds an extra layer of safeguarding the public interest, because the work of the pana commission of inquiry in this parliament would not have been possible without the panama papers. and, fortunately, john doe managed to save his anonymity. they are the guts of the great tax evasion, the great crimes that weaken our democracy and public coffers. that is why our aim is to protect the common good, and with this directive we all win. i hope we got it right!
the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity. madam president, i really believe that today we are taking a big step towards transparency, in defence of the public interest and also of the law of the union. i would add that we are also taking a big step towards ethics: ethics in business, ethics in public activity. i would like to congratulate virginie rozière because she has done a great job; i would also like to congratulate the commissioner. i would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the complainants are not criminals; i believe they are rather model citizens. and unfortunately, we have many, many examples of people who have suffered brutal repression, lost their jobs, lost their careers, been persecuted to the point of economic ruin and even been prosecuted under the criminal law of some countries. and this can't be, this had to end. and fortunately this directive - which is a good one, which i think is very comprehensive, as has been said, which favours, as has been shown, the opinion of all the political groups - is a great step forward, and i only hope that the governments will transpose the directive well and quickly.
madam president, commissioner jourová, i am speaking on behalf of the socialist group in this debate on the rule of law in romania. and i am not doing so in romanian, hungarian or polish, respected official languages of the union which have been very much present in this debate, for a clear reason. the debate on the fight against corruption, the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights is often subverted into a debate of cross-accusation between those countries which have been subject to article 7 for breach of the principles enshrined in article 2 of the treaty on european union and another country in which there has not been a set of constitutional reforms directly aggressive against those principles. but the bottom line is that the work is still to be done. a reliable, robust mechanism for verifying compliance with the principles enshrined in article 2 of the treaty on european union. rule of law, fundamental rights, democratic quality and also the fight against corruption. and that mechanism, mrs jourová, is required of the commission, in accordance with the resolutions we have adopted in this european parliament. we demand that the commission should do so at the next inauguration of the european parliament, after the elections on 26 may.
madam president, my first thoughts are with the french men and women, the parisians, faced with this terrible fire that is occurring tonight in notre dame. this is terrible news, it is a dark day for european culture and i would simply like to express my solidarity with the firefighters and services who are doing their utmost to try to extinguish this fire as quickly as possible. i would just like to take the few seconds i have left to thank mr hökmark for the excellent work we have done together. i think that we have important levels for the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities (mrel) and total loss absorbing capacity (tlac) that will avoid us having to use taxpayers' money again in the next crisis. i think we have made progress and i would particularly like to thank him for accepting our proposals on consumer protection, and avoiding having small savers trapped in a bail-in process as we have had in the past. i think we have successfully achieved that in the text and i would like to thank him for that.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are not affected by the fires in the alps. in any case, we have this debate, this last debate on the regulation to create a public debt securitisation before the vote tomorrow, on a proposal for a regulation that the commission has put forward for some time now and that has been really difficult. i would like to thank, first of all, the support and the closeness and the spirit of collaboration of all the rapporteurs from the various groups, because, as i said, it has not been easy to move this proposal for a regulation until we have reached an agreement, which was validated in our committee a few weeks ago and which i hope will have the broad support of this house tomorrow. we were now discussing the banking package, which we will also be voting on tomorrow, and the need to have a safer banking system which avoids bailouts or fiscal crises in the future. but what we are going to debate now, and we will vote tomorrow, too, is how to avoid fiscal crises like the ones we experienced in 2010 and 2012, because those bailouts generated public deficits and those public deficits made it difficult for many states to place public debt, some of which ended up having to request a bailout from the european institutions. it is important to have a safe banking sector, but it is also very important not only to have safe national accounts but also to have instruments that allow us to fight and combat those public debt liquidity crises that we suffered in 2010 and 2012. and i think that the commission proposal which we discussed in this parliament was a well-targeted proposal, and i also think that this parliament has managed to improve it. it has succeeded in giving the european authorities greater powers to supervise these public debt securitisations, we have given esma greater powers, greater capacity to supervise this type of product and, moreover, i believe that we have improved the quality of this senior tranche which is destined to become, at least in the short term, a safe, risk-free asset, a safe european asset which in turn will allow banks to diversify their balance sheets. as i said, the negotiations have been difficult in recent months, but we have reached a very broad agreement in this parliament, aimed at completing the reform of the euro area in the face of the need to have instruments that make it difficult, even impossible, to live through crises such as those we experienced in 2010 and 2012. it is important to have a safe banking sector, as we have just discussed, but it is also very important to have instruments to enable states to cope with future crises without having to embark on pro-cyclical adjustment programmes which end up worsening the economic circumstances of europe. and so it is a step forward, it is a decisive step, but we still have a lot to do. we have a long way to go to achieve a stable euro area with a future and the capacity to withstand future crises.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, mr vice-president, my friend mr jonas and other colleagues, i cannot begin this short speech without saying that today a part of the soul of europe has been destroyed. i do not wish to express my condolences to my french friends, but to all europeans. and that gives me the opportunity to say that we have built other things with great effort, such as notre-dame, the european union and the euro, and that they are also extremely fragile; and that we have still lost almost an entire mandate without having properly supported the euro. that is why we welcome the commission's attempt and the great work that jonas and the alternative rapporteurs have done to ensure that, in the view of the alde group, we have a european asset that is linked, tied, and supports the single currency, the euro. they talk about mutualisation, they talk about... that's really boycotting. there is no mutualization, and i'm sorry, but there is no mutualization. and there's talk that the market won't want it... well, let's see this attempt work, let's see what the market says. it is a european product that supports the single european currency, which means diversification of assets, which means possible relief for countries strangled by debt - sovereign debt - which has a subsequent effect on the possibility of improving social policies, for example. it is an attempt, despite all the obstacles, to start creating a better and stronger euro with a financial backing asset, which we have managed not to set aside, not to marginalise any state in the eurogroup - none! - because otherwise it would have failed in its objective. that the franco-german axis doesn't like it? well, they better come up with something better. and if not, please, keep your head up, because we have produced something that can proudly claim the euro.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, i would like to begin by thanking and congratulating mr fernández. it wasn't easy to pull this off, you have to admit. and i think he did a good job. my group obviously does not think that this is the solution to the structural problems of the euro. btds are not a substitute for eurobonds and we still need a tax capacity worthy of the name, so this is not going to get us out of the design deficiencies. now, despite this, i would like to thank mr fernandez for accepting some of the proposals we made to him in relation to the btds which we thought were important. for example, to provide esma with the capacity to clearly monitor the liquidity of sovereign debt markets so that the creation of btds cannot have negative effects, so that esma can control that. and secondly, also, that the european systemic risk board can play an important role in the macro-prudential control of this new market we are going to create. i would therefore like to thank mr fernandez once again for his work and the good work he has done in this negotiation.
the rapporteur. madam president, good night again. i would simply like to take this two minutes to sincerely thank all the rapporteurs for their work on this regulation - which, as we said, we started the negotiation with several rejection amendments and in a situation we could say that complex. but the truth is that in recent months all the groups have shown a clear desire to reach an agreement and i believe we have succeeded. i would also like to thank my colleague, mr jakob von weizsäcker, who has been the rapporteur for a good part of the last year and without whom and without his work and without the development of these negotiations - until i took on this responsibility - we would not have been able to get here. i think parliament dismisses a legislature with a great deal of work. i think that the debates today and the votes tomorrow, with all those regulations and directives in the committee on economic affairs, show that parliament is committed to the advancement of the euro area. and i think it is very important that this vote on a regulation which takes a further step in the construction of this monetary union, of this stable euro area - which obviously we are not able to make all the progress we should, but we are still moving forward - i think, as i say, that parliament is giving a lesson in europeanist commitment to work, commitment. and let us hope that in the next parliament the council will have made progress, among other things, on this regulation, because parliament is already prepared to start negotiations and we hope that the council will be able to reach some agreement in the coming months.
madam president, commissioner, in this last plenary session of the 2014-2019 legislature we are debating brexit once again. another extension in extremis, agonizing. it is essential to criticise the house of commons, which has been unable to adopt a recognisable position. the same applies to the unity of action shown by the european union in giving priority to protecting the rights of citizens: the british in the european union and the europeans in the united kingdom. this is particularly noticeable in some regions with strong economic and trade links with the united kingdom, such as the canary islands. five million british visitors a year who were waiting for the visa waiver that we have managed to get through in this european parliament. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and transactions in sensitive products, such as bananas or tomatoes, that required legal certainty. but i hope that the debate will make it clear at once that, if there is an extension, we have the right to ask a question and to get an answer: an extension for what?
mr president, at the end of my term of office, i would like to speak in dutch or flemish in my last speech. i am catalan and the spanish government does not protect the free use of my language. but belgium has three languages: french and german - i've been speaking these languages since i was a child - and flemish, which i've tried to learn a little bit in my time here. i thank my teacher, sandra peeters, for the tremendous patience and skill she has used to help me progress. this is my tribute to european pluralism, in the hope that catalan will soon become an official language. i thank you all, including you, madam president.
madam president, one of the subjects of this european legislature, which we are concluding this week, has been catalonia. many of you have discovered a country that wants to decide its future by voting, that wants to determine itself; you have also seen how the police have attacked voters, how they have imprisoned our legitimate representatives for having organized a referendum and how they are now being tried as if they were criminals. but while you were discovering this, we catalans were discovering something else: we were discovering the most hypocritical face of europe. while the majority remained silent, while juncker received awards in spain and while timmermans saw no problem with democracy and fundamental rights in spain, our disillusionment with europe multiplied. but if what you want is for catalan independence to be disassociated from europe, i say to you that you will not get it, that we will not do you this favour. it is not we who have broken away from the project of european values: it is you. so we will come back, and with greater force, to take back the rights and freedoms of europe that should never have been abandoned.
madam president, i thank you for giving me the floor. because in all my speeches in this parliament since 1 march i have always referred to life and to life-related issues. but today i invoke a right, which is the right to die with dignity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this disease. a debate because a person, the husband of a woman with a very serious illness, for assisting her in a dignified death had to go to court, and possibly committed a crime. a very serious situation. because if that person lived in belgium, he would have different rights. or if you live in one of the few member states that recognize euthanasia. i would like to ask the commission at this time, and also the outgoing parliament, to open a debate in europe on euthanasia. in all the member states and as a european matter.
president of the european council. – mr president, from this place i would like to say words of comfort and solidarity with the whole french nation in the face of the paris tragedy. i say these words not only as the president of the european council, but also as a citizen of gdańsk, 90 per cent destroyed and burnt, and later rebuilt. you will also rebuild your cathedral. from strasbourg, the french capital of the european union, i call on all the 28 member states to take part in this task. i know that france could do it alone, but at stake here is something more than just material help. the burning of the notre-dame cathedral in paris has again made us aware that we are bound by something more important and more profound than treaties. today we understand better the essence of that which is common, we know how much we can lose. and that we want to defend it – together. last week the european council of 27 leaders, in agreement with the government of the united kingdom, granted a flexible extension of the article 50 period until 31 october this year. this extension gives our british friends more time and political space to find a way out of the current situation. i hope that they will use this time in the best possible way. the european council will be awaiting a clear message from the uk on a way forward. if the withdrawal agreement were to be ratified, the extension period will automatically end on the first day of the following month, meaning that the uk would leave the union on that day. it is clear to everyone that there will be no re-opening of the withdrawal agreement. however, to facilitate the ratification process, the eu27 is ready to reconsider the political declaration on the future relationship, if the uk position were to evolve. last week, the european council changed the logic of granting a much shorter extension than requested by the uk, to giving an extension that is much longer. i proposed such a change, as in my view it has a few advantages. first and foremost, only a long extension ensures that all options remain on the table, such as ratification of the current withdrawal agreement, or extra time to rethink brexit, if that were the wish of the british people. second, this extension allows the eu to focus on other priorities that are at least as important, like trade with the united states or the new eu leadership. i know that some have expressed fear that the uk might want to disrupt the eu’s functioning during this time. but the eu27 didn’t give in to such fear and scaremongering. in fact, since the very beginning of the brexit process, the uk has been a constructive and responsible eu member state. and so we have no reason to believe that this should change. third, this flexible extension delays the possibility of a no-deal brexit by over six months. thanks to this, millions of people and businesses have gained at least some certainty in these unstable times. one of the consequences of our decision is that the uk will hold european elections next month. we should approach this seriously, as uk members of the european parliament will be there for several months, maybe longer. they will be full members of the parliament, with all their rights and obligations. i am speaking about this today because i have strongly opposed the idea that during this further extension, the uk should be treated as a second-category member state. no, it cannot. therefore, i also ask you to reject similar ideas, if they were to be voiced in this house. i know that on both sides of the channel, everyone, including myself, is exhausted with brexit, which is completely understandable. however, this is not an excuse to say: “let’s get it over with”, just because we are tired. we must continue to deal with brexit with an open mind and in a civilised manner. because whatever happens, we are bound by common fate, and we want to remain friends and close partners in the future. during the european council one of the leaders warned us not to be dreamers, and that we shouldn’t think that brexit could be reversed. i didn’t respond at the time, but today, in front of you, i would like to say: at this rather difficult moment in our history, we need the dreamers and dreams. we cannot give in to fatalism. at least i will not stop dreaming about a better and united europe. dear friends, this is our last meeting in your current term. i hope to have the opportunity to meet most of you after the elections. (applause)
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday was a terrible day for all those who love france and paris. for all of us, paris is not a neutral place, it's a place we always love to fall in love with again. the spectacle of this city struggling with a tragedy which is not only architectural but which concerns the lives of the french people, the spectacle of this monument, notre dame, symbol of the greatness of france, as witnessed by its many visitors over time, destroyed by the flames, breaks our hearts. yesterday, a large part of france was deeply affected by this event and we are all in some way in mourning today. i would like to express to our french friends the full sympathy of the commission, which has also said that it is ready to support france in this difficult situation. europe has been wounded, france has been wounded, paris has been wounded, we have been wounded and we stand in solidarity with our french friends. since we finished the european council in the early hours of last thursday, the commission and myself, we are on a brexit break. we are focusing on the very many other issues for our union. we are focusing on our positive agenda. with that in mind, i want to be very brief. last week the european council, in an agreement with the united kingdom, took a united and responsible decision to grant an extension of the article 50 period until 31 october this year. this was an acceptable outcome for three main reasons. first of all, and with the support of this house, we have adopted the necessary contingency measures and we are ready for a no-deal brexit. the only ones who would benefit are those who resent multilateralism and seek to undermine the global legal order, and in any case we will never kick out one of our members. secondly, we have protected the integrity and the functioning of this house and all our institutions. if the united kingdom is a member on 23 may, it must hold european elections. if it does not do so, and the withdrawal agreement is not ratified by 22 may, the extension ends on 31 may. this is now the legal situation. thirdly, we have made sure that we do not need to discuss brexit every other week and have given the united kingdom the time and space to find a way out of the impasse. once the withdrawal agreement is in force, the commission will work as closely together with parliament as we did during the entire brexit negotiations. the full transparency of our negotiations and the close and effective teamwork with the brexit steering group was our strength in the brexit negotiations and i want to continue this good practice during the implementation of the withdrawal agreement whenever a decision has to be taken in the so-called joint committee, the commission will therefore closely involve parliament and take utmost account of your views. we have learned to pay a lot of attention to the house of commons over the last few months, but let me be very clear, on brexit nothing can be decided against the views of this house of european democracy. nothing can be decided on brexit without taking full account of the position of the european parliament. my very sincere ladies and gentlemen! the 31st october is the new deadline for an orderly withdrawal of the united kingdom or, should the withdrawal agreement not yet be ratified by the british parliament, for a hardened brexit, which we all want to avoid. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the european court of justice has expressly made this clear. but this is not my working hypothesis. so also my working hypothesis is that we extend the deadline beyond october 31. this is not my working hypothesis. i can't believe this date, october 31st, at all. october 31st is my last working day as president of the commission. it is also possible that no night sessions will take place on 31 october, because at twelve o'clock the chamber must be left, but donald tusk can remain. i became president of the commission because i wanted to speed up european affairs. because i would have liked to have said that we in social matters europe continue to come. we have come a long way, but not far enough, because i also wanted to bring the necessary reform of economic and monetary union to a conclusion. because i would have liked to have said that we could talk about financing for the next period, 2021-2028. and i do not want the many researchers, the many young people, erasmus students and others to become victims of this brexit story. they deserve better, and we must ensure that they are not further removed from europe. the answer, which way great britain will be hit, must at least come from london. the sooner the better. i very much welcome the fact that the government and the opposition are now in a dialogue mode. das wird als fortschritt gefeiert is in the british context also a progress. it is not normal, however, that the tragic forces find each other so late. this is not normal! and i welcome it therefore that these talks are now finally taking place. when the british leave the european union, it is in their hands alone. as the uk leaves the european union, we have agreed with the uk government in november 2018 in the form of the withdrawal agreement. this result of the negotiations shall continue to apply. the negotiations on the withdrawal agreement will take place at no time. the european union is a political union, and it is not a political union. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, brexit is not the future of the european union. the future of our union goes far beyond brexit, which must not and cannot impede our work on our major priorities. this is why the european council agreed on two principles. firstly, as long as the united kingdom is a member of the european union, we expect constructive, responsible and fair cooperation. this is a guiding principle of the treaty which we must respect. we not only respect; we are requesting that there will be a loyal and responsible cooperation. secondly, there is no second-tier member state, but if one member state wants to leave the european union, the other 27 must have the right to meet separately to discuss future issues. this is not new. in december 1997, when i was president of the european council, i launched the 'eurogroup' against the advice of the british, the danes, the swedes and a few others. this eurogroup, this small group of those who feel concerned and who are concerned by the monetary construction of europe, had the right to meet. it has been put together and the results have been appreciable. the european union faces strategic challenges to which it must respond. first, we will discuss in sibiu in may the strategic direction of the european union for the coming years. then there is the next multiannual budget which we must, in principle, decide on in october. the next step is the election of the future leaders of the european union. after the european parliament, elected by the largest electoral body after india, we will have to elect a new president of the commission and the european council will have to appoint a new president of the council. the future of our union is our place in the world, our trade agreements, our relations with our major international partners, in particular china, with whom we had a very constructive summit last week. this june, the g20 will be held in osaka, where we will discuss the future of world trade. all of this, to be honest, is more important than the brexit ups and downs. europe is moving forward. (applause) i would like to thank commission declaration for the european parliament plenary the commission recalls its commitment to ensure that the european parliament is immediately and fully informed, in line with article 218 (10) tfeu, in relation to the work of the joint committee and the specialised committees established by the agreement on the withdrawal of the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland from the european union and the european atomic energy community (the 'withdrawal agreement'). in order to enable the european parliament to exercise fully its institutional prerogatives throughout the process in accordance with the treaties, the commission will ensure that parliament receives sufficient and timely information before and after the meetings of the joint committee or the specialised committees of the withdrawal agreement. moreover, the commission considers that given the exceptional nature of the withdrawal agreement based on article 50 teu, adequate involvement of the european parliament is necessary in case the joint committee envisages adopting any of the following decisions:- the decision to extend the transition period in accordance with article 132 of the withdrawal agreement, including the determination of the financial contribution referred to therein,- the decision referred to in article 159 (3) of the withdrawal agreement relating to the abolition of the united kingdom's independent authority monitoring the implementation and application of part two of the withdrawal agreement on citizens' rights;- a decision referred to in article 20 of the protocol on ireland/northern ireland that the protocol shall cease to apply in whole or in part. therefore, in relation to these decisions, the commission will inform the european parliament sufficiently in advance of its intention to submit a proposal for a decision on the position to be taken in the joint committee, and of the substance of its envisaged proposal. the commission will take utmost account of any comments of the european parliament in this respect. it commits, in case it does not follow ep position, to explain the reasons for which it did not. the commission understands that, in view of the short time frame available, the matter will be handled in the european parliament as a matter of urgency. the commission will then forward its proposal to the european parliament for information at the same time as it sends it to the council for adoption in accordance with article 218 (9) tfeu. the commission recalls that these practical arrangements must be seen in the context of the exceptional nature of an agreement based on article 50 teu and do not constitute a precedent for any other agreements.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i have to speak about the pain i felt yesterday watching the notre-dame cathedral burn. the burning of notre-dame grieved us europeans as if we were all french: we all feel the same desolation, we all feel the same helplessness and, this morning, we all want to join in the reconstruction. people don't grow by crying together, but by moving forward together. that is why the fire at notre dame yesterday makes us more european, not because we mourn together, but because we are going to rebuild the cathedral together. the european union should commit today to providing financial and craftsman aid - all that is needed - to rebuild the cathedral as cathedrals were built in the past, bringing everyone into the project. the fire at notre-dame reminds us that europeans are never alone. europe is the answer to fire, destruction, selfishness and poverty. so last night, watching the cathedral burn, i asked myself once again: "but why do the british want to leave here?" the european union is a community of principles and values. if you think it's not working, you reform it and try to fix it, but you don't leave. you don't leave because values never stop being shared and because they're never negotiable. whatever happens, there are three lessons we have learned from brexit: first, in politics you cannot promise what you cannot deliver; second, in politics lies always bring disappointment; and third, the bonds that history has forged cannot be broken by economic selfishness. no one wants a hard brexit, but worse is an indefinite and undated brexit. i believe that europe is incomplete without the united kingdom, but if british politicians are not able to find a solution, let them give the people their say. the notre-dame fire also shows us that we talk too much about brexit and too little about everything else. i am sorry for the vanity of british politicians, but today my pain for the fire at notre-dame makes me more european than my indignation at their incompetence.
madam president, this sunday i was in london. i was there with the galician community, which is very large, living in the united kingdom. they have uncertainties, uncertainties about the free movement of people, uncertainties about services, uncertainties also about the question of medicines. they work, live and study in the uk. they feel european and european and they don't know what's going to happen. what about fisheries and services policy, mr tusk and mr juncker? the flexibility that is being discussed here today in this last plenary session of this parliament is our obligation as members of the european parliament to give the flexibility to people living in the united kingdom who feel european, to give them certainty.
madam president, president juncker, europe has to move on, europe has to move on and concentrate at last, after the brexit fatigue, on what unites us, such as the feeling of devastation at the fire of notre dame in paris, in france and in europe. on 26 may we are facing a decisive, existential election for the european union. and the uncertainty and difficulty is further increased by the doubt about its composition and its functioning, and about the united kingdom's participation in the forthcoming european elections. and i look forward to the day when the incompetents who are unable to reach an agreement in the house of commons will be held accountable for this, as will the frivolous demagogues who have been defending the cause against the european union for 20 years in the european parliament. and i look forward to the day on 26 may when the europeans will decisively defeat the demagogy of europhobia, not only in the united kingdom but in the european union as a whole.
president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i take the floor to thank the members of this house, of this parliament, after years of wandering together here in strasbourg. i will be here at the beginning of the next parliament, but i will miss my good friend elmar brok very much in this new parliament. i spent 40 years with him through thick and thin, we argued, we agreed, we laughed, sometimes we cried. it was nice to see you, elmar, thank you.
president of the european council. – madam president, i have just one remark. for many weeks now, the participation of the uk in the elections to the european parliament has evoked emotions, especially in this chamber. i want to remind everybody that the uk has the right and obligation to take part in this election as long as it is a member of the eu. this is not subject to negotiation. i also can’t agree to establishing a second-category membership. i understand party interests, but they cannot overshadow the legal reality. mr verhofstadt was heartily and energetically applauded by mr farage. this is a good enough reason for you, mr verhofstadt, to deeply re-think and reformulate your argumentation. (applause)
the rapporteur. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have the honour to present here the work of a whole team, to whom i am grateful for the hard work they have put in over many months, but under pressure of time, to produce or propose the production of a directive which in some way builds on an earlier directive, which was adopted 28 years ago, and goes much further. i will begin by stressing the political importance of this directive at this time. this directive is part of the development of the social pillar which this parliament will always have the honour of having proclaimed in gothenburg last year. it is a first - i would say a giant - step towards the practical and concrete implementation of the rights contained in the social pillar and, in that sense, it is a directive which affects all workers in the european union and, therefore, all citizens who are generally either preparing for work or working - if they can - or enjoying the rights they acquired while working. it therefore affects five hundred million european citizens who are called to the polls within a month. that is why it is important that this directive be adopted in this parliament, which has been a balancing act between all the forces involved. this directive - let me be very clear - sets out the same minimum rights for all workers in europe: minimum rights. it does not lay down laws, it does not lay down methods, it does not lay down practical arrangements for their implementation, because that is what the member states will do. let me be very clear: there is no interference with the principle of subsidiarity; what it establishes are 'rights' and 'minimums' so that in europe we can speak of a social europe in which professional life can develop. i can only dwell on the content of the directive because it is what you know best and have read most: there are rights to information which have been greatly improved in comparison with the 1991 directive; there are rights to non-abuse, to non-abuse of probationary periods; and there are rights to training, which are absolutely universal in europe from now on or when it is transposed, but which are already a reference. and the great contribution of this text: substantive rights are given particularly aimed at all new forms of recruitment - on demand, platforms, what is called precarious work, whatever you want. all these workers, who are now in a kind of limbo that deprives them of their rights, will now have the reference of the court of justice of the european union and the reference of this directive so that no one can abuse or over-exploit the indispensable flexibility that is recognized. the directive also has its importance in the case of the level playing field - something that is not noticed or not so much said - that is, it ensures that the famous spectre of social dumping will never be at the expense of a minimum quality of life for workers, since this will be the same throughout europe. please bear in mind that we are building europe - which was destroyed yesterday in a regrettable way - and in particular social europe. thank you very much to all who have helped me in this work.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's labour market is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the european union is not forced to adopt new policies. this directive will also cover and protect platform workers, digital platform workers, who in many member states today have inefficient legislation to protect them socially. it includes relevant measures to combat abuses in zero-hour contracts or on-demand work. we must thank and acknowledge the work done by the european commission, and especially by our commissioner for employment and social affairs, mrs thyssen, by the european parliament and those of us who have been responsible for this dossier, and by the council presidency, the romanian presidency, which has been able to push through, in this last plenary session, a directive which shapes the european pillar of social rights. because it must be said that we are not just passing a regulation today. today we are showing a way, we are pointing a way for europe. a useful europe that protects, recovers and reclaims its social soul, that makes the european pillar of social rights a reality, not just a list of good intentions, and that wants it to be grounded in rules, tools and budget. why would you do that? because today the european social dimension is not the consequence of integration. today it is the precondition for european integration. we need to dampen and combat inequalities. we need to protect those who are displaced by globalisation and create economic security and job security. it is the only way to protect and nurture a fragile european democracy.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done and at the same time regret that the council has once again blocked any progress on the rights of european workers. the mandate of parliament ensured rights for workers in the most precarious conditions and the text we are about to vote on has left them with virtually no protection whatsoever. the emergency services, security forces, civil servants, seafarers, domestic workers under certain conditions and those with contracts of less than 12 hours per month, among many other workers, have been excluded. as the trade unions say, these exemptions are discriminatory and a dangerous precedent with respect to the european union's approach to minimum rights which by definition must be universal. the opportunity to build a social europe demanded by the workers has once again been lost. but what is being brought to the table is a much deeper problem, and that is the institutional framework of the european union, where the council - the member states - permanently blocks the decisions of the european parliament, which is the one the citizens vote for. you are the ones who are contributing to the widening of the public disaffection in the institutions and, with it, the advance of the extreme right. when they try to correct the course, they are already too late.
madam president, despite the good work of parliament - and i want to thank the people who have devoted themselves to this dossier - the council has watered down key elements of this piece of legislation which is fundamental for social europe. we have lost an inclusive and comprehensive definition of what a worker is, and the final text also offers great possibilities for member states to grant exemptions for all workers working less than 12 hours a month and also for a long list of professions, as the trade unions have denounced. in addition, a written contract is only required from the seventh day onwards, and in practice this means that for those who contract under the table, a worker will only have been there for six days when the labour inspector shows up. finally, as has been said, the shameful zero-hour contracts that many of our fellow citizens suffer from are not prohibited either. the reality is that a growing number of workers who are now working in precarious jobs are not sufficiently protected. the social europe deserves ambition and conviction, not the constant and exasperating debate to which we are accustomed in the council, despite the repeated requests of the european parliament.
madam president, new forms of work, such as on-demand work, based on extreme flexibility of regulation, instability and total availability, cannot continue to be, as they have been, new forms of cheap and precarious employment that feed on people who are left out of the system. this directive could have been ambitious and inclusive because its objective was to provide certainty for the labour market. however, by excluding from zero-hour contracts or from the chapter on minimum requirements groups such as the public emergency service, civil servants, researchers or seafarers - among others - it does not protect the people who need it most, many of them women, as is the case with domestic workers who perform domestic and care work and who, once again, have been left out of this legislation, something that is not understood, especially after this house passed a report to dignify their conditions. we cannot support this exclusionary and unfair regulation with those who need it most.
member of the commission. – madam president, i have already thanked the rapporteur, but let me also thank the shadow rapporteurs and also the romanian presidency for their constructive and successful negotiations. honourable members of parliament, with the proposed directive on transparent and predictable working conditions, we focus on what is really necessary for workers in today’s labour market. flexibility is today inevitable, just like digitalisation. therefore, we have not sought to prohibit new types of employment, but to support the workers concerned with protection against excessive practices and with the minimum of predictability that everybody needs to organise life. the implementation of this directive will be a common task for member states, employers and workers, with all the adequate room for social partners to make the rules a success on the ground. i call on you to support the directive. it’s a crucial measure of social justice and solidarity for all our citizens. as i said before, madam president, this directive is also a major achievement to make the european pillar of social rights a reality. we should all be proud of this milestone. honourable members, allow me to conclude by making the connection between this directive and our other initiatives – posting of workers, protection against cancelled work, access to social protection for all, the accessibility act, the skills agenda, a more european semester and, not to forget, work-life balance. i believe all these initiatives, those decisions, they show what this commission and this parliament, together with the council, have done during our mandate, bringing social europe back at the centre of the union’s action. (applause)
the rapporteur. madam president, i have the utmost respect for those who are expressing reservations, and i will answer only those who are. if it is any consolation, which i do not think it is, i am also frustrated that we did not go further, but my job as a representative of parliament was to find a balance. basically, what you notice are three "pains", we might say. the first is that it does not cover everyone, because three hours a week and 12 hours are required. it is true, and we would have preferred it to encompass the whole world; but you notice, anyway, the advance with what we had before, which asked for two months. in any case, i would remind you that we have asked the commission to exercise a great deal of active vigilance so that, if contracts of, say, 11 hours a month proliferate, then obviously measures will have to be taken. secondly, there is also the issue of exclusion. i have not understood them, i do not approve of them, i do not understand these lobbies - for example the sea workers - but there was no way to reach a balanced agreement without going through them. i say that calmly. and then i find myself facing zero hours. we have made zero hours extremely difficult and, moreover, they are, from this moment on, unrepeatable. they can't be renewed. at this point, i would like to ask my colleagues to ask themselves the same question i have asked myself: is this a good thing, even if it is not perfect, is this a good thing for the future of european workers? is that much better than nothing? my conclusion has been that yes, and i ask you, respecting your ambitions, absolutely respecting your manhood of good or womanhood of good in criticizing the text, to consider whether the perfect is not the enemy of the good and whether it is not worth, in any case, a strong support of the whole of parliament to this stage in the construction of social europe.
rapporteur for the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. – madam president, the establishment of the european labour authority is a step forward in the protection of workers’ rights and the enforcement of labour law provisions for those many eu workers using their right to free movement. however, as rapporteur for the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm), i wish that more of the proposals put forward in our opinion had been taken on board. for instance, the introduction of a clause to ensure gender mainstreaming, the need to carry out a gender impact assessment before the drafting of annual and multiannual programming, the need to liaise with the european institute for gender equality (eige) – not only with eurostat – when compiling statistic—relevant data, ensuring gender—sensitive reporting and evaluations, including the collection of gender—disaggregated data, and finally, not aiming at, but ensuring, gender balance in the composition of the european labour authority’s governing and consultative bodies. nevertheless, we fully support the report and hope that the authority will become operational as soon as possible.
madam president, madam commissioner, it is me again. what are we gonna do to him! i am addicted to social policy and social europe. i would just like to say that this is in line with the line which the commissioner set out at the end of the previous debate, in line with the great effort which we are making at the end of the mandate, the commission, parliament and, more reticently, the council, towards the creation of a social europe, towards its positive development. i thank the rapporteur and all the other rapporteurs for what they have done. of course, this could have been perfect, but it is still a huge step towards facilitating the mobility of workers, towards monitoring abuses, towards the correct implementation of the european minimum rights and therefore it can only be welcomed and supported by this parliament.
member of the commission. – madam president, as i said before, our proposal for setting up the european labour authority has been the final piece of the legislative reform that we launched towards ensuring fair labour mobility. when i received my portfolio on employment, social affairs, skills and labour mobility, i knew that labour mobility would not be the easiest area. i am therefore very happy that, after the division of the posting of workers directive, you are now asked to vote on this regulation, which is another milestone for ensuring fair labour mobility in europe. it realises the principle of the pillar of social rights in a cross-border context. unfortunately, it has not yet been possible for the co-legislators to agree on the proposed modernisation of the social security coordination rules. i am confident, however, that the position that you adopt thursday in first reading will laid the grounds for a fruitful and, hopefully, swift adoption after the european parliament’s elections. the millions of citizens for whom labour mobility is a daily reality, an opportunity, or sometimes a bare necessity, merit to benefit from updated rules as soon as possible. free movement has always been a founding principle for our european union and it has remained so even more today. the economies and labour markets of our member states have become deeply intertwined. free movement also feeds the connection between our citizens and peoples. facilitating free movement while at the same time ensuring that the european rules are applied in a fair way, these have been the guiding principles in my proposals on labour mobility. these guiding principles allowed us to obtain legislative reforms, supported by east and west and north and south, and these principles also underpin the regulation establishing the european labour authority. i just call on you to support this regulation.
i would like to say a few words to welcome greta thunberg before we begin the voting. we have a special guest with us today in the visitors' gallery, someone who, it would seem, needs no introduction. she is a young citizen of the european union from sweden who, with her personal history, her courage, her ideas and her clarity, has become a symbol of the fight against climate change, given the urgency and ambition that this requires. (prolonged applause) greta thunberg is urging us, the legislators, but also businesses and citizens to redouble our efforts in the face of the climate crisis. the european parliament's record during this parliamentary term has shown that we share to a large extent the urgency and ambition of this young european. we will be able to look back on this legislature in the knowledge that the european union has embarked on an irreversible path with regard to climate and environmental protection. whether we look at emissions from the transport sector or the reform of the emissions trading scheme, parliament has always been the institution that has set the highest bar in the interests of sustainability, not to mention the record-breaking ratification of the paris agreement, which we pushed for and celebrated in this house in the presence of the then un secretary-general ban ki-moon. but we also know that this is not enough, that we must all do more at individual, local, national, european and international levels if we are to avoid global warming above 1.5 degrees celsius and the devastation that this entails. the next legislature will be key in this respect. she will speak at an exchange of views in the envi committee at 2 p.m. in a session open to all members. we applauded her earlier; i think it would be good to welcome greta thunberg again. welcome to the club, greta!
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, pursuant to rule 59 (3) of the rules of procedure, i would like to ask for a procedural vote by roll-call to vote on the amendments first, before the provisional agreement. these amendments remove discriminatory exceptions in the application of the directive and thus we will achieve protection for all workers, especially those in a particularly precarious situation such as domestic workers and seamen. i therefore call for a vote in favour of this procedural vote.
the rapporteur. mr president, with due respect for the very good intentions and probably sharing the views behind this request, since there are also exclusions which i have not been able to avoid and which i do not share, for the sake of parliamentary work, for the sake of a piece which has much more than that, i ask, please, in respect of the balance so difficult to achieve in the negotiations, that this request not be accepted and that we vote on the text without weakening it.
the rapporteur. i would like to thank absolutely all those in this parliament who were against or in favour of this text. i would like to thank my whole team, the romanian presidency and mrs thyssen for having marked this milestone in the history of the construction of social europe, because i have the honour of taking this last text with me as the best memory of my time in this magnificent institution.
the rapporteur. mr president, simply to say that it has been three years of work, hundreds of meetings, two attempts to reform this regulation in the last sixteen years, a single agreement covering thirty different regulations, and therefore to call for a vote in favour of an agreement which has been a fragile agreement but which has achieved a great deal of consensus.
you come well provided for. he's missing his boat. (the president counted his hands) that's perfect. just take it easy. yes, indeed, more than thirty-eight members. i am not going to go into the details of the vote.
the rapporteur. mr president, simply to show my position against mr van dalen's request. for one simple reason. because what you are trying to do with your amendment is to overturn the overwhelming majority agreement of this house to ban electric fishing altogether. that is the mandate we have and it is the mandate i ask that you vote, and therefore vote against mr van dalen's position at this time.
we have now reached the end of the voting period.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, first of all, i would like to thank you for the efforts of the commission, yourself and the countries that have responded, perhaps a little slowly but with effort, to this great climate disaster. three countries, the combined size of france, spain, and italy, have been affected by the same disaster. does it take more reflection to understand that we are facing a phenomenon - global warming - that affects us all and that we must respond to globally? the countries involved in this natural disaster, however, have another condition. they are poor countries. and the climate disaster itself destroys more of those who have less. it destroys schools, it destroys homes, it destroys health systems. in what may be my last speech as parliament's permanent rapporteur on humanitarian aid, i want to call for progress in the next legislature on the regulation of the figure of the climate refugee. we will have more and more people fleeing from hunger and destruction as a result of natural disasters. and we have to give them hope that we can serve them by recognizing their rights, because those who have lost everything but their dignity cannot finally give up hope in us.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, there is really little to add to what the high representative has said in this house, which is the only reasonable position for the european union. it is true that some time has been lost and some member states have been slow to understand that their support for haftar was a dangerous support, because in the end haftar will always propose a military solution. it is also clear that only dialogue between libyans can begin to build a libya with some stability and without war. it is also true that libya is so close to us that it is our primary obligation to keep the member states united, speaking with one voice, supporting the un special envoy, the un, the european union, the african union, to try to build a certain stage of trust so that a political agreement is possible. it is also true that we must not forget the situation of refugees, which we have also begun to manage positively and which is likely to become a new focus of risk in the coming months. so, on behalf of the socialist group, we once again wholeheartedly support the work and efforts of the high representative.
madam president, i regret once again that there is armed conflict in libya, that there are deaths again, and this time with a military threat. perhaps, however, listening to mr brok and other colleagues before him, if we had focused more on libya and the libyan people and less on making libya a theatre of our european grievances, we would have been much more effective. that is why it particularly supports all the work that the high representative is doing precisely to propose a solution of truce, a solution of conference, a multilateral solution that goes beyond european quarrels. and of course, it would be very negative for libyans, for the victims who have already been there and their families, and also for the most deprived, who are the immigrants, if we again dropped our debates on libya before the european elections. i believe that the european union must now be more united than ever, precisely in the wake of the proposals of the united nations high representative and high commissioner. and of course, let's stop, please, with electoralism and especially with the lives of libyans and libyan women.
madam president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, after the fall of colonel gaddafi's regime, libya has been in a state of great instability which has clearly translated into a situation out of control in which militias are fighting for control of the territory. this has obviously resulted in two governments, one in tripoli and the other in tobruk, and this offensive by marshal haftar has logically created more instability. what can the european union do in this situation? as the high representative has said, it must try to maintain calm, to bring about a cessation of hostilities, while respecting the arms embargo for both sides, while supporting and avoiding a humanitarian crisis like the one that is coming - even greater - and while dealing with the emergency of thousands of refugees in a terrible situation, and at the same time, the european union must support these efforts for stability, for order and the rule of law through dialogue among the libyans themselves, as the un secretary-general, antónio guterres, has pointed out on the ground very recently. we believe that all these efforts are vital efforts, madam president, not only for the country but also for the region and for the interests of the european union as a whole, which must act - as other colleagues have pointed out - in a united, joint manner, under the guidance and representation of the high representative and vice-president.
the truth is that what is happening between israel and palestine, the path that the trump administration has taken by taking mr netanyahu by the hand, is nothing new. it's very clear what they're doing, even if mr. preda is surprised. the problem is what we do. why are we still so timid in denouncing what is clearly a violation of international law? what we consent to the israeli government and what we consent to the american administration is outside international law. and we cannot demand that some comply with international law and allow others not to. i have the impression that we are too timid because we do not know how to deal with an american administration which is clearly hostile to the european union. i think one of my first speeches in this house was on the israeli-palestinian conflict. and this is my penultimate speech to the house, and it is also about a conflict that is receding in its chances of becoming a path to peace, a situation that we are unable to manage, that produces enormous injustices and that is going to make the two-state solution physically impossible. we will continue to claim the two states in political terms, but in physical terms we will not be able to do the two states. and i think it's time we raised our voices a little bit more.
madam president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, you can be friends with israel, but that does not mean that every time the president of the united states has a new idea, the european union has to rush out and change its positions. and that applies, madam president, to the status of jerusalem and un security council resolution 478, to sovereignty over the golan heights - resolutions 242 and 497 - and to the annexation of the west bank settlements. these unilateral decisions only fragment and break the international consensus, make the already very complex middle east peace process more difficult and make the doctrine of two states, which the european union defends, of two viable states coexisting peacefully and in security conditions to which both the israeli and the palestinian people aspire, even more complicated.
mr president, madam high representative, we are facing an expectation of change. the change is widely demanded by the people of sudan, and is mainly driven by women and by some sectors of society which represent the country's capacity to make progress. but this situation of 30 years of authoritarian rule is compounded by a humanitarian crisis of the first order. around seven million people are at risk of severe hunger in the country. there are about two million internally displaced people and there are over a million refugees from neighbouring countries. all this in a context where eritrea, ethiopia, south sudan, somalia and djibouti are probably the most important humanitarian crisis in the world. a total of about twenty million people in dire need. and it is to this population that we must respond through humanitarian aid, but above all by supporting the achievement of a stable regime and the achievement of peace. i therefore support the position of the commission - or the high representative - to support a civilian transition, not to recognise a military government, to continue to push bashir to the international criminal court and to call for an end to the repression of doctors, medical personnel and key players in the fight against the humanitarian crisis.
mr president, commissioner king, freedom of speech does not give the right to insult, to slander or to slander. and freedom of information does not give you the right to lie, manipulate or poison. and without this elementary principle, open society is fragile, and democracy is vulnerable unless we democrats do something about it. that is why it is essential, in the face of the cyber revolution, that democracy is defended with a cybersecurity strategy, which is exactly what we demand of the commission and the commissioner for security in this european parliament. to fight against fake news, against the hybrid wars of trolls and fake profiles on the net. and precisely so that there can be an informed debate before the european elections on 26 may. but none of this is to prevent us europeans from communicating and explaining in these elections what is really at stake. nothing less than the future of the european union. in a democratic space worthy of the name, with public debate in an open and freely informed society. that is our duty, because the challenge of the european union, you have no doubt, is really existential on this occasion.
mr. president, this morning i was insulted on twitter with a fake profile. just this morning, a political party asked me to vote for them without being their facebook friend. this morning, i felt the need to come to this debate when i saw that it was on the agenda. it was not a personal matter, but it was the debate of manipulation, the attack on plurality, the attack on democracy. commissioner, this cyber warfare goes beyond acting now, at the last minute, but at least some steps have been taken, no? that need to prevent the risks associated with disinformation and fake news is topical, with cybersecurity incidents on facebook compromising the news of millions of users, also in europe and beyond. this alteration of democracy is, in short, an electoral interference, but do you know for what fundamentally? for the extreme right-wing parties; fundamentally for the parties that incite hatred and xenophobia and that amplify racist and xenophobic discourse. we are living it right now in the spanish state. the removal of fake accounts on twitter and facebook, not allowing control not only online but also offline, independent analyses and political transparency would be our goal.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, our view is different from what has been expressed so far by the speakers. the new framework programme reproduces a model of r & d which is opposed to the values of justice, solidarity and public service. little change in how and for whom we innovate and research compared to the old horizon 2020. i also wonder about the scandalous blocking of the precautionary principle throughout the programme. we would have liked to have a program that put forward, unfolded and unfolded, challenges like the ecological crisis, gender equality, food security, employment, access to health or inequality around the world. horizon europe will fail to ensure a fair social return on the multi-billion public investment in private projects. once again, profit takes precedence over the general interest, as its objectives are far removed from the priorities i have already mentioned. and, finally, and as this is my last speech as a member of the european parliament, i do not want to leave without thanking the voters who gave me their trust in 2014, and especially the colleagues who have accompanied me on this journey: amelia, viviana, carlos, jorge, jacob, ana and david, to the rest of my podemos delegation in europe. thank you very much, because without you i couldn't have done it.
i am convinced that the european union is well placed to meet the challenges of the future, and that the european union is well placed to meet the challenges of the future. it therefore introduces, at the request of parliament, the need to measure the social and not just the economic impact. science has to solve inequalities and challenges and not generate new inequalities. it strengthens gender: europe needs all its talent and we cannot do without women. it is therefore an operational objective, has a specific budget line and also conciliation measures. it also helps to bridge the gap between regions; it aligns social challenges with budgetary priorities and clusters; it strengthens health, the fight against climate change, the social and human sciences, digital, creative industries, the blue economy, food security and scientific diplomacy. but i do not want to overlook the role that has been given to smes, the 99% of the non-financial business sector in the european union, which are key to improving the competitiveness of the european union by closing the innovation gap. i therefore have nothing but praise for the whole team at the commission and the european parliament which has made this great project for the european union possible.
mr president, commissioner, this is my last speech in the house as a member of parliament, and i am grateful to be able to do so in connection with the adoption of the new horizon europe programme, because it sums up an idea of europe and its future which has governed my actions in this mandate. the new horizon sets out three major key priorities to ensure a better future for future generations: tackling climate change, the digital economy and health. we heard greta thunberg's very emotional words at the envi commission meeting today, and we have repeated it many times in this house: action against climate change is urgent and necessary, it is not an option. we must continue to lead this fight from within the union, turning words into deeds. from word to action. and in this sense we have proposed that 35% of the programme's funds should be allocated to activities related to the fight against climate change, going even further than the commission's initial approach. secondly, the digital economy, so that the union can remain a pole of attraction for science and knowledge at world level. horizon will therefore be the largest research and development programme in the world. to guarantee our independence, we cannot and do not want to be left behind or in the hands of other powers such as the asian giants or the united states. finally, health. we need more research in health, and we will devote a significant part of the funds to the fight against cancer - including childhood cancer - but without leaving behind research into rare diseases and mental health, which affect thousands and millions of europeans. much obrigado, comissário, for the work of these five years.
member of the commission. mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, something is making me want to speak in czech at the end. for good reasons, because i think that the way i approached the dual quality food problem came a little bit from the fact that i am a czech citizen who also gets really annoyed when she sees products on the shelves in her country that are of lower quality than those abroad. where were we a year and a half ago? i've been to a number of agricultural councils, to compet, to a number of member countries, and i've heard a lot of great doubts about whether this problem even exists. and at the same time, i heard voices from the european parliament, mrs sehnal, mrs borzan, other colleagues, who for years have been loudly explaining the same thing, that the problem exists, that it is not the quasi-invention of someone who has no other problems, and so on. we've heard a lot of it. the fact that we have a directive on the table today that recognizes that there is a problem, and it's the unfair commercial practices directive, i think that's a shift. where were we a year and a half ago? i had on my desk tests from eight member countries that were done using different methodologies. i've been in very tough negotiations with industry representatives, food and beverage industry representatives, brand association representatives, and i've heard arguments like, "well, these tests are used in different ways, apples, pears and so on, it's not comparable, it's not relevant, we're not going to look at it". so we've done a methodology, we've invested in it, we're now testing the second set of products that are being selected by the member countries, and we're finding that about 20 to 30 percent of the products have the significant differences that we're targeting with this directive. the methodology that we've developed also says how do they have inspections, whether it's food or trade -- we don't tell the states who to deal with that, so i'll call the inspections -- how do they have inspections to collect samples from different countries and compare them and subject those samples to testing. we're there today, we have the methodology ready and it can be said that it can be continued. to your arguments: almette, what else was there, chocolate, ice cream, well, those are the things that we are focusing on, that we are so concerned about, and where we should trust these inspections to take samples, put them to the test and say clearly that less cocoa in chocolate is a counterfeit food and cannot continue, that milk powder instead of cream is a counterfeit food that must disappear from the market and so on. these are the things that can be addressed under this directive, these are the things that people are bothered by. let's have a little more faith in those who do the market surveillance that they'll go after these cases case by case and be brave enough to apply this new directive. dr. rush spoke of vague legal terms, which is of course a risk with any legislation. imagine if we were to characterize it by denying different qualities, but you couldn't really work with quality as a concept. i would like to remind you that this is not a directive which only deals with foodstuffs, but also with products as such. by withdrawing that thing as consumer commissioner, i basically spread it to all products. by the way, we're starting to do a drug testing methodology now. so we're talking about cars, building materials, a whole range of other products. so we had to define, in some way, what unfair business practices are. so please, let's have faith in our inspections that they're going to go after these cases and they're going to fairly measure case by case and they're going to sanction these things. i'm also concerned about what's happening in my country. i know the secretary of agriculture wants to get to the bottom of this. market surveillance authorities are preparing to assist with the relevant national legislation so that this can be applied in practice. there's one other thing that we weren't aware of a year and a half ago. mr. whisperer here said to get more active citizens involved. that's exactly what can't be done now, because neither the citizens who are annoyed and who only have suspicions but no evidence, nor the chains and retailers know that the producer has different ingredients under the same brand. this directive requires them to report it, and if they allow themselves to do such a thing, that there's a different composition, they'll have to prove why. the counterfeiting of the product is not an objective and justifiable distinction. it's just not for me. and i trust that won't be the case for the inspections. so for me, who, as you know, proposed a stricter regulation, and i take this as a compromise, as the art of the possible, because as we heard, most member states were against, there are two ways. trying to help the implementation in the member states to work, to get counterfeit food off the market, is one thing, but that means fair and bold market surveillance. brave in the sense of going with the directive, not going after it, but being consistent. second, of course, the awareness of the public and retailers to look for where the information is, what information is relevant to what product. of course, the third thing is, maybe the revision that's been done that allows us to really see if it's legislation that's falling on the ground, is producing results, if we see that there are any loopholes being exploited, then it's just going to have to tighten up. but that step is taken now. if we were to pull this off, we'd have nothing and we'd be back where we were a year and a half ago, which i just described here. the constellation that we will work in such a concentration on the same problem, whether the european parliament or the commission - here i will allow myself to note a personal note, that i used all the creativity and annoyance of myself as czech consumers and that i came up with this proposal - it was not entirely clear that i should be in charge, but the constellation was there. now we should give this thing a pass and watch and possibly revisit. for me, these are ways of working with compromise so that the consumer knows. it is not my way of telling the media that this is another proof of the difference between west and east, another ditch, another division, i am very much opposed to this argument, as i am opposed to the argument that central and eastern europe is the swamp or the dustbin of europe. i think that we can forgive ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, in our rhetoric. i am sorry that i have been very long, but i had a lot on my mind and i thank you for listening to me and i trust that, even if it is a compromise, it will be approved by the european parliament in the end.
the rapporteur. i am very pleased that after 20 years in this parliament my last speech is as rapporteur on the food chain, because i came here 20 years ago, as i said, in the midst of the mad cow crisis, after having been responsible for food and the agri-food industry in spain. i am actively involved in the regulation that gave rise to efsa and have been involved in all food legislation continuously over the years. today i can say with full knowledge of the facts that the european union has the strictest food legislation in the world and that we are a benchmark in food safety. i can say that our food industry is excellent, innovative and competitive, and i can say that efsa, for which i am the contact person for this parliament, has done a great job since its creation in accordance with the legislation in force. however, the regulation which created it in 2002 needed to be updated, not only because time has shown us where improvements could be made, but also because the citizens of the european union are increasingly interested in the food chain risk assessment process and in the transparency of the scientific studies on which decision-making is based. i only regret that this legislation has been rushed through, with little time to debate and under tremendous media pressure, which is not the best scenario. i think that calling this regulation the 'general food law' is a bit pretentious because it only addresses the issue of transparency. we cannot forget that in our food safety system, the responsibility for risk determination lies with the authority, but not risk management. i do not, however, wish to downplay the agreement we have reached; i sincerely believe that we have achieved our objective of ensuring a decision-making procedure, based on scientific evidence, which maintains a high level of public health and safety in the european union. at the same time, i think we can generate increased public trust in decision-making by making it more transparent. in order to ensure greater transparency, citizens will have immediate access to the scientific studies supporting the authorisation applications; that is, non-confidential information will be published at the moment when the application is considered valid or admissible. in this spirit of transparency, a database will be set up to ensure that companies submit all studies when they apply for authorisation and do not leave unsubmitted those that are unfavourable to them. in addition, companies that fail to comply with this obligation may be penalised. with this agreement we have also managed to strike a reasonable balance between transparency and the interests of industry in order to continue to encourage innovation in the food sector in the european union; that is to say, the disclosure of information will be without prejudice to industrial or intellectual property rights. in addition, to prevent such information from being used for unfair commercial purposes, certain safeguards have been introduced at the time of disclosure of the information, such as traceability. as regards the organization of efsa, i can only be pleased for two reasons: firstly, because parliament will now have two representatives on its board of directors, and secondly, because the participation of the member states in the technical and scientific committees will be increased. this will involve scientists from all member states more closely in the authorisation procedures. as regards the list of confidential items, it is important that the manufacturing or production process is included as a confidential item. it is also necessary to keep innovative ideas included in the confidential elements. finally, the positive part of this agreement, which is risk assessment, will continue to be based on scientific evidence, but at the same time it will improve transparency in decision-making. i am only sorry that the process has not been homologated with those of the european medicines agency or the european chemicals agency. and i'm calling for a vote in favor of this deal.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i want to thank the house very much for this very lively and good debate. just to conclude, i would like to reiterate that this provisional agreement, thanks to the co—legislators, will reinforce and legitimise the important role played by the european food safety authority (efsa). that is very crucial because our people want to trust the authorities and they want to apply – and efsa has always wanted to apply – the precautionary principle and it is very important for our citizens to know this. because if you don’t trust our authorities then we can always auction the truth, politically, which is not good for anybody. also, this provisional agreement will increase transparency and will strengthen consumer confidence. so i really want to thank you for a good job, for your decisiveness on this issue. i also want to mention or reply to some of the comments concerning the products sold on our market. all the products sold on the internal market, on the european market, have to fulfil the european food safety criteria, no matter where they come from. this is another point which is very important for our consumers: that the eu is the safest market and our rules, regulations and standards also apply to the products coming from outside of europe. so once more, thank you very much for your engagement on this very important topic.
the rapporteur. madam president, i just want to thank all the speakers and the alternative rapporteurs, and thank you very much, mr katainen. and i would like to thank in particular the commission services, in particular commissioner andriukaitis - please forward this to him - the romanian presidency and the experts, and mrs sommer, who introduced this report as rapporteur. the efforts made by all of them during the negotiations have led to an agreement which, as i said, is reasonably satisfactory. the services of the three institutions have worked very hard in recent months. it has really been done in record time, as you have rightly said, and i think it is important that we recognise the work that our officials have done on this report, and i would like to thank them publicly for it.
the rapporteur. madam president, mr vice-president of the commission thank you very much for your presence ladies and gentlemen, when we embarked on the adventure of this report it did not seem possible: i found myself faced with a territorial and political division that was unsalvageable. then, in the context of the tripartite dialogues between the commission, parliament and the council, after difficult negotiations we reached a balanced agreement on 14 february. the compromise agreement, which amends the commission's initial proposal, was reached in a record time of two weeks, was approved by the majority of member states and was reconfirmed in the committee on legal affairs. and now the plenary of the european parliament has the floor. the european union introduced the supplementary protection certificate to bring and promote research in europe. approximately half of the patent life of a new treatment is lost during the research, development and regulatory processes, and the certificate helped to restore part of that patent life. but the market has evolved, ladies and gentlemen, and generics manufactured within europe have been left defenseless because, during the period of the patent and during this additional period of protection, they could neither produce nor store the protected products, even when it is exclusively for export to third countries where protection does not exist or has expired. meanwhile, in other third countries which do not have this additional period, they can do so. this means that generic producers who choose to manufacture outside europe have a competitive advantage in the rest of the world and, moreover, their products will enter our market before european generics. the innovative industry, ladies and gentlemen, is key in europe and when we talk about the strategy for europe we must inexcusably continue to defend a knowledge-based economy. let's not forget that this part of our industry invests approximately 35 billion euros in r&amp;d in europe, approves thousands of drugs and new active ingredients every year, so it's clear that our system of intellectual property incentives exists, is working to manufacture and deliver new, improved treatments to the patients who need them. but the generic biopharmaceutical industry must play a key role in europe's export performance and be one of the most competitive pillars of the union's economy, helping to restore european growth. the certificate exception is an effort to level the playing field between generic manufacturers in the union and in third countries. from now on, ladies and gentlemen, manufacturers of generics and biosimilars established in the union will be able to manufacture these products for export to third country markets where this protection does not exist or has expired, thereby helping those manufacturers to compete effectively on third country markets. this regulation will also allow these same manufacturers established in the union to store the products in the member state where they have been manufactured during the last six months of protection. the purpose is to enter the market of any member state after the expiry of the certificate, thereby helping to compete effectively in the union immediately after the expiry of the protection. we have included appropriate safeguards to not weaken our commitment to intellectual property and innovation. in this respect, manufacturers of generic and biosimilar medicinal products will be required to publish and send information to the holder of the spc, to prevent the industry from circumventing the rules of the exception, and at least three months in advance. the notification will ensure the transparency of the system and increase competition on european markets, but at the same time the regulation respects the maintenance of the confidentiality of particularly sensitive information. the adoption of this regulation will be of great benefit to the european industry and to pharmaceutical savings. the commission has estimated that by 2025 this will mean an increase in production of between eur 7.3 and 9.5 billion and the creation of between 20 000 and 25 000 jobs in the union, as well as savings in pharmaceutical expenditure of up to 4%. ladies and gentlemen, this report has not been easy. we all had to make an effort to understand the different positions until we reached a balance and a consensus. i would like to thank the speakers on the other side of the house and our collaborators who have worked so hard. i would especially like to remember my collaborator, mercedes, who worked very hard. i thank the romanian presidency for standing up to a great issue.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, very briefly i want to thank you for this good debate and once more thank and congratulate the rapporteur on a very good job. it’s been politically a very sensitive file, but the solution is a showcase of pragmatism, a very practical solution, meaning that eu generic and biosimilar producers have a level playing field vis—à—vis the other producers. at the same time, the patent protection will cover all the innovators. this is a very simple description of the solution / compromise. we will show the innovators clearly that this continent is all in favour of new innovations. we want to protect you, and at the same time we have created a level playing field for those who are producing generics and biosimilars. so this is a very good decision for our patients, for our consumers and also a very good decision for producers, for industry and innovators. thank you very much for your cooperation.
the rapporteur. madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, i thank you for your presence, your words and your rigour. i would like to reiterate my thanks to the alternative rapporteurs. there have been times in the course of this work when i have felt alone, because the alternative speakers have been very demanding. and you've done very well. they demanded that the balance be true. sometimes, in the european parliament, the need for consensus leads us to produce minor agreements simply to get ahead. it's the old story of the birthing of the mountains. with a lot of noise and sometimes the birth is a little mouse. that was not the case. the resulting product is really rigorous and serious, and it produces a balance and a position of fairness. innovators and generic manufacturers have fought to defend their legitimate interests, but in the end the victory has not been in favour of one or the other: it has been in favour of european health. i therefore wish to make a bet and a toast on the efficiency of this regulation. and, as has been said here, if that were not enough, that is why we have established this clause of review; to be able to analyse, and, if necessary, complete, rectify or modify something which i believe meets the objectives of this end of the legislature, in which i too am leaving so as not to return. but it's been an honor working with all of you.
the arrest of julian assange marks a very dark moment for freedom of information: his arrest affects us all. the data that has been made public thanks to julian assange and wikileaks, has allowed to unveil war crimes, murders of journalists and numerous human rights violations in the world. the working group on arbitrary detention found assange's detention to be unlawful. the un special rapporteur on extrajudicial executions also warned of the dangers of julian assange's extradition to the united states. today we have passed in this house a directive for the protection of leakers like julian assange. we demand that it be fulfilled. the extradition of julian assange would send a very dangerous message. those who confront corruption, those who confront the abuses of power, pay dearly. if we allow julian assange to be extradited to the united states, we are giving up a fundamental part of our democracy, we are giving up the right to information. we cannot allow that, your honours.
madam president, this monday i had an appointment with julian assange at the ecuadorian embassy in london. i didn't go, because he was arrested. but i went to that town anyway to denounce the violation of his right to asylum, in front of belmarsh prison. the right to asylum means protection from the death penalty and comprehensive protection of rights. ecuador's granting assange asylum is not just to save him from an electric chair, but to protect him from jail for exercising his right to freedom of the press in a country where he would not have a fair trial. the traitorous government of lenin moreno has sold out. and it has degraded the principle of asylum which protects the integrity of the rights of the asylum seeker, by accepting a life sentence or long decades of confinement in a us prison for someone whose crime has been to publish abuses of power and violations of human rights. the british government is not demanding guarantees from the united states on the final non-application of the death penalty, so the letters exhibited by the ecuadorian foreign ministry, in which they claim that their british counterparts cite a stipulation on non-extradition in cases of death penalty, do not constitute either a commitment or a guarantee not to extradite julian assange to the united states. the uk has never offered any guarantee of non-extradition, and we denounce in this parliament that ecuador, the uk and the us coordinated the handover of assange. what's going on, commissioner, is very serious. it attacks freedom of the press and freedom of expression. assange must not be extradited to the united states. if he's extradited, any whistleblower journalist is in danger. in danger for exposing injustice, corruption and abuse of power.
madam president, we must continue to work within the european institutions to ensure that the free movement of workers in the union is accompanied by the guarantee of workers' rights. it is regrettable that a qualified majority was not achieved in the council, as the proposal included positive aspects such as the increase in the export period for unemployment benefits, which would facilitate job search and enhance labour mobility, the improvement of european coordination of long-term care benefits and the preservation of the principle of equal treatment which avoids indexation of dependent child benefits. i would also consider it important that the specificities of highly mobile sectors be respected, which must be taken into account when legislating. and in conclusion, as today is my last speech in this house, i would like to say goodbye and thank you for these ten years. a lot of work has been done, with consensus between the various groups, and this has enabled us - and i am referring specifically to the employment committee - to carry out a great deal of work in favour of the most disadvantaged, an effort unknown in many cases to european citizens. i only hope that this harmony will continue to exist in the next legislature, because it is important if we are to achieve a stronger and more united union.
madam president, commissioner, i am very concerned about this debate. the continuity and respect of the social rights of workers, to avoid fraud, unfair competition, cases of lack of rights, legal uncertainties, is our obligation. i'll give you several examples. mobility for the galicians is called emigration: the galician seamen who paid their dues in norway and who are still waiting this year to collect their social benefits - a salute to them, long hope; the galician and northern portuguese workers who go from one place to another and who often have complex social situations; the emigrants who return from other european states, and also from switzerland, who return to our country and for whom neither illnesses nor social benefits are recognized. the mobility of labour in my country is called emigration, i insist on this, commissioner, and that is why i have tabled several parliamentary questions on these three problems, and that is why we must work to achieve this equality of treatment.
mr president, prime minister, it is the very end of the mandate of this european parliament, and it’s time to show respect to your powerful pro-european speech. it is time to show gratitude to this round of debates with heads of government and prime ministers within the european parliament, and it is even time to salute the work of president jean-claude juncker, who gave you a warm response of high quality. but i still have two points to raise having heard your statements. first, you talked about not fighting populism, but the root causes of populism. it’s not incompatible. you have said it live. when you hear such demagoguery nonsense, simplistic nonsense, here live in this european parliament, do we not have to fight back? second, you talked about migration. yes, we’ve got to strengthen the external borders of the european union, but you didn’t say a word about solidarity, which is also a mandate of the treaty of the european union – solidarity among member states when it comes to handling together with a common management both migration fluxes and asylum seekers.
mr president, it is a real pleasure to see this prime minister, who was an excellent colleague, but not only that. i must say, krišjānis kariņš, that you left a mark in this parliament when you were coordinator, when you were in charge of so many different dossiers, and so on and so forth. but what is most important today is you left a vision of the european union – about the past, the about the present, and most importantly about where we go and how we go. and in that path, in that way, you very rightly mentioned the role to be played by the common market – more specifically, the digital single market. you mentioned the barriers that we have, and as we know, the main barrier is normally in the council. the most reluctant institution in the european union is not the commission; it is not the parliament: it is the council, when it comes to the breaking of these barriers. now you have a privileged position in the council. you have a seat in the council and you can be a strong voice for really going forward, moving forward and ending this barrier. good luck! (applause)
mr president, mr prime minister, during this term we have been able to work together, and i say this in my last speech in this house. to work together to make a more integrated, more competitive and more decarbonised electricity market, together with the commission and commissioner cañete. working together to have legislation that addresses the challenges of climate change, which is the great threat that the planet has, getting a very ambitious energy efficiency directive, because we know that the energy that is not consumed is the cleanest energy. we must work together on the renewable energy directive to try to get more penetration, and of course more decarbonisation, in sectors that pollute a lot like transport, cooling and heating. we must work together to reduce emissions and therefore have a global legislative framework in the european union that makes us the first global players to have ambitious regulation in the fight against climate change. europe has a future if we tackle the great challenges, as we have done in this parliament with the challenge of climate change. thank you very much, mr. prime minister, for your contribution.
the rapporteur. mr president, i will be brief. i would like to thank the house for this result, which i am sure will be to the benefit of european health. i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their demanding collaboration, which was natural and which contributed to this consensus result. i want to thank the whole house on the day i leave, after 15 years, for their collaboration and their work. i want to say to all the members, irrespective of their group or ideas, that it has been an honour for me to be in this house. i want to make a profession of faith in europe, which i always dreamed of and which has not disappointed me in this time. and i want, let me finally thank my collaborators of these years. they have been an essential part of my work. in my memory for their work, for their loyalty, my thanks to ana, to mercedes, to macarena, to alexandra. thank you all so much. i'll see you later. (applause) i would like to thank
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, this legislature, which is now coming to an end, has been marked by the abandonment of any semblance of humanity on the part of those who govern europe, by promoting policies based on the death of migrants at sea, their enslavement and torture in detention centres and deportations to countries where there is no guarantee that their rights will be respected. this is very hard, but it is. this is the european union. legal and safe routes for their arrival have not been established; humanitarian visas have not been facilitated and a rescue corps at sea has not been created. moreover, ngos have been prohibited from carrying out these rescue operations. those responsible for these policies should one day be brought to justice for the at least 18 297 deaths that have occurred in the last five years in the mediterranean sea. its border closure policies, which force migrants to risk their lives at sea, have killed an average of ten people a day, and the regulation being adopted today is the culmination of these inhuman practices. the european border and coast guard is a paramilitary force of 10,000 men, with an annual budget of almost 2 billion euros to secure borders, to carry out deportations, to detain migrants, to lock them up in detention centres. it is the armed arm of the european commission to ensure that no one sets foot in europe; it is the dream of the far right, made real by social democrats, conservatives and liberals.
mr president, commissioner, i congratulate roberta on a job well done, but remember that the most relevant proposals in the immigration and asylum package are still stalled in the council and in the trilogues. it is therefore good that we are voting today on this regulation, to give the european border and coast guard greater capabilities; it is essential to give this tool the necessary capabilities to ensure integrated management with a view to managing migration effectively and ensuring a high level of security within the union, while safeguarding the free movement of persons. the creation of a 10,000-strong border guard corps, support to member states on return or the strengthening of cooperation with third countries are key operational capabilities to ensure robust and continuous assistance to both host countries and countries of origin and transit. the agency is today, together with europol, one of the cornerstones of ensuring an area of freedom, security and justice in the union. it is therefore essential that we in the european parliament continue to work towards providing the agency with greater and better operational and budgetary capacities. there is also a guarantee that the guard is subordinate to and bound by the law of the sea, international humanitarian law and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
mr president, this parliament will go down in history for the shame of the 18 000 deaths in the mediterranean, according to the international organisation for migration. and i think we have ended it in the worst possible way: with the reform of the dublin regulation, the reform of the blocked asylum regulation and now creating this new regulation on the european border and coast guard, pouring billions of euros into it, without having a clear mechanism for safeguarding fundamental rights, and at the same time without a clear search and rescue mandate in the mediterranean - as, by the way, this parliament had asked for in its negotiating mandate and as it had asked for, on repeated occasions, in many votes. in the end, governments criminalize ngos, like the ship open arms, which has not been allowed to leave the port of barcelona. today, she was allowed to sail, but only to deliver humanitarian aid, not to go rescue people in the mediterranean. we criminalize ngos and at the same time we don't do a specific public search and rescue mission. an urgent task for the next legislature will be to end this shame and radically change policies.
mr president, commissioner avramopoulos, i am a spanish socialist, a european and a europeanist. i recognize and respect the objectives of the area of freedom, justice and security. among these is an integrated management of the external borders, which is served by the european border and coast guard agency with a new capacity, with fifteen thousand personnel, with even exorbitant funding, and which the socialists have helped to improve by introducing amendments to prevent it from taking part in return operations to third countries and to strengthen its mandate of linking with fundamental rights and with international humanitarian law and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union which is in force. but believe me, the taste in the mouth at the end of the legislature is bitter too, because of the imbalance towards the security vector to the detriment of the humanitarian one. for not having seen solidarity with the southern border of the european union, with spain, now in need. and also because the asylum package has not been implemented, the right of asylum has not been renewed, and the dublin regulation, which the council has blocked, is still pending. the task for the next european parliament.
mr president, commissioner avramopoulos, you know that it has been a great honour to have worked for many years on the dossier, on the legislative issue, on european law - nothing less than the european visa regulation, the new european visa code, which is returning to this european parliament for final debate and vote. we have completed years of hard work, in which i have to thank, as is customary in this parliament, the alternative rapporteurs, who have cooperated effectively and loyally in the conduct of this european law; and, of course, you yourself, commissioner avramopoulos, for your punctual follow-up and your dedication to the legislative affairs of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. we have listened intently at various seminars and hearings - the parliamentary hearings we practise in committee - to the so-called stakeholders - the representatives of legitimate interests - on this great legislative issue, which fulfils a major objective of the area of freedom, justice and security that we were talking about a minute ago when we were discussing the european border and coast guard: an integrated management of the union's external borders that ensures the free movement of persons within the european union, but at the same time provides the necessary legislative instruments to harmonise the conditions for authorisation to enter the european union. entry also for lawful and legitimate purposes: what we call 'good faith travellers', people who come for short stays - between 90 and 180 days maximum - for tourism, business, artistic activities, sports, study or research. and all these situations have been covered in this european regulation on visas after a very detailed work of integrating all the amendments and positions that have been heard. we have finally achieved a reasonable balance in order to ensure the same conditions for authorizing access to the territory of the european union, visa fees - and therefore the price for obtaining entry authorization - application forms, list of documents supporting entry... and of course i have tried, against all odds, to preserve the objective that was at stake: better facilitation, easier access to the european union for the bona fide traveller, for the bona fide entrant. and this is important, particularly considering that i come from a country which receives millions and millions and millions of tourists a year; i come from a community, an outermost region - the canaries - which receives 18 million tourists a year and therefore it is extremely important to maintain the purpose of facilitating entry, access to the schengen area. some of the amendments we have managed to balance in the final text of the law are those relating to the visa fee: between 60 and 80 euros to adapt it to the real costs, with a reduction for those under 18, for those under 6, and with exceptions for students, researchers and also artists and sportsmen. we have established a commitment on health insurance for the commission to review within 15 months of the entry into force of the new european law, and we have also established a reasonable balance of interests on the deadlines for obtaining visas, so that it is easier and also cheaper, taking into account that buying airline tickets well in advance facilitates access to the european union for people who apply for visas well in advance. but finally i would like to refer to the importance of preserving facilitation over the safety-focused approach, because there has been a contamination of the access of bona fide travellers to the european union with the fight against irregular immigration and against terrorism, which has nothing to do with access for lawful purposes to the european union. finally, in the face of the attempt to impose a mechanical link with the return of irregular immigrants, we have struck a balance, so that the category of positive incentives to third countries cooperating in the prevention of irregular immigration has been established, so that european law is as well received as possible by the member states.
i would like to congratulate mr juan fernando. the establishment of a common visa regime is not only relevant to security and the prevention of irregular immigration but is also essential for the proper functioning of many important economic sectors. for example, tourism, which is of particular importance for many regions of europe. in 2017 alone, almost 14 million short-stay schengen visas were issued. more flexible procedures, such as electronic processing with up to six months' notice for applications, the possibility to apply for multiple-entry visas with extended validity, the allocation of more resources to strengthen security or improved cooperation on readmission are some of the improvements in visa policy. the agreed changes will boost tourism, trade and business, while enhancing security and reducing the risks of illegal exploitation. it is essential that any improvements to the common visa policy be made in accordance with the specifications required by the sis and the vis in order to facilitate the implementation of interoperability in the information systems. mr. president, i'm leaving too. it's 35 years of public life that i want to sum up in one word: thank you. or two, thank you very much. see you around. and thank you, from the bottom of my heart.
the rapporteur. mr president, i am grateful for the constructive tone which has dominated the vast majority of the speeches announcing a vote in favour. i am aware that this instrument, this new european law, will respond to the seventy, eighty, ninety million people who visit the european union regularly for legitimate purposes every year, from more than one hundred and fifty countries. but it is true that the work of the european parliament is never done. and so, of course, there are unfinished business. among them is the need to respond to the humanitarian needs of those who, fleeing from despair or persecution, are trying to reach the territory of the european union and are unable to do so regularly, so that they risk their lives in the process, exposing themselves to illicit trafficking and exploitation of people. that is the aim of the humanitarian visa which was voted for by this european parliament by a qualified majority and to which the commission is obliged to respond. we will be vigilant in this european parliament in the next legislature and in the next mandate of the commission so that the commission gives an answer to that demand for at least a legal way, a regular way so that desperate people who flee persecution and are exposed to illicit trafficking can access the territory of the european union for a simple reason: because they had no legal or regular way to try without losing their lives in the endeavour, or the lives of their loved ones. thank you, mr president. thank you to all the colleagues in this debate for your very constructive contributions. thank you, again.
madam president, now that the legislature is coming to an end, i would like to quote rule 7 of the rules of procedure of this house to make us worry about the situation of two former members of the european parliament from the greens/european free alliance political group. they've been in prison for over 500 days. their names are raül romeva i rueda and oriol junqueras. the latter is spitzenkandidat to the european commission for the european free alliance.
rapporteur. – madam president, it will only be a minute, because this is the final vote of an important piece of european law – the visa code – serving the area of liberty, justice and security, and with this occasion it is customary here to take the occasion before the plenary with all of the members sitting here to express gratitude for the good, constructive cooperation throughout the years, because it has been – wow! – quite a time. it’s been four years of hard work for the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe), which pushed it forward under the leadership of our colleague and chair of the libe committee, claude moraes. but since this is also the last plenary session of this mandate of the european parliament, it is also customary to express publicly how great it has been to serve the european citizens in this house, which happens to be the only democratically-elected institution of the european architecture, and of course to take the occasion to wish everybody the very best, with all of my heart, and to say publicly that it’s been my honour to work with you all for the past five years. thank you all, dear colleagues, thank you all. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur and all the alternative rapporteurs on the work they have done. this proposal should bring two key virtues to the shared objective of reducing transport emissions by 20% by 2025: realism and clarity. both are necessary to put into perspective a discourse on diesel which has two perverse effects: it prevents us from reducing emissions while genuinely efficient zero-emission vehicles are being developed. and it does so at a huge social cost. because the sales crisis in the automotive industry is already causing job cuts. and because it is conducive to the non-renewal of a mobile fleet that is much more polluting than the one that can replace it today. and that it must lead an orderly and feasible transition to zero-emission mobility. predictability and realism is also to recognise that we cannot fail to set clear targets for reducing emissions. other countries, where our manufacturers sell, are doing it. foreseeability and realism should thus help individuals, professionals and businesses to plan their investments with certainty and to ensure that they can pay back their investments appropriately. that is why this regulation, in addition to combating this sales crisis, should stimulate the industrial policy we need to accelerate the transition to zero-emission vehicles. also, intelligent intermodality, enabling each mode of transport to make its best contribution to the union's mobility in terms of energy, environmental and social efficiency. and finally, the emergence of new formulas for access to the use of vehicles. because in some member states, like mine, the average age of cars has gone from 8 years in 2007 to 12.4 years in 2017 (62% over 10 years old), and it's close to 13 years for vans. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the road network is not affected by the accident.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, as greta thunberg was saying yesterday here in the european parliament, our house is on fire. this is a climate emergency and it's time to move to ambitious action now. the transport sector is still one of the most polluting and emission-intensive sectors. today we have agreed to improve this sector, obliging all member states to make almost 20% of their public vehicle fleets - whether buses, for example, or garbage trucks - cleaner. this is certainly progress, but - as greta thunberg also reminded us yesterday - in the face of the climate emergency, it is not about doing the best, it is about doing the best we can. what we need is a real revolution in the transport and mobility sector, that is, a revolution for health and climate. let's follow the example of cities like valencia or madrid, which are leading the transition to sustainable, fossil-free mobility. madrid, for example, will have a fleet of 100 percent eco-friendly buses as early as next year. and it has managed to improve the quality of the air that all its neighbors breathe with the plan "madrid central". this is the road to all of europe. it's possible that he did.
member of the commission. – madam president, i will start this speech with a bit of sentiment because this is the last plenary for me in this term. i have had so many over the five years. working on many different topics, with ms evelyn regner, mr pascual de grandes, and many others, i always felt the necessary, useful and so vitally important portion of synergy and political will: synergy of expertise and common sense and a synergy in understanding what it is necessary to do. this company law package is, i think, a very good example. it is very complex and, according to what i heard from knowledgeable people, many of them didnʼt believe that we would come up with it and push it through. so at this moment we are at the end of a very difficult but – i believe – successful road. the eu’s single market offers many opportunities for companies to move and grow. however, often companies cannot make use of them in practice. the commission proposal responded to long-standing calls from the european parliament, trade unions and business organisations for rules in this area. and, of course, i have to very warmly thank the rapporteur, ms evelyn regner, and the council presidencies for their constructive approach and efficient work on this very important and complex proposal. i am very pleased that the european parliament and the council found a good and pragmatic compromise which can considerably improve the situation for both companies and their employees. the directive will enable companies to move and reorganise in the eu single market while providing necessary safeguards for employees and other stakeholders. the commission welcomes the mandatory character of the anti-abuse measures, an important issue for the european parliament and many stakeholders. the commission also welcomes the agreed provisions on employees’ rights, which include many of the issues raised in the european parliament’s position. the four-fifths threshold for starting negotiations in all three cross—border operations, the mandatory character of such negotiations and the provisions to protect the negotiated solution in the event of subsequent operations provide a very complete and comprehensive package of safeguards. in addition, the new article on information and consultation emphasises and specifies the employees’ rights to have a say in a cross-border operation, which was also essential for this house. remembering the divergent positions when the negotiations started, the commission would like to congratulate the co-legislators on the solutions found. the compromise strikes a good balance and represents a huge step forward compared with the current situation. it provides solid and fair rules for all parties involved in cross-border operations, while not making the procedure too cumbersome in practice. therefore, the commission can fully support the compromise and is looking forward to tomorrow’s vote. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner jourová, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking the council for its rigorous work and for the rigorous, determined and difficult work carried out by my friend, though an adversary, evelyn regner. the people's group has supported the commission with this directive, since its main objective is to facilitate the development of freedom of establishment for enterprises, especially smes. the aim is to provide a predictable legal framework in an increasingly globalised world, without endangering or jeopardising the rights of workers, creditors and shareholders. the new harmonised procedures therefore also include the safeguards necessary to protect the rights of all. this directive, ladies and gentlemen, is based on the need to respond to the evolution of the case law of the european court of justice on the freedom of establishment, enshrined in article 49 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. we have always advocated that companies established in one member state should have the right and freedom to move their headquarters to another without losing their legal personality. this right, ladies and gentlemen, can be exercised even if the company does not carry on any economic activity in the host state. however, we also believe, as does the rapporteur and the council, that it is appropriate to include an anti-abuse clause as a limit for the cross-border operation to take place and thus prevent fraudulent behaviour with no other objective than to abuse the system and our market unit. i therefore personally emphasized, as the rapporteur knows, that companies should have to justify, among other things, whether they had received public aid, since we see every day cases of companies which, after receiving an economic incentive, decide to leave the country, thus taking advantage of the system and leaving workers helpless. we know something about that in spain. we have also succeeded in introducing a strong ex post control of the movement, which makes it possible to verify that there is no fraud and to validate the transaction through a thorough procedure which also guarantees the parties adequate protection in the single market. the result, ladies and gentlemen, is positive, provided that it does not undermine the freedom of establishment, which has always been our priority, because we want a united europe without frontiers, and it is our responsibility to ensure that.
author. mr president, i should like to begin by saying that this is not so much an oral question at the end of the legislature as a political complaint which this parliament wishes to make to the council and the commission. and it is a political complaint about what we consider to be a lack of loyal cooperation, a lack of institutional cooperation between the council, the commission and parliament, which i think is very serious. to begin by recalling the facts, i have to say that article 226 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union already gave the european parliament the legislative initiative to regulate the powers of the committees of inquiry in 2009, when the treaty of lisbon was adopted. i would remind you that the european parliament has only legislative initiative in two areas: the european electoral law and the regulation of committees of inquiry. the text was already adopted in 2012 - three years later - with david martin as rapporteur, who started negotiations with the council and the commission in the previous legislature; no agreement was reached and in 2014 the text was adopted at first reading, albeit without the agreement of the commission and the council. when i was appointed rapporteur at the beginning of this term, in 2015, i started trying to negotiate with the council and the commission a text that would be approved by all three institutions. and the fact is, ladies and gentlemen - and here begins my political complaint - that we have not been able to get the council and the commission to meet parliament in an institutional trilogue, in a reasonable political dialogue to establish a text which would allow for a regulation to regulate the powers of this house in the matter of committees of inquiry. this is my complaint; and there have been many working papers, many manifestations of flexibility that we have shown to the council and the commission. they have always asked us: 'make a new text yourselves.' and finally, we did it. after nine months of meetings between the legal services of the commission, the council and the european parliament, we finally drew up a new text - we call it a 'non-paper' - on the basis of this technical work, presented it to the council and the reply was, as always, a letter in which legal objections, legal objections, concerns were expressed to us. in the end, there was always a procedural response with a political content of resignation or non-acceptance of this negotiation. and this is the reason for the complaint. the complaint is that the council and the commission have not worked with us, have not wanted to have a dialogue, have not wanted to negotiate and have despised parliament; they have humiliated it, ladies and gentlemen. this is my sincere reflection, along with the deep disappointment i still have at having worked for four years together with the afco committee, together with the alternative rapporteurs, together with president hübner to try to negotiate this. and it hasn't been possible. and the problem, ladies and gentlemen, is not just a procedural problem, it is not just a political complaint that the negotiations have not been successful. the basic problem is that the commission and the council do not accept that there are committees of inquiry which carry out inquiries which are bothersome or inconvenient for the member states, for the members of the commission, for the members of the governments of the national states, and so on and so forth. i think that the commissioner has a right to be concerned about the situation in the member states. and there is fear because - and this is the problem - it is not accepted that parliament should exercise such an important power as that of committees of inquiry, which is absolutely essential in modern parliamentarism, in parliamentarism of the 21st century. it is not reasonable that this parliament should be denied a power given to it by the treaty of lisbon and that in the 21st century - in which there are a lot of social alarm issues that cause mismanagement or problems of breach of the rule of law, etc. - this parliament should not be able to investigate, when we are the direct representatives of the people, in order to be able to respond to the social alarm that certain events produce. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we shall adopt a resolution which is very tough, but very fair. it is a very critical resolution to the council and the commission, but it is very necessary, ladies and gentlemen. i would like to say to them: we are going to take this complaint to the president of parliament so that it can be addressed to the presidents of the member states at council meetings, we are taking it to the spitzenkandidaten of the political families so that they know that there is a political complaint here; we are asking the new presidency to come in a few months to deal with this problem, because this problem is on the table and it is essential to deal with it so that the european parliament is what it should be, a parliament that represents the european people.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, as we approach the end of the term, it is indeed an appropriate moment to discuss the important issue of the exercise, of its inquiry powers by the european parliament, and take stock of recent events. let me start by assuring you that the council has always shared the view that committees of inquiry are an important instrument, allowing the european parliament to exercise political control in a union founded on the values of respect for democracy and the rule of law, as required by the treaty. since the martin report in 2011, the council has been examining a series of proposals in a very constructive spirit and in the respect of its duty of sincere cooperation. however, as is well known, the martin report raised serious legal and institutional concerns in the council and in the commission with regard to the limits imposed by article 226 of the treaty. indeed, this proposal for so far-reaching an extension of the rights of committees of inquiry was considered contrary to article 226. despite subsequent efforts to reconcile the diverse positions, such as the more recent work by the experts of the three legal services at technical level which held so many meetings, the progress made on some less problematic provisions resulting from this work did not match and did not solve the most complex issues of a legal and political nature. as was stated in a letter sent to ms hübner on 25 october last year by the austrian presidency, the council therefore welcomed the non-paper prepared by the rapporteur, mr jáuregui atondo, representing a new attempt to revive the political dialogue among the three institutions. the non-paper indeed contains a number of improvements compared to the proposal of 2014. it meets some of the concerns expressed by the council on previous occasions and takes up some of the solutions which are jointly suggested by the legal experts of the three institutions. however, the non-paper still contains a number of provisions which give rise to serious legal and political concerns for the council, which were raised on many past occasions. in substance, the council’s position on these fundamental issues has not changed since the martin report, and to be more specific, let me mention, among the most problematic issues, this power to summon individuals who are not officials as witnesses and to enforce such a measure by sanctions; the hearing of officials and other servants of the union as witnesses; the power to request documents from natural or legal persons who have no role in the implementation of union law; and the imposition of sanctions in the event of non-compliance. and finally, the provisions on sanctions. let me recall that criminal law in the rules on criminal procedure are matters for which the member states are responsible. the competences of the union in that field are very limited. i will not go into more detail here, as you are, i hope, very familiar with the council’s concerns, which i explained in a detailed manner in the letter i have already mentioned. since the beginning of its term, the romanian presidency has been ready to continue to clarify the respective positions, also in the commission, building upon the austrian presidency’s engagement in the many informal contacts between our predecessors and mr jáuregui and mrs hübner. i can assure you that the council continues to be open to a constructive dialogue with the european parliament in order to explore ways forward on this legally and politically-complex file. should the new parliament wish to carry on the work based on the progress made so far, the council stands ready to do so in full respect of its duty of sincere cooperation.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me first welcome this occasion offered by this oral question to set out the commission’s positions regarding the proposal for the regulation on the european parliament’s right of inquiry. while it is of course for the parliament to make a proposal, the procedure also requires the consent of the council and of the commission. since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the european parliament has made several proposals for such a regulation. the latest informal proposal, in the form of a non-paper proposal, was politically endorsed by the committee on constitutional affairs in april last year and transmitted to the commission and to the council in may last year. the commission acknowledges that the new informal proposal is drafted in more precise legal terms and incorporates several improvements: for instance, as regards the rules on the setting-up of the committee of inquiry, the procedural rules applying to its investigation or the introduction of a central contact point for inquiry. the new informal proposal also contains references to the regulation on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by eu institutions, and to the framework agreement between the european parliament and the european commission. however, the non-paper proposal still contains a number of legal and institutional concerns that have been at the heart of this discussion with the parliament and the council since 2012. the most important concerns are: sanctions for non-compliance with the provisions of the regulations; certain aspects of the investigative means which would be in the hands of the committee, such as on-the-spot investigations, hearings of commissioners and former commissioners, hearings of officials and former officials, as well as hearings of natural persons; the newly introduced rule regarding remedies in the case of violation of the provisions of the regulation by a committee of inquiry, its members and officials and other servants of the european parliament; and last, provisions which seem to grant discretionary power to the parliament with regard to the suspension of the committee proceedings during the related court procedure. notwithstanding these concerns, i would like to stress the commission’s continued willingness and commitment to engage in a constructive trilateral discussion, with a view to finding appropriate solutions to the divergences that still exist between the three institutions. the future regulation of the right of inquiry should provide the european parliament with the appropriate instrument to fully respect institutional prerogatives and the relevant legal frameworks of the member states.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr ciamba, i think you have not heard us. we have said, over and over again over the years, to those who have played the same role as you - and as mr jauregui has just said to you - that we are talking about a lack of loyal cooperation. nothing about loyal cooperation. let's start by putting things in their place. we have lacked the capacity in this parliament during this term to do a better job on the panama papers, including on dieselgate or the special committee on terrorism. because you wanted to block this possibility. if mr jauregui, who has in his dna the capacity for pure negotiation and reaching consensus, has not been able to do so, it is because of your lack of cooperation. so let's start telling it like it is. we have been operating for 25 years with a decision that has become old and small. this is not the parliament of 1995, and we need those prerogatives which you, for various reasons, do not want to grant to this parliament. and they're wrong. because we lose credibility. because we need to be able to develop that right of inquiry. it is not fair, it is not decent that sister institutions such as the council and the european commission should hold the hands of the european parliament - which represents five hundred million europeans who directly elect their representatives in this house - when it is exercising the functions conferred upon it. and this is one of those that we have the right to develop. it is not fair that mr jauregui has worked for five years, as has the chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs, mrs danuta hübner, and the secretariat of the afco committee. it's not fair. we got the door slammed in our faces. so all i can say is that there has been no due diligence on your part and that i thank mr jáuregui, in the last debate in this house, for his work. it's an honor to have worked with you and to have known you for thirty years.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, for us, investeu should be first and foremost an instrument to achieve progress towards a sustainable economy. in that sense, we celebrate the increase of the climate spending targets for the sustainable infrastructure window and the need for climate proofing. we definitely have to be determined to accomplish the paris agreement and sdgs. we expect investeu to abide by the principle of sustainable investments. with this in mind, this parliament has made it clear that coal, nuclear and gas infrastructure cannot be considered sustainable investments. it’s therefore imperative that we find the political will to encourage the financial sector to help finance projects that are key to the transition towards a green economy. moreover, we strongly oppose the funding of defence projects using investeu. there are far more pressing, immediate social and environmental concerns that require our attention. but coming back to the positive, i welcome a stronger participation of national and regional promotional banks, as these are a key factor for a better earmarking of projects due to their knowledge of their local markets, economic and social agents, and their needs. finally, i thank the rapporteurs for their good work.
mr president, commissioner, five years ago the socialists ran for the european elections demanding an end to austerity, to austerity policies and calling for the need to boost demand, to boost investment to solve that crisis. we have achieved this - and we are grateful for the support of the commission, of course, and of the other groups involved in the launch of the juncker plan, which has been fundamental in fighting, as i said, against the crisis in recent years. and i think it's important to recognise the step we are taking now to create a permanent instrument - this new invest europe, investeu - that aims to maintain and boost investment across the union on a permanent basis, which is important at this time when we are debating this possible secular stagnation. but we cannot forget, we cannot fail to remember that the juncker plan was designed to have an anti-cyclical policy against recession, and that europe still needs an instrument to have exactly that policy, an anti-cyclical policy.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the case of china and the repression of religious and ethnic minorities is a perfect example of the need for the eu to be consistent and strong when defending human rights, no matter how big, how powerful or how strategic the country where violations of human rights occur is. human rights are universal, and human rights violations are not more or less severe depending on the size of the country or its economic or political power. whenever they happen and wherever they happen, we need to be vocal and we need to act consequently. regretfully, too many minority groups, national, religious or linguistic minorities are discriminated against and persecuted across the world just because they want to preserve their own identities and cultures. we must never turn a blind eye to assimilation policies usually carried out in the name of national greatness. countries that impose on their people one identity, one language, one culture, or one religion might be big but they are not great.
author. mr president, in cameroon the armed forces are accused of committing serious human rights violations against the civilian population. they are also accused of arbitrarily detaining protesters who denounced irregularities during the last elections. in the english-speaking regions, the army shot unarmed protesters from a helicopter, causing dozens of deaths. there is evidence that european weapons have been used to extrajudicially execute dozens of people. there are videos showing how cameroonian military have murdered two women and their babies, on suspicion of belonging to boko haram. member states, such as spain, are selling arms to the country, despite it being prohibited by the 2008 council common position. but this has not been mentioned in this text. the european union and its member states are providing military training and logistical assistance, as well as military and security training and equipment, to cameroon. aid has been suspended by other countries, such as the united states, precisely because of the flagrant violations of human rights committed in cameroon. we demand that the european union prohibit military advice and the sale of arms and military equipment to cameroon, because as long as respect for human rights is only in words and not in deeds, we will be accomplices in its crimes. and we cannot be, your honours.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, as we all know, paul biya happens to be one of the longest-serving rulers in the whole of africa, competing with robert mugabe of zimbabwe, and now only with teodor obiang in equatorial guinea – the seventh election leading to massive demonstrations against rigged elections – and maurice kamto, the leader of the mouvement pour la renaissance du cameroun was detained and is now in prison facing charges, which could lead in a military court to nothing less than a life sentence or the death penalty. so we urge, first of all, that this violence, harassment and banning of demonstrations be stopped. we urge credible, transparent and free elections through electoral reform. we urge the european union, along with the african union and the united nations, to exert a role of mediation in order to secure the release not only of maurice kamto but also of 200 political party followers, who were also detained. finally, of course, we urge the european union to take measures in order to scale down the level of cooperation with a country which does not behave democratically.
mr president, my colleagues have defined very well what the cruelty that is going to be imposed on brunei more and more every day means. but brunei is an extreme example - it is true - but it is one more example of many places in the world where freedoms and rights are going backwards, and the theory that relativizes the universal value of human rights is dangerously advancing. this is also my last speech in this house and i would like to leave a message on behalf of all those who in the most difficult places in the world are fighting for dignity, fighting for life, fighting for freedom. i hope that this house will never forget those people who are far away but who represent precisely the values that we defend here. we are sometimes few in the human rights debates. i hope that more and more members of this house will join in that defence. but above all, when we rise in this chamber, in this luxurious chamber, let us not forget the prisons, let us not forget the refugees who drown at sea, let us not forget the women who fight for their rights. let us not forget the homosexuals who are being massacred in many countries, let us not forget the values on which this european union is built.
mr president, one part of my work here in parliament was also working for the defence of human rights and persons without a voice in europe. thank you to ms mogherini also for her commitment to the defence of human rights. we need to stand up for human rights. we need to condemn these attacks on human rights and fight against the death penalty and discrimination around the world, also in europe. the difficult situation of brunei against homophobia needs our dignity and freedom to defend these people. they are alone. i belong to the lgbti intergroup of the european parliament, and i am proud of that because the defence of persons around the world is also our responsibility. the fight for human rights around the world should be the fight for the freedom, for the respect and also for the dignity of human beings. thank you to all the colleagues for the defence of human rights. this is my last current intervention to you but i will be back!
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, we ask that the resolution on venezuela be withdrawn from the agenda. let us continue the debate if we think it necessary, but at a time like the one we are living right now, with a new process of dialogue being promoted by norway, where all the actors are involved, where the negotiations are moving forward - even the pope has supported them - this parliament has the opportunity to stop making resolutions, to not try to interfere in the politics of venezuela and to show itself as a fundamental actor in the defence of dialogue, in the defence of peace, and thus to be able to help, without any doubt, by the only way by which we will achieve a stable and beneficial situation for the people of venezuela.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. we again consider it important to include the mercosur treaty as a point on wednesday's agenda, a treaty which has been negotiated for more than 20 years in an opaque manner; a treaty which will undoubtedly have an impact on many organisations, in many countries, on many farmers.
madam president, public health is at the heart of the welfare state and a just society. for quality health care, human capital is critical. unfortunately, in many parts of europe and particularly in some regions of spain, nursing is subject to a wild temporality. in galicia, my homeland, nurses, but also other healthcare workers, are victims of abuse in hiring by the regional government, the xunta de galicia. this situation has led groups like enfermeiras eventuais in loita to organize to denounce abuses, such as a nurse being forced to sign more than five hundred contracts in ten years, many of them for hours. it is an unacceptable situation that mistreats a profession essential to providing care for our families. that is why, in my first speech to this house, i want to defend the role of nursing in europe, of millions, of hundreds of thousands of professionals, and to demand respect and decent and fair working conditions for these professionals.
madam president, i want to congratulate ms von der leyen on an excellent speech and on an excellent process over the last couple of weeks, working with renew europe to include our priorities in her programme. i want to say to the greens and to mr eickhout, yes, i think there has been change over the last weeks and i think we have to recognise this change. i don’t think it’s wavering, i think there is a recognition here that there is a challenge which europe is facing – a challenge that comes from those sides which want europe to fail, from populists and nationalists who see the frustration and the anxieties that our citizens feel, and who offer this feeling of control and the sense that, well, if we just get back the walls and we divide our countries again then we will recover control and it will be better. ms von der leyen knows that is the wrong alternative, she understands those anxieties and she has shown over these weeks that she can work with us to build a better europe, to build a europe that responds to our concerns on democratisation, to all our concerns on the climate, on digitalisation, on the frustration that our citizens feel with how the euro crisis was resolved or not well resolved. for that reason i think this is the moment when all of us here need to make an effort and say, well, maybe not everything is there in this package, but it’s the moment to come together and say ‘no’ to populism and nationalism and ‘yes’ to a better europe that ms von der leyen is offering us today.
i have to say, madam president, the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i myself come from a militarily neutral country, austria, and as a green and a campaigner for a peace union, i am very critical of the pesco military union and the european defence fund and also of the debate on an eu army or an army for europeans, as you like to call it. a majority of eu citizens also see defence as a priority for the eu, rather than climate change, social issues, health or education, and a majority of eu citizens also believe that the eu should rely more on diplomatic and humanitarian measures than on military measures to manage crises and conflicts in the world. we therefore believe that it is the wrong way to go about increasing substantially the eu's defence spending with the arms fund, where we lack the money for social and climate action. we don't need billions for armaments, madam secretary, we need billions for climate and social issues. i therefore ask you, as president of the commission, whether you will be credibly committed to a disarmament initiative, to limiting defence spending in favour of social and climate protection measures and to binding arms export controls.
madam president, mrs von der leyen, we are really concerned to see that, in the end, there is practically no difference between a candidate timmermans and a candidate von der leyen. we have seen how you have spoken today, always seeking the satisfaction of the left, the liberals, the socialists, to whom you have written explaining the project you have. but he hasn't explained it to the other side. and that is where the real seriousness of what is happening at the moment lies: that you have already, for the time being, applied this health belt to some of the europeans. we are seeing a roll being imposed that punishes people who elect governments that some do not like. and that is very, very dangerous. and we also see how those parties elected by the people are punished here, with a policy and an opinion that some people do not like, that the majority that has been created here does not like, in that consensus where you and timmermans are the same, are practically the same, and they are only trying to marginalise one party. and you say that you will always be facing those who are against unity. but i think that there is really no worse attack on the unity of the european union and parliament than these cordon sanitaire measures which undermine the whole democratic spirit, undermine the rules and, finally, undermine all the illusion of making a common project.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. that is what this parliament will do if it adopts the umpteenth resolution on venezuela tomorrow. this chamber, with antonio tajani at the head, recognized the self-proclaimed juan guaidó as president of a country that even if you dont like it has a democratically elected government and president. the coup attempt failed and just as guaidó is sitting at the negotiating table in barbados, the pressures are back. you are following the road map drawn up by the united states to overthrow maduro. but not everything is worth it. the european union must respect international law, not interfere in the sovereign decisions of the people, and lift sanctions. they say they are concerned for the venezuelan people, but they are demanding measures that will cause them even more suffering. mrs mogherini, stop threatening sanctions and keep calling for dialogue and moderation, please. the european union must be committed to dialogue and let the venezuelan people decide their future. in other words, the european union should act in a democratic way.
mr president, mrs mogherini, as a venezuelan and a spaniard, it is with deep feeling that i address you. on july 4, the united nations high commissioner for human rights, michelle bachelet, presented the report on the violations of the rights of venezuelans. he confirmed the persecution, torture, murder as a state policy, as denounced by the venezuelan democratic opposition, whom this parliament recognized with the sakharov prize in 2017. the legitimate national assembly of venezuela maintains that this crisis must be resolved through dialogue. as coordinator of the subcommittee on human rights, i am grateful for the commitment made by this draft resolution to free, transparent and verifiable presidential elections under well-recognised international observation. in line with the resolution adopted by this parliament on 28 march, we call on the contact group to cooperate with the lima group in all the actions leading up to these elections. this is the only way for the democratization of venezuela. i call on all democratic political groups to support this resolution. its sole purpose is to bring an end to systematic persecution, repression, violence and human rights violations and the mass exodus from venezuela.
mr president, yes, mrs mogherini, i am very glad that we have achieved a resolution - which i hope will be voted by a wide spectrum in this new parliament - to demonstrate and to re-emphasise the brutal tragedy that has been taking place in venezuela for many years, with a great deal of passivity on the part of many. i think that, unfortunately, you represent precisely that regrettable role which we have played, which has prevented any moment in which the suffering of the venezuelan people could have been shortened. i think we are talking to a gang, not politicians in the habit, not an ideologically marked dictatorship: it is a gang of criminals we are talking about; a gang of criminals protected by a command centre that is in cuba, that is in havana, which has been protected too much from this house, from the european union, and i also think from your mandate. cuba is very guilty of what has happened in venezuela, and not enough has been said. the criminals in venezuela must be presented with a credible threat. and without a credible threat, there's no movement in those negotiations that's going to occur now, as there hasn't been before. that threat has to be sanctions or whatever, but it's necessary.
mr president, we may all have reservations about the iranian regime and its obvious human rights deficits, but it is not always those labelled as rogue regimes who initiate situations, crises like the one we are experiencing. the united states' decision to withdraw unilaterally from the joint comprehensive plan of action is at the origin of this situation. it's a hole, one more hole in the building of multilateral agreements that have made the world safer. maintaining multilateralism as a policy framework and dialogue as the main instrument are the only guarantees in the face of global security challenges. the deal is not perfect, but it was working and controlling the peaceful nature of iran's nuclear program. the agreement is not perfect - it is true - but it is a cornerstone of european diplomacy and a cornerstone of un diplomacy, because of its difficult origin - which you have seen - and the obvious results in its development. the european union must therefore commit itself to keeping the agreement alive and operational and not to align itself with warmongering rhetoric, wherever it comes from, including traditional allies.
mr president, mr prime minister, yesterday we opened a new stage with the first woman president of the commission. with your female leadership we will continue to work for real and effective equality between men and women in europe. the start of the finnish presidency coincides with the beginning of the legislature, but also with a crucial moment in the construction of europe. their objective is the same as ours: to strengthen the european project. we need a stronger, more united and more secure europe. the defence of the rule of law is therefore essential to strengthening the european project. no democratic project, no project of freedom and equality can be built without respect for the laws, the rules that we have all agreed upon. the best response, the best antidote to nationalism and populism is to defend the rule of law in the union and in the member states. their successes will be our successes.
mr president, as a spanish member of parliament, i can assure you that the most effective way of stopping the possible deaths of people in the mediterranean is the relentless fight against illegal immigration and against all those who collaborate and cooperate in this trafficking in human beings. only the possibility of creating a european framework for preventing and combating illegal trafficking in human beings can really save lives. the so-called effect is a reality and it is an unacceptable irresponsibility on the part of those governments and political groups which continue to encourage thousands of people in africa to embark on a deadly journey across the mediterranean, with the collaboration of those mafia of illegal human trafficking and their necessary collaborators. the union's borders must be an impassable gate for all those who want to enter the territory of the union in breach of community or national law. and that is why we cannot accept that the community institutions encourage the actions of those captains who want to continue illegally bringing in human beings in breach of our national and community regulations.
mr president, in 2018, more than 2 200 people died in the mediterranean sea. these are not accidents: they are the direct result of the policies of a strong europe. a few days ago we were joined here by the lawyers who have brought the european union before the office of the prosecutor of the international criminal court, precisely because of these immigration policies which are responsible for more than 14 000 deaths. this cannot go unpunished. there is a chain of political, administrative and enforcement responsibility. in this respect, the european united left proposes concrete solutions. in view of the fact that the governments are no longer in office, this parliament must commit itself to the creation of a civilian rescue and salvage mission at sea. and of course it must break with the criminalization of the work of the ngos in defence of life, which is being carried out in many cases against reactionary and neo-fascist governments. saving lives is not a crime. let's shut down ports and fine those who save them if they are.
ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the 'catch the eye' period, and i am pleased to say that i hope to be able to give the floor to all those who have signed up, provided they meet the one-minute time limit. catch the eye
mr president, the european union is a community of values, but it is also a community of law. that is why it is difficult to accept a debate in which there seems to be a dilemma: either lives are saved or the law is enforced. it's a false dilemma that we cannot accept. there is an anglo-saxon principle that says "hard cases make bad law". i believe that in this debate we want to make good law or establish good policies through individual cases. trafficking in human beings is a cruel and brutal reality in europe: trafficking by sea and trafficking by land. but it is clear that the victims cannot be confused with the perpetrators. at the beginning of the finnish presidency, when there is a new presidency in the commission, i would invite you again to go to the south of spain, to tarifa, to realise that africa is only a few miles away and to know that there will have to be a much more ambitious and structured policy of cooperation to work in and with the countries of origin of immigration. and this can only be done by the european union.
mr president, we are once again discussing the lives of thousands of men, women and children who every day attempt the perilous journey across the mediterranean, fleeing conflict and unsustainable lives. many have died, but many have also been saved increasingly by humanitarian ngos such as open arms, a spanish initiative which is now working across the wider mediterranean. i’d like to speak about carola rackete, the captain of sea-watch 3, arrested last month for docking the search and rescue vessel in italy without permission, but trying to save hundreds of lives. this woman is not a criminal, as salvini would have you believe. she is a heroine, and i salute her. i also salute the spanish fireman miguel roldán who took leave from his job to join the iuventa german rescue boat and helped to save 5 000 people. he faces a possible jail sentence of 20 years for being braver, compassionate and far more principled than most people in this house. and i’m proud that my group, the socialists and democrats, nominated humanitarian ngos for the sakharov prize. they would have been worthy winners.
mr president, listening to the left-wing benches, i wanted to know whether we really want to put up a kind of direct line to bring in anyone who wants to come in some way, and that the right to come to europe is automatically granted to the 1.3 billion africans, which will be 2.5 billion africans in 25 years. what we're really talking about is nonsense. we are trying to solve a crisis on a continent simply by giving priority to a series of traffickers and giving priority to groups that, for ideological reasons, are working with these traffickers, in a performance that is what has triggered the risk there, because it brings many of the young people; many of the best, most dynamic, most imaginative young people within those countries, takes them out of there, encourages them to that emigration - to spend money, to embark on a suicidal adventure - precisely because of that appeal that the ngos feed, generating the traffickers' business. let's see if we can find out.
mr. president, i am pleased to address this house for the first time on such an important and sensitive subject. sometimes, when i hear some of my colleagues in this house speak on this humanitarian issue, i wonder whether our difference is only political or whether it is also a difference of sensitivity, a difference in the degree of empathy towards these kinds of people who put their lives at risk to flee persecution, wars and poverty. that said, it is true that we can do more. parliament has adopted its position on the reform of the dublin regulation, and we also expect, and we continue to expect, that the council will do its job. the commission could have done more. commissioner stylianides, we have asked you many times to change the aid directive which, as you know, is used by some member states to criminalise non-governmental organisations. please, there's still time to correct this situation.
mr president, i am certainly puzzled - and that is why i have asked to speak - by some of the things i have been hearing during this debate. i heard here that captain carola had attacked a ship of the italian navy, which she assumed was more powerful than a captain of a humanitarian ship, but well, anyway. i know that this is a difficult problem, and i think we are all aware of this, and that it cannot be solved by goodwill alone, of course. but what i'm sure of is that he doesn't settle for ill will. he can't handle the lack of guts. it's not gonna work with a lack of empathy. it has been suggested here, and it is being suggested in my country by the far right - we have seen one of their representatives here - that there is a terrible syllogism in dealing with this situation, namely that if we stop allowing humanitarian aid to pass through the mediterranean, the example will stop migrants coming through the mediterranean, which brings us to a terrible conclusion, namely that the dead are the ones who are exemplary. if we stop attending to those who may drown in the mediterranean, when there are i do not know how many dead, ladies and gentlemen, they will stop coming. and that is absolutely unacceptable according to our own principles. don't you want the ngo boats helping the immigrants? the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. that's the only way. they call us hypocrites, but the hypocrites are you, because you don't give a damn about those who lose their lives in the mediterranean.
in writing. – the critique of so-called humanitarian assistance in the flows of illegal immigration across the mediterranean has been made suspect because it is being used by populist governments and movements to justify their hard, anti-immigration stance. but the critique remains valid and needs a response. sea projects originating and financed from outside the mediterranean are serving to encourage people traffickers and migrants who would not otherwise attempt very dangerous crossings to multiply their activities. these ‘humanitarian’ entrepreneurs are subject to no proper regulation and basically engage in a catch-as-catch-can game with approaching migrant boats. the situation is not sustainable for political, security, economic and social reasons. yet europe still does not have a functioning policy to process legal migration, dublin ii arrangements remain unfair and outdated, schengen procedures could soon be placed under new pressure and the feeding of false hopes to arriving migrants is serving to strengthen the reach of people traffickers. so, in my view, uncritical support of projects of humanitarian assistance in the mediterranean will, while the other chapters of european immigration are still pending, serve to provoke further political and moral crises in the medium term. this needs to be reconsidered.
the next item on the agenda is the following: council and commission statements on the clean air zone in european union cities (2019/2738 (rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, air pollution directly causes both chronic and serious diseases such as asthma, cardiovascular problems and lung cancer. ill health caused by air pollution costs the economy billions of euros in lost working days and causes 400 000 premature deaths per year in europe alone. that is why air quality has been, and is, an extremely important issue for the council. the eu has for some time already had a solid legal framework in place that includes the ambient air quality directives and is the basis for measures taken at national, regional and local levels. low emission zones and incentives for cleaner transportation modes have been successfully implemented in different cities and regions in europe with encouraging results. the data show that air quality has improved across europe over the past decades, in particular in urban areas, as emissions of many pollutants have been successfully reduced. in this context, let me highlight the decisive actions taken by the co—legislators over the last few months to strengthen the array of eu legislative instruments in this area even more. i think we can look with satisfaction at the results achieved with the outgoing parliament on a number of new legislative measures that provide, directly and indirectly, important contributions to cleaner air. the clean vehicles directive promotes the market uptake of zero and low-emission vehicles by introducing binding minimum targets for their use in public procurement in each member state. these measures will play a key role in cutting greenhouse gas and air pollutant emissions and will also contribute – to an important extent – to achieving the eu’s climate commitments under the paris agreement. the directive overhauling electronic tolling systems in the eu updates the technical interoperability requirements for such systems. it will create a system of exchange of information to reach foreign drivers who have not paid their road charges and fees with a view to enforcing the respect of road tolls more efficiently. at this stage it also covers charges for access to urban areas, but not complete bans or limitations to certain types of vehicles. however, the review clause of the directive requests that, by 2023, the commission evaluates the extension of the directive to cover low emission zones, restricted access zones and other urban vehicle access regulation schemes. finally, let me also mention the recently adapted climate legislation to reduce co2 emissions from cars, vans and heavy—duty vehicles that will accelerate the uptake of cleaner technologies such as zero and low-emission vehicles, thereby also helping to reduce air pollution in our cities. the finnish presidency attaches great importance to the protection of air quality and to improving the environmental performance of vehicles. in this context, the presidency considers that it’s crucial to continue the mandatory application of real driving emissions test procedures on the road and not to rely solely on test procedures in laboratory conditions. to reach that goal, the parliament and the council need to come to an agreement on conformity factors. as you know, the devices we use to measure real driving emissions have technical uncertainties. conformity factors take account of these uncertainties. we hope to reach a swift agreement with parliament on the new real driving emissions (rde) proposal in order to ensure legal certainty for all parties involved. it is of the utmost importance to ensure the implementation of eu air quality standards by all stakeholders, an issue that is closely followed by the commission. we know that there are still compliance gaps for some key pollutants. the council is therefore looking forward to the completion of the commission’s fitness check of the ambient air quality directives, which it will examine with great interest as soon as available. good air quality, especially in cities, has a positive impact on the quality of life for each of us. a number of cities in the eu still exceeded the limit values of the national emission ceilings directive. thus we all have to work nationally to secure better health for our citizens. the strong link between air quality and climate change means that similar measures can help to tackle both. for example, the transport sector is the biggest source of emissions of black carbon that accelerates the warming of the arctic region. this is important to keep in mind in the eu discussions as well. thank you very much for your attention.
member of the commission. – mr president, clean air, and protecting the health of our citizens, is a key priority for the commission. the fact that air pollution causes over 400 000 premature deaths every year is unacceptable. we have to act, to the benefit of our citizens. and that is precisely what this commission has been doing this mandate – and we have done so resolutely. our actions have been based on three main pillars. first: supporting our member states in reaching eu air quality standards. we have made eu funding available under various financial streams and the member states have successfully used that funding to address the air quality challenge. to cite just one figure: in the current programming period 2014-2020, almost eur two billion have been directly allocated to air quality measures under the european structural and investment funds. second point: improving how we regulate emissions at their source. prominent examples for this are the directive regulating medium combustion plants and the package of real driving emissions rules. third and final: taking decisive enforcement action when and where exceedances of air quality limit values persist. the commission is currently pursuing 30 infringement procedures against 20 member states for exceedances of particulate matter, nitrogen dioxide or sulphur dioxide limit values. for two cases already, the court of justice has confirmed that member states need to accelerate their efforts to improve air quality further. the commission is doing its part, and will continue to do so as the measures taken so far have resulted in some improvements. but we also need to remember what that part is. our legislation on ambient air sets limit values on air pollution, and an obligation to keep exceedance periods as short as possible, and the commission steps in when and where this is not the case. but the choice of measures lies with member states. it is up to their authorities, across levels of governance, being national or local, to define which coordinated measures they take to meet the agreed limit values. when the commission takes infringement action against member states, the goal is not to ensure that one measure or the other is implemented – be it a specific clean air zone, support for renewing the fleet, replacing old boilers in households, or any other measure. the goal is, first and foremost, to speed up efforts in those member states to reach compliance with eu legislation, and to keep any period of exceedance as short as possible. beyond legislation and infringements, we support cities in a number of ways to make their air cleaner. when it comes to urban mobility, for example, we are working with national and local authorities to identify best practices on urban vehicle access regulation schemes such as low-emission zones and traffic restriction measures, but also to foster consistency in line with single market principles and ensure information on such access regulations.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. health is our greatest asset, and that is why it is surely our common goal to reduce air pollutants. we have already achieved a great deal, and this should be borne in mind in all discussions. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. in the 1990s, ozone alarms were very common in central europe. ozone is produced by sunlight and nitrogen oxides. sun exposure has increased, but nitrogen oxides have decreased. that's why we have less ozone alarms. so it is not a cause for panic, but it is a cause for action and for moving forward on this path. the epp believes that driving bans on diesel vehicles are not a good solution, because firstly they are a burden for many citizens who are dependent on cars and cannot afford to buy a completely low-emission car in the short term. i think it's difficult, too. in my country, for example, there is a threat to close a motorway which runs through the middle of the ruhr area - a very large area with five million inhabitants. if people drive through residential areas, it certainly does not serve their health. that's why we have to address the problem at its source. that is what the commissioner said, and i want to support that. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we must offer diesel drivers a refit if they are affected by the exhaust fumes. i am personally in favour of a new euro 7 level. but we must also consider other sources, such as shipping. president ursula von der leyen spoke about this in connection with co2, but we must also take greater responsibility for shipping in relation to other pollutants. in german, ships often burn the last of their dirt and have virtually no exhaust gas cleaning. this must change if we are to make further progress in air pollution control.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. thank you for the introductions to this subject. for us in the socialist group, clean air in europe is a huge top priority. it is important for the health of citizens that they can breathe clean air. i fully agree with both the commission and the council that much has been done in recent years. but despite that, we face a lot of problems around europe. for example, in madrid and madrid central, which has had a challenge with their air quality and the environmental zones that have been created there. the air in madrid is not clean, and they want to do something about it. we see it in many places in europe, that the citizens cannot breathe a proper air. we're gonna have to do something more. we have to do something more! the member states have a huge responsibility, because it is you who have to make sure that the rules we have are followed. the european commission also has a huge responsibility. in the last term we had the whole 'dieselgate' scandal that we were working on and we have got good legislation in place but it has not yet come into force. it won't be done until next year! and that's only a quarter, i think, of the cars that are running illegally as a result of the dieselgate scandal that have been recalled from the market, so three quarters are still out there polluting. that's just not good enough! we need cleaner air. and why should it? as peter liese said, it has to be because it is about our health. people are dying from this. and the people who don't die have a poorer quality of life. so it takes a lot more. i would like the old european commission to make sure that the new european commission knows that it is a priority for us in the european parliament that more should be done. we need to check our toolbox. for example, can we enable member states to ban diesel and petrol cars if they need to, in order to create cleaner air and health? the aim is to create opportunities to do more in this area. this could be one of the possibilities. i think we should help the citizens of madrid and all sorts of other places to make sure that they can get clean air. they don't have that today. it's time for us to act.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, breathe is dead! commissioner, it is not 400 000 premature deaths every year, it is 600 000 premature deaths every year in europe. this is a real health scandal. we must act fast, strong and now. currently, there are 29 infringement proceedings pending against 20 member states for failure to meet air quality standards. the same states that have not drawn any conclusions from this scandal, from this case called dieselgate. i've been ringing the alarm for four years. 40 million garbage trucks are still on our roads. what did you do? what are you waiting for to recall these vehicles? what are you waiting for to recall consumer law? air pollution exists everywhere. does the commission intend to take responsibility, recall these vehicles, respect the rights of consumers? the reality is that you have a duty to ensure that citizens have a real respect for the quality of their air, but above all the protection of their health. i'll just give you an idea. what are you waiting for to put in place a plan to phase out diesel and petrol vehicles by 2030? you will win on climate, you will win on industrial policy, but you will win most of all in consistency between your talk and your actions.
on behalf of the ecr group. we are very sorry that the left has brought the central madrid issue to this house with the sole purpose of damaging the image and interests of spain, something which is quite common among spanish socialists and communists. on 26 may, not only european elections were held in spain, but also municipal elections. and the people of madrid decided to vote for those parties that mostly proposed the abolition of the system of restricting movement in central madrid. but there is an undeniable reality, which cannot be denied, and that is that madrid central has been a failure: a failure for the merchants, who have seen their sales reduced by more than 15%, a failure for the families, who take more than two hours to get to their workplace or take their children to school, and a failure for the air quality and the improvement of air pollution, because in reality, as has been said here, the air has no borders and the air pollution levels in madrid central have not improved and yet they have moved to peripheral areas of that same city. we will not accept that the left gives us a single lesson in relation to the conservation of the environment or the defence of the health of the spanish people. but what we are also going to say is that the solution is neither to prohibit nor to restrict. public transport will have to be improved; coal boilers - more than 500 of them are still in madrid - will have to be abolished; oil boilers will have to be replaced by gas boilers; and renovation plans will have to be encouraged so that only the rich can use electric vehicles in the city. and finally, what i have to say is that the solution cannot happen because, in the brussels offices, a team of technicians tells the people of madrid how they should manage their city.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, air pollution is killing people. it kills 900,000 people worldwide every year. in europe, i think karima delli's figure of 600,000 people is good. in france, 67,000 people die each year from the air they breathe, or about 9% of all deaths in the country. the causes of this are well known: industrial pollution, road traffic and extreme population density. as chairman of the committee on regional development, i would add that we must continue to direct structural funds towards this objective, but we must also rethink the whole of urban organisation. we must also have the courage to fight against the 'all-car' lobby, because we have not forgotten the 'dieselgate' scandal. finally, i would like to say that we must step up our action against the unwilling states which do not comply with the air quality directive, and i am thinking in particular of france, which is showing very bad will.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am glad that this second part-session in strasbourg is dealing with such an important subject, because the air pollution emergency has been the subject of this house, time and again, even in the last term. we have been working on an important resolution which sets out a bit of a course of action. i hope that the european commission will take up the suggestions made by this parliament in the last legislature, and it is true that many of the regulations have been adopted, i am thinking in particular of the one on the promotion of clean vehicles, already mentioned, i am thinking of the reduction of co2 for cars and vans and also for heavy vehicles. but much, much more needs to be done, because in my country, italy, there are 219 premature deaths every day, due to air pollution, 90,000 a year, and the scientific studies that tell us today how air pollution negatively affects the cognitive development of children is something very serious, that should alarm us all, and therefore greater ambition and greater determination in introducing serious measures to counter air pollution. i agree that the banning of certain polluting vehicles, more polluting than the ones mentioned, diesel vehicles - and today there are over 40 million of them still on our roads that do not comply with the rules - should be banned, and i expect greater ambition from the european commission for a coordinated recall in all the countries that are still struggling to do this. so, more ambition on the part of the european commission.
mr president, the fight against pollution cannot be divided or delayed. our priority is the health of all europeans. every year 400 000 europeans die prematurely from pollution. those who want to politicize this debate are wrong. the fight against pollution is not the heritage of the left or any political ideology. in spain we are too tired of the left always appropriating the merits of others and of shared merits. yesterday feminism and today the environment. why don't they talk about paris? why do they talk about madrid and not paris? i will give you an example: madrid and barcelona have been governed for the last four years by the left, the left unable to take effective measures against pollution, and doing so against the people of madrid. and now they're coming to teach us lessons. if you come, come to acknowledge your inability to fight pollution. there is only one way, ladies and gentlemen: to raise awareness, to involve all citizens, to have comprehensive policies with effective measures and, above all, political and social consensus. let us not be hypocrites, partial traffic restrictions are not enough if there are still polluting boilers. the use of alternative fuels, improved public transport and the renewal of the car fleet are needed. for the partido popular, the defence of the environment and health is a central objective, in madrid and in any city in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the right and the far right in spain, you have been on the defensive in this debate. what is happening, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, madam minister, is that madrid central is working and madrid central is a success in fighting pollution and defending the quality of public health for the people of madrid. and in spain there are no cordon sanitaires; that's why the right and the ultra-right rule in madrid and they wanted to eliminate central madrid, causing more pollution and a worse health of the madrilenians. but a judge, your honour, has stopped you. and i'm going to read you part of the sentence, which says: "in the face of a measure aimed at protecting the environment, such as madrid central, the municipal agreement [which suspended it] does not offer any alternative to the abolition of the low emission zone, nor does it justify that it was ineffective or that it produced greater damage than it was trying to avoid at the environmental level". the judge continued: 'protecting health and the environment are principles which should govern the actions of public authorities'. that is why, commissioner, madam minister, since you have spoken here about the revision of the air directive, i ask you to protect and defend yourself when there are local governments, in large cities, who are implementing measures in the centre of their cities, which are as important as madrid central in the case of madrid. and if reactionary governments come, climate deniers, they should be prevented from reversing those measures. madrid central is a good example for europe and the world. it must be protected and defended. let's see if you understand this, gentlemen of the right and the far right in spain.
mr president, we are becoming increasingly aware of the extent of the ecological crisis we are facing, and it is not because of politicians or european leaders - as we are seeing - but because of organised civil society, especially young people. four hundred thousand people in europe, ten thousand in spain and fourteen in madrid alone die prematurely every day from air pollution. in central madrid, this pollution has been reduced drastically. and it is a shame - it is a shame - that conservative governments, who have systematically flouted environmental legislation, now want to reverse it. the european union must prevent this. we must be brave. we must respond to the demands of the millions of citizens who are calling for changes in environmental policies. we cannot allow this to be reversed for purely sectarian reasons. we may think differently, but we breathe the same.
mr president, if only the cities were in the countryside! at least that's what many people think. a recent survey of european citizens revealed that people in large cities would like three things: less traffic, more green space and cleaner air. they also believe that it is up to politicians to take action to tackle air pollution in large cities. every city dweller would lose a year of healthy life because of air pollution. a year of life! well, yes, it is our responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, to take this into account and to fight against all pollution, and in particular air pollution. we need to put in place effective measures, first toughening up standards for fine particulate matter, then supporting clean air zones initiatives that are protected from heavy and polluting road traffic, promoting the installation of well insulated buildings with high-performance heating technologies and finally helping the most disadvantaged people to get better heating.
mr president, commissioner, there is no doubt that there is a problem with air pollution in the big cities. this is, of course, due to overcrowding, to a lot of road transport, to the unwashed streets, to a large extent, and to neighborhoods that are heated with solid fuel or burn second-hand clothes. in my city, sofia, this is a serious problem in the roma neighborhoods, but these problems cannot be the reason for the "taliban" approach to this issue. i repeat, my colleague novakov from just a few months ago, just a few months ago this room voted the "mobility package", which she agreed to, including those who define themselves as green from this part of the room, and they agreed to return the trucks empty, to walk the trucks empty up and down europe. i'm forced to say again, for the second time today in this room, that this is hypocrisy. you cannot claim to be green, to be an environmentalist and insist that a truck travels hundreds of thousands of kilometres empty, burning 20 litres of oil per 100 litres, in order to satisfy the interests, the lobbying interests of french companies or german companies. it's a double standard, it can't work that way. the same question arises with regard to the possibility of working in coal-fired power stations. this affects thousands of jobs in bulgaria, the maricopa basin, poland. we cannot, because of, i repeat, the taliban's approach to a handful of fanatics, leave people out of work. i'll give you another example: in bulgaria, the industry that produces artificial chemical fertilizers is suffocating because neighboring turkey produces it much cheaper, because it doesn't meet any standards. but you can't put a barrier between bulgaria and turkey, the air is passing and polluting. so, mr president, there can be no 'taliban' approach, we must also take into account the jobs of the citizens.
mr president, you have admitted here that you are concerned with air quality in cities, because health problems cost billions of euros in lost working hours. so cynically, class-wise, you're concerned about workers, their health and the environment, because it's the european union and its governments that are bombing people and destroying countries like yugoslavia, syria and elsewhere, that are burning garbage and have set up businesses with the trade in pollutants and the reactionary notion that the polluter pays to keep polluting, that are blaming the pollution of the seas on the ordinary user of plastics by taxing them, while the number one contributor to marine pollution, the shipowners, are tax-exempt and subsidized. with the backs of the european union and the support of new democracy and syriza in greece, the aget lafarge monopoly is burning rubbish and pet coke in volos, turning the city into a gas chamber, against the will of the residents, who are protesting against their plans with mass demonstrations. only the socialisation of wealth and the means of production, an economy and society not based on capitalist profit, can ensure the planned, compatible and balanced interaction of working man with nature and the environment.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you so much for this really very important debate. it was really very helpful for putting the issue of clean air on the agenda. no doubt we all recognise that it is one of the most important environment and health challenges of our time, and our discussion today has shown that there are multiple challenges ahead of us, no doubt also measures need to be adopted at regional and local level to deal with air quality issues. but also you know well that the european commission cannot force any specific measures, but at the same time, our contribution to the sibiu summit focuses on this. we have stressed the urgency of continuing our efforts in the years ahead, and our citizens expect that the air we breathe every day is of good quality and does not leave us at the risk of harm, and all of us also recognise that they expect from us as institutions – the european parliament, the european commission, member states and also local authorities – to solve this problem, to find innovative ways to reduce the problem. and i strongly believe that only together we can find ways to reduce the consequences of these problems, because it’s one of the major challenges of our time.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you so much for your contributions during these discussions: they are all highly valuable. let me conclude by recalling that improving air quality means to address a number of factors that are relevant in this respect, and it requires common efforts to strive for this objective by putting in place a variety of measures at european, national, regional and local level. the infringement procedures recently opened by the commission against several member states for breach of eu air quality legislation are a testimony of the importance of monitoring whether eu law in the area is being properly enforced. indeed, we need to act on three levels: proper implementation of eu legislation; national rules and regulations; and, last but not least, provisions by cities and local communities, which makes this all very concrete to our citizens in madrid, in helsinki, in strasbourg, and in all of our cities in europe. in this way we will be able to ensure a better protection of the health of european citizens and the environment. ladies and gentlemen, the presidency is putting its best efforts to achieve progress in these areas, and together with member states and the eu institutions, we need to decisively pursue eu-wide efforts to foster low-emission mobility. i would like to conclude by underlining the importance that we attach to sustainability, the implementation of the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development, in line with the motto of our presidency, which is: ‘sustainable europe, sustainable future’. so thank you all again very much for this opportunity to speak and for your attention.
the debate is closed.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 7.17 p.m.)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation in hong kong (2019/2732(rsp)).
author. – madam president, the groups of this parliament have come together to move a joint resolution on human rights breaches in hong kong. i think this is a symbolically highly relevant action by this new parliament because we have always held that eu foreign policy would be based on the fundamental values that our union stands for: human rights, the rule of law and democracy. when we see people rising in defence of their civic and human rights, we as europeans must express our solidarity and this is what we do with the people of hong kong through this resolution. (applause)
author. – madam president, the people of hong kong are afraid. this fear is to be detected easily everywhere. they protest continually. the reason for their fear is the imposing of the extradition bill and they think that the concept of one state, two systems may lead eventually to their oppression and intimidation. i’m afraid that these protests will continue unless the situation is solved politically, which is what we appeal for.
author. – madam president, the proposed extrajudicial law that would make it easier to extradite people from hong kong to china has triggered over recent weeks a most massive protest in hong kong’s history. this is not the way a country’s two-system principle should work in practice. we support a call for the full withdrawal of this law. the hong kong government should immediately release, and drop all charges against, the peaceful protesters and all those detained during or before the protests for the peaceful exercise of their freedom of expression. hong kong’s legislation of should remain fully in line with its international and human rights obligations. in its ongoing reform process and increasing global engagement, china has opted into the international human rights framework by signing up to a wide range of international human rights treaties. therefore, we have to pursue dialogue with china to encourage it to live up to these commitments.
author. madam president, we support the right to demonstrate everywhere in the world as a fundamental right. also in the case of hong kong, where they demonstrate to demand the withdrawal of the extradition law. as in all places in the world, we also call for an investigation into the police action and demand the release of peaceful protesters. but we also want to denounce the hypocrisy of the european union, which sees human rights violations only outside its borders and looks the other way when they are also violated in europe. we also call for dialogue between the eu institutions and china to guarantee the rights of the people in hong kong and to establish a european approach to china adapted to the geopolitical challenges of the 21st century, where human rights, respect for the environment and labour rights are a fundamental element of our future relationship with china.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. the peaceful demonstrations in hong kong are among the largest since hong kong's reunification with china in 1997. i believe the protesters are right to fear that the proposed extradition bill may be used in practice to pressure and harass hong kong citizens who are uncomfortable with china. and that's why i agree that simply suspending work on them is not enough, and we should formally withdraw from this project. it is also necessary to release immediately the demonstrators who have expressed their concern about the changes. i am also concerned about freedom of speech and the press, including the pressure on journalists and self-censorship of comments about china and the government. i would like to stress that freedom of expression is a fundamental human right and that respecting it is a fundamental issue.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, having visited hong kong and being a guest in particular of the jockey club, i saw what a wonderful, vibrant, sporting city it is and how the people enjoy their freedom and peace. that’s now being threatened and i think it is absolutely wonderful that the european parliament in its first official session on this urgent topic urgencies are highlighting the issues in hong kong. it’s not right that people should be detained for exercising their right to free expression. it’s not right that people should be detained for trying to promote their own civil rights, political rights and press freedom, and it is absolutely right that the european union, working with the international community, should put pressure on china and hong kong to ensure that these violations of human rights will stop. i think we’ll have to be very vigilant over the next number of years to show that, number one, we stand by hong kong and, two, that we are against human rights violations anywhere in the world.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the protests we’ve seen in the past weeks in hong kong are a really encouraging sign that the people of hong kong will not let their freedoms be abolished. the sheer scale is unprecedented, and the outcome of this crisis will be a turning point for hong kong’s position in china. if the protesters prevail, this will be a big win for freedom in hong kong. however, if beijing wins, this will be a premature end to ‘one country, two systems’. you can rest assured that we will then see very many people being brought to trial under less than ideal conditions. so, the european union must take a clear stance and support the freedoms in hong kong. it’s really important that china is in global focus at the moment, with what’s going on in hong kong and its economy is slowing down, and what’s going on in xinjiang. it’s really important, in the summits and the meetings that we have with china, that we stress the human rights issue. it’s really important that the high representative – the current one and the incoming one – take this issue up.
madam president, i congratulate you on your first plenary address and wish you the best of luck in your new role. allow me to join in the resolution we're voting on today. i would point out that parliament's position is consistent. in the last election, we dealt with the case of two booksellers who were abducted from hong kong to china and were imprisoned and subjected to a legal process that was contrary to the basic principles of fair trial. so there is a real concern that china would abuse such a law, that people suspected of political offenses would be extradited to china and punished there in violation of the principles of criminal law. so we're supporting the hong kong people here. it is good that we stand by them and do everything to ensure that this bill is finally withdrawn completely, not just suspended, which is the current state of affairs that logically does not suit the citizens of hong kong.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, human rights have been and are being discussed in the european parliament. we must ensure respect for human rights everywhere. obviously, we are mainly interested in the european union, but also in the third countries with which the european union has relations. it's a resolution that we sign. the question i raise here is, are we credible in asking other member states, when within the european union we have human rights violations? obviously, we don't want the people of hong kong to suffer, we don't want the people of china to suffer. we want human rights to be respected. but the problem we have to solve here is to set a good example for ourselves first, and then teach others.
madam president, the proposed extradition act represents an assault on the ‘one country, two systems’ principle, which was set up all those years ago to protect the human rights and autonomy of the people of hong kong. but above that, it is actually helpful to china too, and if china is putting pressure on the hong kong government to bring this act into place it is not acting in its own interests. china sources the capital it needs for economic growth – which brings prosperity to its very poor people – through the financial sector in hong kong, and we’re already seeing some of the jobs there fleeing to other centres around asia. as china is so dependent on hong kong for its prosperity, it really should be putting pressure on the government of hong kong to withdraw this act, and not putting pressure on them to get this act through their legislature.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, you know well that the european union is closely following the situation in hong kong. in recent weeks, we have seen the people of hong kong marching in unprecedented numbers, exercising their fundamental rights of freedom of expression and assembly, as guaranteed by the basic law. the massive demonstrations over the last weeks have shown the determination of the hong kong people to keep the ‘one country, two systems’ principle intact. i would like to take this opportunity of the debate today to recall that the eu’s full support for the ‘one country, two systems’ principle and its implementation remains very vocal. the principle gives hong kong a high degree of autonomy and ensures respect for the fundamental rights and freedoms of hong kong’s people. this principle is also key for business confidence in hong kong. hong kong, as you know and as you have already said, is an important financial centre, a global hub for offshore renminbi (rmb) business and a strategic trans-shipment port. the ‘one country, two systems’ principle is essential for hong kong to continue to fully play its strategic economic role. since the beginning of the movement, the european union has called for restraint by all sides, underlining that violence and escalatory responses must be avoided. we reject all kinds of violence. we were deeply shocked by the events of 1 july at the legislative council building. the european union shares many of the concerns raised by citizens of hong kong regarding the government’s proposed extradition reforms. this is a very sensitive issue with potentially far-reaching consequences for hong kong and its people, for the european union and foreign citizens, as well as for business confidence in hong kong. the government has said that it will no longer pursue the controversial bill, but the tensions persist. we witness with concern that the trust between society, especially the young generation, in hong kong and the government, is more and more fragile. more protests have been announced. it is really more vital than ever to engage in dialogue to bridge the tensions within society for the benefit of the hong kong people at large and the special administrative region’s (sar) standing as an international hub.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held at the end of the debates.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the situation at the usa-mexican border (2019/2733(rsp)).
, author. madam president, good morning to all; every government has the right and the obligation to defend its borders, internal legality and its sovereignty. that is a fundamental point which concerns both the united states of america and mexico, as well as the european countries. we are witnessing a permanent agitation in which the us government is being forced to give up all three: defending its borders, defending its sovereignty and defending its legality. that can't be right. we have actually seen a coordination and agitation, from inside and outside the united states, to violate that border, to encourage entire columns, organized from outside, to attack that border and violate it, which is unprecedented and deserves our condemnation. the right of asylum must be guaranteed and the situation on the mexican border with the united states, and on many other borders, must be regulated. but mexico has also recognized, as other countries do, that the united states is making efforts to regulate that, and that they really have to approve and understand that the alarming situation on the united states border depends much more on the aggression that is taking place than on the legitimate right of the united states to defend its border and its sovereignty.
author. madam president, first of all, it is regrettable that, after almost four hours of negotiations and a formal commitment by the epp to sign this resolution, a few minutes before it was registered, the epp announced its refusal. it is obvious that the staging of the negotiations was only intended to reduce the critical tone of the text as much as possible, and we take note of this strategy. there are a huge number of aspects of current us immigration policy that would merit harsh criticism, both political and ethical. i will mention only two: the deliberate use of family separation as a mechanism to discourage crosses, its use as a conscious deterrent tool 'not as a necessity for any other reason' and the subsequent overcrowding of all people in these centres without any conditions. and a second aspect: the use of the threat of a trade war, of a tariff war, to force changes in the immigration policy of a neighbouring country and supposed ally. as allies of the united states, we must show our deep rejection of these practices. i think vice-president mike pence will be haunted for the rest of his life by the ominous photo of him walking alongside people in cages asking for dignified treatment; a photo too similar to some photographs of europe that we do not want to see repeated anywhere in the world.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. we know that this terrible situation is happening at the us-mexico border, but also in the european union itself. trump's racist policies have led to the deaths of 400 people in the past year. in the mediterranean, 2,200 drowned by the fortress europe. we not only copied trump's immigration policies, we overtook them. the closure of borders, the walls of shame and the cis are one of the biggest scandals of this century and one for which the european union will have to answer. this whole strategy fuels criminal business. the priority must be to save lives at sea and at borders, but also to fight the causes of migration: not to provoke or support wars, not to plunder their natural resources, and to fight climate change that forces them to flee their villages.
the commission has already done so. yes, the extreme drought has taken a heavy toll on our forests in recent years. the bark beetle has been able to multiply explosively, and if i look at the figures from my own state, bavaria, i see that in the last five years 20 million cubic metres of bark beetle wood have been cut at an average price of 25 euros per hectare. a half a billion euros loss for our bavarian forest owners! money that is badly needed to actually get forestry going. the forest as we know it today is the loser of climate change. to be fit for the future, we need a forest that is managed sustainably, not excessive environmental legislation. we need a sustainable resource strategy to use wood in all areas of life. i could also imagine incorporating bark beetle wood into public building projects. only a managed forest stores co2 and protects the climate, and we all need to be aware of this.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our forests are in danger and this summer's fires are a testament to this awareness. when you look at it, we're losing the equivalent of 800 football fields of forest every hour, which is huge. mr cañete, your communication is very comprehensive on the report, but still not sufficiently voluntary on the proposals, which suggest a lot of dialogue and voluntary commitments, but too little, far too little, binding measures. i'd like to do a few of them, especially on energy wood. it is absolutely essential to exclude wood energy from eu renewable energy legislation now, not in 2023. we know that 80 percent of global deforestation is caused by intensive agriculture, so we have to stop importing meat, soybeans, palm oil, which are contributing to deforestation in the amazon and indonesia. and finally, it is absolutely essential to empower indigenous peoples and local communities to effectively protect their forests, because they are the best guardians of them. so there is a lot to be done, mr cañete, and we are waiting for concrete proposals.
the question posed by the blue card. madam president, i do not wish to have a czech-czech debate here, but mr blaško has raised the proposal that the european commission should intervene in the member states. do you think, mr. speaker, that the czech ministry of the environment, the czech forestry is not capable of making decisions on its own? you really think we're supposed to be told what to do? i'm not against sharing good practice, but i trust our foresters, i trust our environmentalists.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain chemicals on human health and the environment. fortunately, europe is not threatened by excessive deforestation; in fact, the forest cover on our continent is increasing, which is encouraging information. but that does not mean that we are using our forests well and managing them well. the differences between member states are large, not only in terms of the forest cover of their territory but also in terms of ownership. while most european forests are privately owned, in croatia almost 80% are publicly owned and managed by a public company. the agreed objectives in future forest management strategies must be common to us, but we must be careful to take into account the specificities of each member state. thank you very much.
madam president, commissioner, i want to thank you and congratulate you on your work leading the energy and climate action portfolio. thank you very much for your leadership in bringing the paris agreement to fruition and for your ambitious climate change goals. forests are one of our greatest assets from an environmental point of view. they help us protect soils from erosion, filter the air, provide habitat for many species and play a key role in the fight against climate change. we know a lot about this in spain, the second largest country in europe in terms of forest cover. spanish forests have made us the most biodiverse country in the european union, and its 7.5 billion trees absorb 37% of the co2 we emit. but at the same time, we are very aware that there is no landscape without a landscape. the good conservation status and health of our forests depend on their relationship with the inhabitants of the rural world. we must therefore recognise the important economic and social role of forests in rural europe. forests are key to fighting depopulation, generating economic opportunities and employment in empty spain. they provide jobs for the timber industry and supply the material needed for bioenergy generation. we therefore express our full rejection of the cuts proposed by the commission to the cap budget.
mr president, as has been said, on the one hand we are paying for agricultural products which are reducing forests in third countries and, on the other hand, in some parts of europe the rural population decline is causing the forest to expand, with the consequent abandonment of traditional crops and extensive livestock farming, as well as increasing forest fires. nor can we afford the progressive loss of our native forests, particularly the atlantic ones, which are reserves of biodiversity. for example, in galicia, the area of eucalyptus monocultures has doubled in twenty years. it is not a question of eliminating it, but of preventing its uncontrolled development and promoting orderly management. the european union has an obligation to promote a trade and international policy to curb deforestation, but also, commissioner, here in europe we must promote sustainable forest management, protect the traditional forest, combat rural depopulation, encourage extensive and sustainable livestock farming, conserve the funds devoted to the cap, and contribute to maintaining our forests and ecosystems in a healthier way.
mr president, in 2015 the european patent office considered it possible to patent plants, such as varieties of tomatoes and broccoli. he then changed his position in the face of the scale of the protests. unfortunately, on 18 december 2018, its technical appeal chamber ruled in favour of the disastrous 2015 position. like the committee on agriculture, i ask the commission and the european parliament to protest to the european patent office. we must make it clear once again that we are absolutely opposed to the patentability of living things. the general interest must prevail over the particular interests of the powerful lobbies at work. the maintenance of biodiversity, consumer protection and the defence of our farmers depend on us. i would remind you in conclusion that there has been legal protection for research seeds since 1961. this is the certificate of plant variety, which is much more respectful of farmers' rights than the patent.
madam president, i would like to thank you all in advance for the minute's silence for the victims of the floods in my country, spain. the consensus in the committee on agriculture demonstrates the need and urgency of this resolution. it is not acceptable that, contrary to the spirit of the legislator, the back door should be opened to patents on plants obtained by essentially biological processes. this controversial decision harms smaller companies, but above all innovation in agriculture. however, this error by the european patent office and the court of appeal cannot serve as an excuse for the most radical groups to attack a european system of patents and variety protection which functions perfectly and guarantees the rights of all operators. a specific error cannot call into question a patent system which favours the development of our agriculture and which is currently working efficiently.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, it is now the fifteenth weekend since the great demonstration of june 9th, which marked the beginning of the current crisis in hong kong, and we are seeing how it is ending in different scenarios of violence. just yesterday we witnessed new scenes of violence, where the police resorted to criminal prosecution and water cannons against the protesters. we want to be very clear. today, here, we reiterate our unwavering support for the right to demonstrate as a fundamental right in all parts of the world. and in this case, in hong kong, how can it be otherwise. we therefore call for an investigation into the police actions and for the release of the peaceful protesters. fundamental rights and human rights are universal and indivisible. that is why we also want to denounce here today the action of the commission and of this european parliament when it sees and denounces human rights violations abroad but looks the other way when they occur on our own territory. the member states of the european union have no problem with reaching large trade agreements with china. we think it is time for the european union to have an updated strategic plan for china in its relations with that country. we therefore call for dialogue. we urge the commission, parliament and china to guarantee the rights of all people and to establish a european position adapted to the geopolitical challenges of the 21st century.
madam president, i fully agree with what we are saying about hong kong, about the defence of human rights in hong kong, and we would also like them for china. but i am very sorry that in this song of human rights we forget, for example, something else, which is a paradox. only a week ago, mrs mogherini was in cuba, when there was a brutal repression taking place there, on the island, a wave of repression such as very few have experienced. and mrs mogherini was talking about a wonderful cuba, a cuba that would serve as a bridge for the european union to ibero-america. a scandal of speech is that of mogherini in havana, of complicity with the bloody dictatorship which, for sixty years, has crushed the cubans, which for sixty years has entered ibero-america to destabilize and support tyrannies such as the venezuelan or the nicaraguan, and which acts as a general destabilizer. please, let's be a little more coherent.
madam president, three of the eight young people from altsasu, in euskal herria, have spent more than 1 000 days in prison. they are in prison for the simple fact of being involved in a fight in which off-duty members of the civil guard also participated. the prosecutor claimed that it was a terrorist attack and, although the national court dismissed these charges, it convicted them of serious crimes ranging from two to thirteen years in prison. in 2017, 52 meps requested president juncker's intervention, and vice-president timmermans announced that they would be watching the case closely. amnesty international also pointed to the risk of ambiguity in the terrorism charge and expressed concern that the accused were being discriminated against on the basis of their ideology. a new hearing is scheduled for the day after tomorrow and we are calling on the new commission to follow the case closely and to take the necessary measures if the spanish state does not act in accordance with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
madam president, spain has just suffered one of the worst floods in its history, which has affected andalusia, the region of murcia, the valencian community and castilla-la mancha. rail, air and road communications were cut off. there has been considerable property damage and crop losses. thousands of people have had to be evacuated from their homes and, unfortunately, we have suffered loss of human life. it is now time for europe to show its solidarity with the thousands of spaniards who have suffered the consequences of the floods. i would like to take this opportunity to express to all of them our support and our hand in dealing with the consequences. and also, the recognition of all those who have intervened in the various operations. that is why, madam president, i urgently call for the european solidarity fund to be activated. europe must contribute with all the resources at its disposal to alleviate the damage of a truly dramatic situation and help to bring everything back to normalcy as quickly as possible.
madam president, the fight against climate change or the replacement of traditional energy sources by renewable energy sources is certainly a game that the european union and humanity itself are playing and in which their own survival is also at stake. but it is not reasonable that this departure should be supported by only a few regions of europe. there are many countries - most countries - which, in accordance with the union's own approaches, are doing this and are also speeding up the procedures for making this substitution. and many of them have also proposed procedures for the economic and social conversion of those regions themselves, but the truth is that so far they have not been particularly successful. it is time for the european union itself to become much more involved, in addition to the national governments themselves, and to try to provide funds, and not only sufficient financial funds, but also expertise and advice for the implementation of these funds. i think the time has come for the union itself to provide - as i say - sufficient funds in the next financial perspective, and not just patches. of course this european union has become industrialised and europe has become industrialised with coal. the european union, its seed, also came into being around coal; whole generations of europeans have given up their health, their lives around coal. i think we're looking at a question not just of social justice, but also of justice with history.
mr president, a week ahead of the assembly in new york, the sustainable development goals (sdgs) are on everybody’s lips. business people are talking about them, and politicians all over the globe. but what does it mean in real terms? are we on track? no, we are not. we are missing our goals in the global south because of a lack of resources, and we are far behind in the global north, in many cases because of a lack of political will and decisive action. that has to be changed radically. yes? especially in the low-income countries, we would need some usd 530 billion a year to make meaningful progress on the sdgs. but what sounds so huge is not more than 0.5% of global gdp. so why are we not ready to invest this amount of money for proper heating, water supply, health care and decent nutrition for the kids in our poorest areas of the world? even where we see pragmatic progress in the north, it is far from enough. as long as we have spillovers – where we clear rainforests for the production of meat and palm oil for the global north, where we see the production of our clothes under the poorest conditions – we will see rising problems. ich glaube, dass der entscheidende schlüssel zum kampf um den fortschritt für die nachhaltigkeitsziele der kampf gegen ungleichheit und ungerechtigkeit ist. nur wenn wir in unsere gesellschaften investieren und die menschen in die lage versetzen, ihr schicksal selber in die hand zu nehmen, mit starken institutionen, mit multilateralem ansatz und mit einer politik für bessere erziehung in die nächste generation, werden wir eine chance haben. das erwarten wir vom nächsten gipfel.
mr. chairman, please! the european union already has the most ambitious climate policy in the world, and i do not think we should make any more declarations in new york about raising the level of ambition. please note that the european union's overly restrictive climate policy has already led to a decline in the competitiveness of european industry. can't you see what's happening in the steel industry, for example? well, we're seeing a flood of cheap chinese steel. the excessive climate policy of the european union is what is driving industry out of the european union. as emissions decline, so do jobs, and so does unemployment. we talk about climate targets, so we should also talk about energy poverty. in the european union, 54 million people suffer from energy poverty. you should also take note of this. i am very much in favour of protecting the climate, but the climate transition must be fair, it must take into account the different energy mix of member states, such as poland, which has a coal-based energy mix. that's why we need a just transition fund.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the president-designate of the european commission, ursula von der leyen, said: 'i am inspired by the passion, conviction and energy of the millions of young people who make their voices heard on our streets and in our hearts.' i can only support ursula von der leyen by allowing her to walk the path with us. we want to be climate neutral, and we also want to raise the european union's target for 2030. i would like to warn all of us against practicing self-deprecation, so to speak. the european union is already a leader in climate action. we are the only major economic community in the world, the only major emitter, as far as i can see, that has already passed legislation that exceeds what we promised in paris. that's not enough, and we have to keep working on that. but we should look more at other big polluters and think about how we can engage in dialogue, because the discussion that we have here in europe, that we already have laws that exceed the target and we still want to go further, i don't have in other big economies. we need to work harder on that. and to convince the others, we must also take a path, as ursula von der leyen has outlined, where we take those affected, where we decarbonise industries and do not drive industries out of europe. i think this is the right way to go, bringing climate action and jobs together. then we can set an example for the rest of the world and win the day.
mr president, the number of people suffering from hunger is growing. the loss of biodiversity is reaching alarming proportions and climate change is accelerating while multilateral cooperation is threatened. the summit will take place exactly one year before countries are required to strengthen their national climate commitments under the paris agreement. these countries have developed their own climate action plans in line with the paris agreement, but the sum of these plans is insufficient to limit the rise in global warming to well below 2 degrees. it is therefore imperative that they strengthen their strategy to achieve the goals set under the paris agreement and increase their ambition to combat climate change. climate action and environmental protection are key tools in the fight against poverty, the fight against world hunger and migration issues. it is also essential that these measures, the measures that will be taken, be borne by all and that the burden of the effort is not placed solely on the most vulnerable populations in socioeconomic terms, both in our countries and in the less developed countries. i therefore urge the states to take strong and adequate measures which should reduce inequalities and not increase them. we cannot be satisfied with mixed ambitions, it is high time to be courageous and give ourselves the means to build a positive future. this is the time for action, not procrastination.
mr president, to paraphrase former french president jacques chirac, the house is on fire. but 17 years after the johannesburg summit, there is a difference: the world is watching, and will be watching again next week in new york, thanks to the initiative of the un secretary-general, antónio guterres. the commissioner has stressed that europe as a whole is in the middle of its ambitions and achievements. we're doing better even with 23 percent reduction in emissions already today. and yet 2019 has seen the same weather events repeated over and over again: hurricanes, floods, fires. as everyone knows, the paris targets are not enough, the united nations environment programme estimates that we will have to triple our efforts to limit warming to 2 degrees and for 1.5 degrees it is 5 times squared. it is therefore a question of determining together in new york how to go faster, how to go stronger. and then, most importantly, and knowing that we only account for nine percent of global emissions, to show others, the major polluting countries, by example, that raising climate ambition is boosting our economies and not the other way around. this is the whole point of mrs von der leyen's green deal, 100 days for a law that should be exemplary, indispensable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this summer the planet sent us some distress signals. the amazon is burning, the whole planet is suffocating. many young people are expressing anger and fear at climate change. scientists, researchers, they keep warning us. in the face of this reality, we cannot speak! we can't take any more empty words! disappointed! we need concrete actions and measures now. it is time for europe to set an example. i would remind you that no member state of the european union is complying with the paris agreement. then wake up! all sectors must be involved and therefore an ambitious taxation of aviation must be advocated at the icao general assembly this week. europe has a unique opportunity to make its voice heard. i hope you'll finally seize the opportunity and i'm telling you, if you don't do anything, tomorrow you'll be guilty of not only accountability, but criminal inaction.
mr president, commissioner, the climate change alarmists are also polluting more than some of us tell those who accuse us of being sceptics. and this is not my opinion, but it's the opinion of scientific studies published by the university of michigan last year. and you'd just have to look at the lifestyles of people like al gore, leonardo dicaprio or even some of the people in this room. ladies and gentlemen, no one is more concerned with the preservation of the natural environment than the political choice i represent, driven by an extraordinary love for our homelands. but i'm afraid that's not what we're talking about here today. today, here, and in a few days at the united nations, what will be discussed is a political agenda that disguises ideology as science, replaces superstition with revealed truth, and eliminates all scientific debate, replacing it with a girl's crying in prime time. this climate agenda is only going to benefit a few big globalist companies, destroying european industry, condemning millions of europeans to unemployment, and holding back development in africa, with a doctrine that is essentially, in our view, profoundly inhumane. in this parliament we talk about billions of euros, but we do not tell the european citizens that this money will come out of their pockets.
mr president, the sustainable development goals are extremely important in order to bring a better and more sustainable future for all of us. despite important progress being made, for example in sdg 3 (health) in terms of reducing child and maternal mortality and in other areas, there is still a lot to be done in climate, biodiversity, reducing inequality and hunger. climate will be for sure the most debated issue in the summit, but i would also like to draw your attention to sdg 10 (reducing inequality). worldwide, the majority of countries do not implement this sdg into their development plans, whether we are discussing health policies or economic growth, or even sustainable development. nowadays we can no longer just discuss inequalities in low income countries; this is also a challenge in high and middle-income countries. economic growth is very important, but concentrating only on economic growth will not reduce inequalities. we need dedicated policies in order to achieve this goal.
mr president, commissioner, the whole international community is going to meet next week to discuss the fight against climate change and the objectives of sustainable development. a meeting that has to be used to deal with something that is no longer a future threat, but a present emergency. and a meeting that should serve, above all, to move from rhetoric to action. from rhetoric to action, because in 2015 we as the international community approved the paris agreement to limit the rise in temperature on earth. well, the last four years have been the four warmest years on record. and this is also multiplying the climate catastrophes that we have recently experienced also in spain, in the form of floods. secondly, not just to move from rhetoric to action, but to ask and demand that the european union take the lead in this area. that we can and we must. the green transition, the decarbonisation of our economy and the reduction of emissions. we are aiming for a 40% reduction by 2030. we must set more ambitious targets and achieve them. and thirdly, to ask that this necessary ecological transition be a just ecological transition. because, like any transformation - and this one requires it in infrastructure, mobility and energy - it's going to need buffers to protect our jobs, to have a socially and equitably way out of this transition and to be able to send a message that ecological transition and social justice go hand in hand. let's do it now while we still have time.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking the commissioner for his tireless work to promote the green transition in the last term of office. the european parliament elections before the summer were a climate election. young and old citizens all over europe came forward and declared that this issue is so important that it is now and that it is urgent. there is therefore also good reason to look at whether we are delivering what we need from the eu. we are actually coming to the summit next week without really agreeing on the ambition we should have, namely a completely climate neutral eu by 2050. so we really still have a lot of homework to do to show the way, and we simply have to do it. this summit should really be about raising our ambitions and the eu taking the lead in this area. i have high hopes for the new commission and for the good plans of von der leyen. this must include a higher target for 2030 and a binding climate target, and it is urgent to implement all the excellent work that has been done in the last period, not least by commissioner cañete. let me end by thanking the commissioner once again, because this may be one of the last times we have the pleasure of seeing him in the house. congratulations on all the great, great work in the last period. it's urgent, we have much more to do.
mr president, commissioner, your work in a difficult portfolio such as energy and climate change has been a before and after for all europeans. you have been the architect, the engine of putting europe at the forefront of the fight against climate change to leave a better planet for all future generations. the paris agreement has been vital and it is fair to say here today that without your commitment it would not have been achieved, as you have also achieved the energy union, decarbonisation and taking action. your five years as head of the station are defined by one word: success; success that can only be achieved by working with passion, with your negotiating skills and with your vision. we spaniards always leave our mark wherever we go, but the mark of your passage through the commission will be as indelible as that of our dear loyola de palacio. as a spaniard, i say, thank you from the bottom of my heart. it's an honor to have a commissioner like you, and so let's continue in action at the new york summit next week.
on behalf of the renew group. mr. president, we are not here to assess ms. lagarde's credentials. the fact is that two weeks ago we had a meeting of the committee on economic affairs where we assessed her credentials and she passed the examination in an extremely satisfactory manner. we are here because some members want to use the opportunity to criticise the actions of the european central bank over the last seven years. the reality is that the european central bank has been the institution that has been willing to fight, the only one that has been willing to fight a recession and a crisis that would have had unthinkable consequences without its action. and some say: "monetary policy is trying to do too much, the european central bank is doing too much". and it's true, it's doing a lot, yes, but the reason is not because the european central bank wants it, the reason is because the member states are not doing their part. member states - as mrs lagarde said in her speech - can do quite a lot. on the one hand, half the member states of the european union have no deficit or are close to zero. given the context of virtually zero interest rates, they can invest in their future, not because they are very good and want to do good for other states, but because it is the right thing for their own citizens. in the same way, states with much less tax capacity, such as my own country, such as spain, can also do something. they can fight to make those structural reforms that are currently stalled - reforms in the education market or in the labor market - and that allow countries to acquire a much higher growth rate. finally, we, the european parliament and the european institutions, can also do much more. we have paralyzed files that we have to get going, like the common deposit insurance or the common unemployment insurance. we have a lot of things to do to get the growth rate back up. in short, we will vote for mrs lagarde because we think she is qualified. we think she's gonna do her part of the job. the question is, will we?
mr. president, as you know, the party that vox represented is radically against any foreign interference in the internal affairs of our country. we believe - obviously - in the sovereignty of nations and of member states, and i am glad that, for once in this parliament, other political options are coming to defend sovereignty and consider it inviolable. i would like to point out, however, that until the contrary is proven, the treaty on european union does not speak of european sovereignty, but only of the sovereignty of the member states. like many of you, we do not like the fact that russia can interfere in electoral processes, but we also do not like the fact that mr macron or 52 members of the french national assembly interfere in the electoral decisions taken in spain, deciding to support or criticize one or another country, one or another party in my country. we do not like foreign interference, but we do not want this to be the excuse for setting up a truth commission, like the one orwell set up in 1984, and for supranational institutions to tell us what should or should not be said by the nationals of each of the states.
the honourable member is requesting that the commissioner's office be informed of the progress of the investigation. in fact, the threat we are talking about goes much deeper than just disinformation, and we - like it or not - need to remember that the european union as such is not a global leader in data collection, in the development of artificial intelligence, or in understanding how to combat disinformation and other methods that undermine the foundations of democracy. what do we do in this situation? i see that we need to concentrate the resources we have and improve cooperation. the question is, are we doing it? we heard here about the call to create a new european democracy agency, but we forget -- and it didn't come out here -- that we have here, in the capitals of europe, the nato centre of excellence for strategic communications in riga, we have the nato centre of excellence for cyber security in tallinn, which is staffed by our own experts, most of the experts from these countries work there, and their institutions are much, much deeper. we look at it and we use that resource. the experience of finland, sweden, latvia and estonia in publicly available information on hazardous waste is to be used in these pages.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the council and the commission, fake news is indeed having a damaging effect on liberal democracies and is one of the most important challenges we face as a society. this type of news fake news creates confusion among citizens, erodes trust in institutions and induces citizen deception and, most importantly, generates political instability. the truth is - and we should not be fooled - that fake news is the tool of the enemies of open societies, it is the tool of authoritarian regimes that direct public opinion from power or populist forces that seek to condition public debates to achieve their goals. two clear examples of this are what we have recently experienced with brexit or what happened recently, what we suffered in spain, during the crisis of the secessionist challenge that occurred in the year 2017. on that occasion, the catalan independence movement showed its mastery of propaganda, manipulation and the dissemination of falsehoods, trying to project a negative image of spain that in no way corresponds to reality. this whole situation is not solved by censorship or limits on freedom of expression. this phenomenon highlights the need, now more than ever, for a media that guarantees the quality of the information it offers to the public. and we must also have an impact on education, by training responsible and critical citizens. we must also focus on the humanities and on training young people's skills. this is a long-term approach, it's an ambitious approach, but i think that's the key to tackling the fake news phenomenon with rigor.
mr president, we need a europe that protects people, and protecting people means strengthening, and this parliament should send a very clear message to the commission to protect european societies and institutions. the disinformation content, polarizing and based on nationalism, religious feelings, is targeted at certain groups groups such as migrants or people of different religious orientation, lgtbi people, etc. , promoting a discourse of hatred that, unfortunately, is widespread, and has also reached spain. and in the last election, we see how this hate speech has become political apologetics, with outrage against lgbt people and migrants, with falsehoods like ending the end of christian identity, and so on, and so on. we are looking for scapegoats and we are looking for scapegoats in those who defend these people and their rights. we're being branded as the enemy. these populisms are obviously financed by foreign entities. that is why we need a strong resolution from this parliament to protect individuals, and in particular, the groups have been included. we want to set up a special committee for the purpose of investigating this and for greater coordination between the member states.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the mostly intentional forest fires in the amazon have been a wake-up call and now we know better that they are happening elsewhere, to mention the hot spots: central africa, south-east asia, just to mention the most important ones. we also know that to tackle climate change, we need to capture carbon dioxide with all possible means, and the only viable large-scale way available is with the help of forests. however, forests are being converted to agricultural land and – let us be clear – the mercosur agreement is intended for exports of beef, soy, coffee and other forest-risk products that drive deforestation and endanger the amazon region. the mercosur deal currently does not have a viable mechanism to ensure that the paris climate agreement and other international environmental commitments would be respected. it has no teeth. there are no sanctions in that sustainable-development chapter and let me say that, as i understand it, the commission’s communication on deforestation and forest degradation contains one promise and that is to look into regulatory measures on the demand side, because we need badly european legislation which makes it sure for the european consumers that they are not buying deforestation. we are also complicit, and i would like to put a question to the finnish presidency because i know that it has now been decided that the agriculture council will deal with the communication on deforestation and forest degradation. how come only the agriculture council? why not the environmental council, for instance?
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, i'm hearing a lot about bolsonaro here. he is blaming bolsonaro for all the tragedy that is happening. and we are forgetting - i think there is a kind of blind eye in this parliament - to the things that are really happening. because what is being talked about, for example - the spanish socialists were talking about it now - is the search for gold and the devastation of the search for gold. that is happening especially in the amazon of venezuela, it is happening under the control of mr maduro, under the control of the colombian eln guerrilla groups, who are there thanks to the communist regime of mr maduro and chavismo. we have at this moment burning in bolivia they have already burned two and a half million hectares; in bolivia, not in brazil, in bolivia. no one talks about bolivia, because mr morales, who has increased and boosted coca cultivation for the manufacture of cocaine, has started to burn the scraps, and that is where a lot of the catastrophes come from. and here it seems that we only think of bolsonaro.
madam president, the amazon is burning. the planet is running out of time. at this point, and with the grave ecological crisis, we need to act firmly. some of the impacts of these fires have already been mentioned: loss of biodiversity, destruction of the forest to promote the interests of the meat industry, indigenous communities losing their territory. and, in addition, we are seeing the incompetence of bolsonaro and his far-right government, unable to face the problem seriously and responsibly and only concerned with distributing the cake among the oligarchies. that is with the help of the eu's trade policies. that is why it is not enough to allocate european funds, let alone allow a neo-fascist to manage them. we must face the consequences of our economic model. a moment ago the council representative asked us for proposals. here are some of them: the paralysis of mercosur, an agreement that is part of the problem; that we stop importing meat on a massive scale and that we endure production and consumption models that exploit the capacity of the planet. but above all, let us stop being complicit with those who sow death.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are actually debating the destruction of forests, jungles and biodiversity. and the council minister said it: leadership of the european union. let's not give up. private interests, the interests of industry and agriculture can be reconciled with the preservation of the environment. it's the sustainable development. now, you asked for ideas. i'll give you one. follow the forestry strategy of the european commission, which says that there are some products that come from this real forest plunder that we should not import, that we should restrict. ladies and gentlemen, we are fighting a battle. this parliament is fighting a battle this afternoon against genuine denialist predators. but we can win the battle with the leadership of the european union. without resignation and with consistency.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, first i would like to stress that this discussion was very relevant for our current and future actions. i would like to thank the honourable members for their interventions. the eu has built a very high profile in the sahel where we have really succeeded to implement an integrated approach as an illustration of how global strategy. next week high representative mogherini will have the opportunity to share these achievements in the margins of the un general assembly during a special event on mali and sahel. as coordination remains an important challenge, i will take this opportunity to welcome the recent g7 partnership on security and stability in sahel initiative as a contribution to support an integrated approach based on long-term vision and to avoid overlap. as a follow-up to the recent contacts we have had with our local counterparts and, based on today’s debate, be reassured that we cannot, and we will not, leave burkina faso alone in facing the challenges the country is confronted with.
the debate is closed.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the political situation and implementation of the peace process in colombia (2019/2813 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, three years ago, colombia demonstrated to the world that even the longest and most violent of conflicts can come to an end. no one imagined that building peace would be easy but, three years on, the great majority of colombians would never go back to the dark years of their country’s history. high representative mogherini was in colombia last week and she saw a country that looks forward, not backwards. president duque has confirmed his willingness to keep implementing the peace deal. the leadership of the farc as a political party and the vast majority of former fighters remain committed to the agreement. it is true that a small group of farc dissidents have decided to take up arms again. we have strongly condemned this announcement because more violence is simply not the answer to the challenges that the country is facing. but we must not forget that this is only a small group of dissidents. this doesn’t mean that we do not see the challenges the peace process is facing. the killings of local leaders, human rights defenders and ex-farc members are alarming and unacceptable. as the local and regional elections next month approach, we also see assassinations of candidates. the high representative has welcomed the actions taken by the government to ensure protection of those under threat, to bring the perpetrators to justice and to dismantle these criminal networks. but most importantly, she also offered the european union’s practical help. we are complementing government efforts through support to civil society, and have supported a special investigation unit in the prosecutor’s office and, together with the eu member states, the campaign ‘defendamos la vida’ all in all, this was the main message that she delivered to the government and the people of colombia: the european union is with you. we want to help colombia win the peace. during her visit to bogotá, the high representative announced a number of measures to step up our support to the peace process. she met with the top officials in the three main institutions of the transitional justice system: the truth commission, the search unit for missing persons and the peace court. she announced eur 4.5 million in support for the truth commission, which adds to our support for the search unit, and we are also planning to support the peace court. so far, the eu has invested around eur 645 million over these last years to support peace in colombia, including through the creation of a specific trust fund. the european union is also the largest foreign investor in colombia, with a special focus on sustainable development in the areas that were most hit by the conflict. on top of this, the high representative also announced a new package to support colombian solidarity towards refugees and migrants from venezuela. we are putting an extra eur 30 million on top of the eur 120 million already invested. there are now 1.4 million refugees and migrants from venezuela who have found refuge in colombia. columbia’s generosity in welcoming and hosting these people sets an example to the region and to the world. however, to praise is not enough. columbia and the countries from the region need more international support and the european union is doing its part, leading the way among the international community. the colombian people know that they can count on the continued commitment and support of the eu in their daily work to win the peace. since the peace deal was signed, the european union and its member states have invested eur 1.5 billion in support of peace in colombia. the people of colombia are showing an amazing courage and perseverance in seeking the mediations that are essential to build a truly inclusive and peaceful democracy. we believe in them. europe believes in colombia and we will keep supporting all of colombia’s peace builders.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, madam representative of the council, the implementation of the peace agreement with colombia requires a long-term vision. it is certainly a road full of difficulties and constant risks. that is why we need this vision and this long-term horizon. i would like to stress the importance of the financial support from the european union, in particular in the areas of reintegration and rural development, and i also welcome the announcement by the high representative of a new programme to continue to provide financial support to those who once decided to give up their arms and are firmly maintaining that commitment. on the other hand, as the colombian government is doing, it is essential to strengthen the measures to guarantee the security of the political and social leaders who are now being threatened and to bring to justice those who violate peace and the law. colombia has our full support. it is a very important trading partner for the european union and certainly an indispensable ally in the fight against climate change and the further protection of the environment. the security council and the high commissioner herself have stated - and i believe, too - that despite all the difficulties, the implementation of the agreement is progressing. he moves forward and he does it solidly. i would like to congratulate and publicly acknowledge the enormous effort made by president duque and his government. colombia has and will continue to have our full commitment. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen of the council, i would like to draw your attention to an important matter which you must deal with the high representative, who is not in this house today. yesterday ended in venezuela the dialogue facilitated by norway with a new ruse of maduro, which has only had an insignificant faction of the opposition. they said if that happened there would be sanctions. it's time to make that decision. it is time to increase sanctions against this corrupt regime that relentlessly violates human rights. if that were the case, the mogherini period would certainly not be a bad legacy.
i think it is very timely that we are here today in the european parliament to recall and underline our absolute support for the peace process. we are doing so now that we are entering the legislature; we are doing so now that the high representative has been in colombia, sending this message, reinforcing this message; and we are doing so now also because we see with concern things that are happening in colombia: difficulties in the implementation of the peace agreements and backward steps that some want to take with the return to violence. we want to highlight the difficulties in implementing a very complex process, something we recognize: the need to provide security for the social leaders in the country; the need for budgetary support; the need for the restitution of land and also to implement transitional justice, a central element of the peace agreements. for this the colombian government has our support, but we need to take steps forward and remind colombian society that this long and complex road has no turning back.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, the return of a small faction of the farc to armed activity should encourage us to redouble our efforts and the support that we are offering to the peace process in colombia from the european union. despite the difficulties in its implementation, today's colombia is working to ensure that almost fourteen thousand former guerrillas complete their reincorporation into ordinary civilian life. in the face of the murders of this and other groups, which must be stopped and thoroughly investigated, there is already a protection plan that must replace the measures that have been insufficient so far, for them and for human rights activists and journalists. i hope that its content and initial results will certify that there is a sincere commitment on the part of the authorities to correct a problem on which the credibility of all the actors depends. colombia is also better today because, in diagnosing the problem and in the measures to solve it, there is a social pillar, a set of measures that articulates the 20182022 plan for equity, which is spinning actions previously separated into various programs and attacks one of the roots of the conflict: poverty and inequality. at the beginning of the process, 36% of colombia's surface area was home to more than three million multidimensional poor and two and a half million victims, who added to their condition a chronic neglect of public services. correcting this inequality and promoting sustainable and cohesive development is another key to the success of the process. the exit is complex. added to this are unforeseen situations, such as the mass exodus of venezuelans fleeing the maduro regime, in whose territory farc dissidents seem to be taking refuge. that is why, today more than ever, the european union must redouble its political, financial and human support for peace in colombia. in the european union we know about rural development, public-private partnerships, mediation. continuing to bring this and other useful knowledge and learning from this experience is the best complement to the trust fund, diplomacy and bilateral cooperation programmes, which turn the words of the union's support for peace in colombia into deeds.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, the human rights situation in colombia has worsened in recent times. according to the program somos defensores, 155 human rights defenders were killed in 2018 and 25 in the first quarter of this year. colombia is also the second most dangerous country in the world for environmental activists, all in a climate of impunity and increased internal displacement. for all these reasons, and under the responsibility of the european union as a participant in the peace process in colombia, can the commission confirm that it will retain its special representative? when and how often will the commission convene a human rights dialogue between the european union and colombia? the greens/efa group also believe that it is essential for the european union to support mechanisms such as the special justice for peace and the extension of the mandate of the united nations human rights representative in colombia, which expires next october. finally, we believe that greater transparency is needed in the monitoring of european funds in colombia, which must be subject to compliance with human rights in the country.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, we all agree that colombia needs urgent help at this time. it needs urgent help not only because there is a part of the farc that has broken the ceasefire, that has withdrawn and is protected in venezuela and that is going to try to return to open terrorism, but also because there is all the eln, which is another of the terrorist organizations. they are in venezuela, they dominate, they control several states in venezuela. they're protected there. they are involved in the gold mining that is causing devastation in the orinoco, with the indigenous tribes largely fleeing to colombia as well, adding to that huge exodus that has gone to colombia and that is also a factor of destabilization and concern. there are now more than 1 400 000 venezuelans in colombia, 4 200 000 or 4 300 000 venezuelans fleeing the criminal regime of maduro, and i think it is time to support colombia, to support the colombian government, to prosecute the criminals and, of course, to put pressure on those who really have something to do with the destabilisation of colombia, who are in venezuela and who are also in havana, where mrs mogherini was last week, giving a speech in support of the communist regime, the communist dictatorship, which was a disgrace. the pressure on havana and caracas is also fundamental for the stability of colombia.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, mrs mogherini has just returned from colombia and knows full well that the duque government is deliberately breaching the havana peace agreements. the handing over of land to the peasants has not taken place. the multinationals and landowners continue to force the peasant population to leave their homes, relying on narco-paramilitary groups. the replacement of illicit crops has stalled and the leaders of those programs are being killed. and the reintegration program for ex-guerrilla fighters is not being implemented. but the most worrying thing is that the duque government has decided to end the special jurisdiction for peace, and this is causing a spate of deaths: more than 700 social leaders and more than 150 former guerrillas have been killed since its signing; and, at this moment, in the midst of the election campaign, more than 30 candidates have already been killed. despite everything, the farc are complying. the only guarantee for the non-recurrence of the conflict and the achievement of peace is the effective implementation of the agreements. the european union must demand that the colombian government also comply and make any economic, commercial or political cooperation conditional on such compliance.
mr president, the european union must be involved in the face of the threat posed by a split in the farc guerrillas returning to armed struggle. the peace process, which has been the focus of the union's commitment to colombia, is the only way to resolve this conflict which has put the stability of this region at risk. the venezuelan dictatorial regime is the one that offers support and encouragement to these guerrillas. this has been well reported by the colombian authorities. that dictatorship has forced more than four million venezuelans to leave their country, a figure that is increasing daily, and nearly two million have already settled in colombia. that country has taken it upon itself to provide health care, housing, and food for people who have been forced to emigrate. that is why i welcome the offer made by mrs mogherini last thursday to president duque to provide financial aid for programmes which will facilitate the integration of these migrants and promote the peace process and agreement by reintegrating the guerrillas. the source of the crisis in colombia must be stopped. the european union must therefore apply strong sanctions against the human rights violators in venezuela, who are the real destabilizers of this region. mrs mogherini said that if there were no concrete results from the barbados negotiations, the european union would impose them without delay. colombia needs and must stop suffering from the collateral damage caused by the maduro government.
mr. president, we all agree that the priority must be the safety and well-being of our brother colombian people. in this connection, we must keep in mind and bear in mind a subject that we must not neglect, namely memory. the guarantee of peace in colombia cannot and should not be used as an excuse, under any circumstances, to rewrite history, or to whitewash terrorists. only with justice will we ensure that peace is guaranteed. the signing of the peace agreements, unfortunately, has not brought an end to decades of suffering from terrorism, and this is coming from someone who, unfortunately, has lived in a country which has suffered in its own flesh the attacks and the pain of the victims of terrorism. that is why we ask you, and i personally ask mrs mogherini, not to confuse, not to think that this is a conflict between two sides, quite the contrary. this process must be based exclusively on the resignation, the surrender of the murderers to the murdered. this is very important for mrs mogherini to understand.
mr president, since we have been celebrating with satisfaction the signing of the peace agreement in colombia, not only have the commitments agreed upon - commitments which led to the end of one of the oldest guerrillas in the world - not been implemented, but we are experiencing a serious step backwards in this development. a part of that guerrilla - the farc - has decided to take up arms again. the rulers are also being faithful to their commitment to erode the peace process, an element that is reinforced precisely by the farc's dissent. of course we must continue to support - all members have said so - the process in the european union. the minister said that she needs international support, but she also needs political will at home; a political will which cannot be replaced by a financial injection. they commented "i'm not going to stress" the importance of colombia's stability in the rest of the region, because in the end we talk about colombia and we always end up talking about venezuela and i don't want to stress it. but the european union has to review and update its position in colombia, because things are happening that were not foreseen in the programme of our work there. and i think that, first of all, what the european union has to do is to appoint as soon as possible a new person to represent us in the peace process and to continue the work of eamon gilmore. because i think that with these kinds of facts is how we show our interest.
mr president, the peace agreement is just that, a peace agreement. it's an agreement between two different people and it's not about a surrender, as some part of the right in my country just didn't understand - as i just heard here. and what is at stake, it is true, is to fulfil what was stipulated in the peace agreement. it has not been easy for a country with hundreds of thousands of dead, with a long history of violence and hardship, and it will not be easy in the future, however much political will there is, to finally reach an agreement. the peace agreement was a starting point, but it was not the final agreement. i think that this parliament and the union and the commission and the high representative who comes must take into account that there is a humanitarian emergency as well, that it has to do with the refugees who are moving from venezuela and that it has to do with the closure of the borders around, and for which the country, colombia, also needs humanitarian aid, for attention at the moment and for attention in the future, because it does not seem that this jet of people who are crossing the border is going to end. we must be extremely demanding with the additional funds that are being allocated, with the aid that is being continued with all the will for the peace process, but at the same time we must not give up in our efforts, because the stability of the whole region and the very principles of the european union are at stake in this process.
mr president, we cannot frame the kashmir situation as an internal indian conflict, but as the nationalist resurgence embodied by modi in connection with trump, bolsonaro and the reactionary international. modi has come to power by attacking ngos and curtailing public freedoms. in the face of this, the european union cannot continue to do business as usual. we need to take a stand with an alternative, open discourse based on human rights and act conditioning foreign action and bilateral relations in it. today that means conditioning the strategic agreement on a substantial change in human rights in kashmir, betting on a peaceful solution to the conflict negotiated between india and pakistan. if we do not do this, kashmir will be a further example of the limits of the european union's voluntarism. today we need to define the kind of global actor we want to be. we are committed to an independent, autonomous political actor that can engage on an equal footing with the big countries on human rights, multilateral governance, trade and technology.
madam president, for spain, brexit is a transitional state that does not bode well. in our country, the region of gibraltar faces a probably catastrophic scenario. the brexit case threatens the gibraltar-spain border, an open wound today, through which more than 28 000 people pass every day, between 13 000 and 15 000 crossborder workers, people for whom we have no reliable, agreed and financed contingency plan. we do not yet know how we are going to prevent their work permits from being adversely affected, their wages and pensions from being reduced or the health care to which they are entitled from being degraded. if the united kingdom abruptly leaves the european union, there will be queues at the border for more than four hours, the supply of food and medicine, the supply of businesses, imports and exports and the influx of tourists will slow down. the path of roses that johnson dreamed of has already become an impassable quagmire, with parliament gagged and millions of people in the lurch. i hope they will be given a free choice, but if they leave, they must do so with responsibility. stop playing poker with people's lives.
madam president, more than 150 000 spaniards live in the uk and, in turn, 300 000 brits live in spain. for all those citizens, what mr farage called a clean break brexit is a very, very dirty brexit indeed. their situation is truly dramatic. just last week, i was in the uk talking to spanish citizens. their concern has to do with the so-called ‘settled’ status, which is anything but settled. it is just a pdf number they get on their email that actually confers no rights if mr johnson and mr farage proceed with their no—deal charades. we need to put ourselves in the skin of those citizens who, after possibly decades living in the uk, have no certainty about whether their lives there can continue. the eu is doing what it must to protect its citizens. the uk is not. we must stand with these proposals, and we must avoid a no—deal brexit that would be catastrophic for all european citizens. (applause)
madam president, almost 70 years ago we europeans decided to establish our political union, and we did so because we knew this was the best way to preserve peace in europe and also to tackle transnational challenges that now are very obvious to us, like climate change. unfortunately, in 2016, in the brexit referendum, a narrow majority in the uk voted for leave. at the time it was said that this was an existential crisis of the european union. but now, three years afterwards we see that the existential crisis indeed is in the united kingdom. the union is as strong as ever, as others have said before me, and now the question is: is boris johnson ready to fulfil the legal obligation deriving from the bill approved in the house of commons? we certainly hope so, because a no—deal brexit will be catastrophic.
madam president, i wanted to warn against attempts to present the european union as a unit which is watched over by a few soapboxes like mr verhofstadt, because that might frighten others who are still comfortable in the european union and want to reform it. we want to reform it, we want it to evolve, but we want to be in it. of course, if we hear the tone of some people and the lack of respect for the will of the british people, which has already been expressed and which must be respected, it is a little frightening. that's why i think it's important that we come to an agreement. it is true that it will be difficult, but there has to be an effort of goodwill, because we are going to have to coexist with the british, who are a fundamental piece of western defence, of the western world, and with them we are going to have to share a lot of things, not just the market, not just trade, not just defence, but the future. we don't break so many spears right now. it's important to live together and to respect each other.
madam president, i am pleased that this item has been brought up today at the very beginning of this sitting, which means that it will be one of our priorities. i believe there are no political differences here and that brexit should have nothing to do with this topic today. what i want to say is, we've heard from a number of speakers, that unfortunately cancer has become one of the leading causes of death in the european union, and particularly in the countries of central and eastern europe that have lower gross domestic product, and i think we need to correct that. so when we talk about equality, then equality also applies to this area: there must be equal access to medicines for every patient, no matter what country he comes from, and therefore i commend the work of the current commission and i hope that the new commission will continue, as announced by our new president in her priorities, to take this into account, to invest a lot of money in research. it's very important to invest in research, and as i said, to give all patients equal access, especially today to smart drugs. when it comes to plastics, lifestyle, pesticides, of course we have to balance that, and i'm confident we will do that in the future. so i expect the new commission to take this aspect into account, to bring forward a new european plan, a master plan, to fight cancer. i had a whole series of conferences in the last call, fight and win all over croatia and here in brussels. i believe that, whatever my future portfolio, i will be able to contribute within the commission to this fight against cancer because it is the fight of all of us, whether left, right or centre, and i thank mr weber for having led this through his campaign and for having put this item on the main agenda of this parliament today.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). in europe, one in ten people who develop cancer will get it through work. the commissioner has already pointed out that we have introduced three sets of limit values for carcinogens in the last five years. diesel vapour has been recognised as a carcinogen in europe for the first time. i'm actually quite proud of that. but of course, our ambition must not stop there. i think we should raise the bar. i think we should fight to ensure that no one gets cancer from work. i therefore call on the commissioner and his successor to introduce stricter standards for all harmful substances which cause cancer. because, let's face it, getting sick from your job is not a thing of the past!
madam president, i would like to ask you to spare me a few seconds of your time to thank the commissioner, who has said that he is going to other places. it has been a pleasure, mr andriukaitis, to work with you over the past five years to move the europe of health forward together. you may remember, three years ago, i was speaking to you in plenary and i read you the email from mrs heinen, the mother, like thousands of other mothers in europe, of a child with cancer. it called for more courage in the fight against this scourge, the disease that kills the most children in europe. parliament then unanimously adopted my resolution on the development of paediatric medicines, which called for specific evaluation of these medicines. for half of them, the only thing they do is divide the doses of medicines for adults! the evaluation of the regulation on paediatric medicines is therefore expected this year, and there is urgency. do you know that since 2006, only six new treatments for childhood cancer have been brought to market? my question is simple, commissioner: what are we going to say to mrs heinen and to those thousands of parents in europe? what measures have been taken in terms of research, innovation, paediatric needs and side effects, survival in the young? have we made any progress and how do we ensure that these lessons are being integrated into mrs von der leyen's cancer plan?
madam president, cancer is the second leading cause of death in europe, and there is a need to speed up research, since the causes of cancer are multiplying every day, whether environmental or psychological, and cancers are increasingly multifactorial. research, whether preventive or curative, which is already lagging behind, must therefore constantly adapt to these new aspects and strengthen cooperation both at european and international level. however, this requires that the powerful lobby of pharmaceutical companies, which generates a very large share of its turnover in oncology, be very largely controlled. the molecules already discovered must be brought quickly to market at prices that are affordable to all. it is necessary to strengthen, as has just been said, research in paediatric oncology, which is at a standstill in europe. the way must be opened for alternative and complementary therapies, such as cell therapy or phago-therapy, for example. but we must also break down all the trade taboos which are at the origin of the criminal stock-outs which are currently taking place in europe. at this price, european cooperation will be effective.
madam president! i agree with the last point, but we should be more vigilant about the pharmaceutical lobby, which is really reaping a rich harvest of human tragedy. and you're actually bringing up a series of numbers that are frightening, because each of those numbers is a human life, the life of a person who finds out that he has cancer, very often incurable. in 2015, one million three hundred thousand people in the european union died of cancer, which is more than a quarter of all deaths. malignant cancer is diagnosed in 35,000 children a year. 6,000 children die every year. often the parents of these children beg, beg for money to treat their sick children. so we need comprehensive interventions that will allow us to effectively fight cancer. legislation should be put in place to facilitate this and cooperation in cross-border research and knowledge transfer should be promoted at union level in order to better exploit the intellectual potential of researchers in all member states. we can reduce morbidity and mortality rates by sharing good practices, promoting healthy behaviours and, above all, by improving the quality of medical education.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the subject of cancer is a very personal one for many people, and so it is for me. some time ago, i lost one of my best friends to cancer at the age of just 46. that's one of the reasons why i've been working with manfred weber and many others for a long time to get us to take this issue more seriously. we, the epp, committed ourselves two years ago to doing our part to make it possible that in 20 years' time no one will die of cancer. we cannot do this alone; the member states also have a great responsibility, but under the principle of subsidiarity much is possible. for example, we can make sure that the data is better connected. we have a lot of cancer registries, but they don't match. we can't help the patient in the best way. we need more european cooperation. we need more research. i would appeal to the council: the horizon cuts are the opposite of what we can use. but i would also like to mention my british colleague from the brexit party, who has unfortunately left the chamber. the experts, for example the british medical association, say there is a problem with medical care in brexit and particularly in a hard brexit. you can't ignore that. the brexit party behaves like someone who sets a fire and then insults those who say it is burning and that it must be put out. you 're playing with patients ' lives . we have to make sure that they are aware of this, and we will say so.
madam president, i welcome this debate in the house and i welcome the fact that the letter of acceptance of the new commissioner for health puts the fight against cancer at the top of the agenda. the fundamental pillar of the fight against cancer is prevention. we must advance health education, that is, clearly inform our citizens about risk factors, but also legislate. we are seeing, for example, that in the fight against tobacco, new products such as vapers can give a false image of benignity, and i think our legislative framework is not currently ready. as regards the promotion of research for diagnosis and treatment through horizon 2020, i would like to stress the importance of supporting those initiatives that work on the innovation of liquid biopsy, which is one of the alternatives that can help early and rapid diagnosis. ladies and gentlemen, despite all our efforts, people will continue to die of cancer in europe. we must not forget the family dimension of this disease, the care of those who care for them - i am a nurse - and, of course, the importance of guaranteeing these patients a chance to die with dignity.
madam president, research and innovation are essential if we are to win the battle against cancer. and it is precisely in this area that this parliament can play a fundamental role. because it is this parliament which can demand, for example, that the horizon europe programme should contain sufficient funds for our researchers to be able to work. we also need better coordination between research centres, hospitals, patients and businesses, so that new medicines can be developed, and they can be brought to market in the shortest possible time and leave no one behind. and this is also where we need to legislate to allow the application of new technologies, such as the use of artificial intelligence on patient data, that is, making sure that their rights are going to be scrupulously respected. in short, i wanted to send a message to the public that we in the european institutions will work together to ensure that researchers have all the resources they need to fight this terrible disease.
madam president, europe faces many well-known challenges, such as brexit, but thousands of european citizens are facing a terrible reality that has less media impact but a great importance: cancer, which is plaguing europe. we've all suffered from cancer up close. the reality of the figures is undeniable: 1.4 million europeans will die of cancer this year; 40% of european citizens will face cancer at some point in their lives. despite this harsh reality, there is reason for hope. cancer mortality has gone down by 10 percent. between 30 and 50 percent of cancers are preventable. how did you do that? transforming the habits of our lives, of our children, of all of us. we must promote a healthy diet, care for the air we breathe. we must move away from sedentary lifestyle and smoking. but we also need to look after the mental health of our society: stress, depression, anxiety. in short, the fast-paced pace of our lives. to achieve all these objectives we need to have a european approach, improve partnerships, improve prevention and early detection, increase investment in research, equity in access to treatment in all corners of europe and improve the humanization of patient care so that it is holistic and covers everything from medical to social support to patients. cancer has many faces, and we need to address all of them. this is the aim of the european people's party's plan to fight cancer, a plan which will help to defeat the disease and which will give life and hope to thousands of europeans. we therefore ask president von der leyen to make the fight against cancer one of the commission's top priorities.
madam president, i come from the south, from the second country in the world with the most mass graves as a result of a fascist dictatorship. i come from a country full of squares and streets named after francoist murderers. of the country with no memory that has erased from its public life what happened in its recent history. it is striking that this parliament, through this resolution, is making use of history and not making a single mention of what is still happening in spain. we don't just talk about the past, we also talk about the present. it would be very desirable if, when we discuss memory, we also talked about the role played by the spanish republican fighters in stopping fascism in europe. or the example of solidarity of the international brigades. we therefore take this opportunity to demand a directive on remembrance and reparation which gives value to the anti-fascist struggle and adequate funds for the exhumation of graves of franco's regime in spain. the essential reminder in europe today, plagued by new fascisms, is that we must recognise the role of those who gave their lives to fight them.
we shall then move on to the requests outside the agenda, and there are now so many that i can accept perhaps less than half of them, five. actually, there are 15 and the hearing is still on.
madam president, commissioner, it is of course important that european society does not forget its past. it is necessary to remember, know and learn from our history, with its lights and shadows. remember and honor the victims. and the importance of remembering what he fought for, which is the freedom that we all enjoy. but, gentlemen, i would like to alert you to something i observe with great concern. and it's to alert them that it's not our job to write history. politicians should not impose a single story. you can't use history as a political weapon. i know what i'm talking about, because this is what the spanish left has been trying to do for a few years now, with the historical memory law in spain. you can't impose a single story of history by law. the task of writing history is the job of historians, ladies and gentlemen, of historians. our job, yours and mine, is to ensure that historians can work in a framework of freedom. and on the other hand, education. the education of the new generations in the humanities. it is the humanities that form the judgment and critical capacity that equip people with the tools to reason and seek the truth.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, i want to say to the commissioner and the council representative: let’s be honest, the reason we are here is because the anti-money laundering system is not fit for purpose. it just doesn’t work. we hear about a lack of resources. we had a hearing with the commission and with the european banking authority and we hear about a lack of resources, legislation that cannot be implemented, legislation that is different in every country, lack of personnel, three to eight people. it is really, really not fit for purpose and we all agree, and citizens have to agree. they are worried because combating money laundering is basic to fighting against every possible crime, from drug trafficking to people trafficking. fighting against money laundering is fighting those terrible crimes. why does the system not work? the system doesn’t work because states don’t have the incentive to have a system that works: states have an incentive to get capital when they need capital. so, at the end of the day, if the capital includes proceeds from places which are not very clear, we turn a blind eye. and the problem is that the system is as strong as the weakest link. if only one state has a bad system, we’re going to have a problem in all the other states. we heard about the danske bank scandal – eur 200 billion of money laundering! what is really scandalous about this problem is not just that no action was taken, and not just that the estonian and danish regulators let it happen, because for each it was the problem of the other: it is that, when it came to the eba, the states said that, because there was no european legislation involved, there was nothing to be done. we believe that this parliament is united. i’m proud to have worked with my colleagues to have a resolution together. parliament believes that the commission needs to do its work, the council needs to do its work and parliament needs to do its work so that these agencies are well resourced, so that we have the resources to fight against money laundering, so that we have legislation that can be applicable everywhere in the european union, and so that we have a system that is european and that works for all.
i would like to express my satisfaction that it was easy to reach agreement on this motion for a resolution with the other groups, and i believe that it was easy to reach agreement because the degree of deterioration of human rights makes it increasingly difficult to find alibis or justifications for what is happening in turkey. it is obvious to everyone that the turkish penal system is a device used and sometimes designed to silence political criticism. at this moment, the groups are concerned about what has happened with the governmental/administrative dismissal of several mayors and their replacement by the government itself, by unelected officials appointed by the executive. i would like to stress that this is not a question of limiting rights after a court proceeding. no, it is simply the removal of a mayor, newly elected by his fellow citizens, by the government, that is, by a competing party, and the appointment to that post of a leader of that same party. there is therefore no process, no judge, no guarantees. and, moreover, this procedure is used to threaten other mayors, as has been the case with the social democratic mayor of istanbul, who had to win the elections twice for the power to understand that his popular support was much higher. but i want to point out that, in addition, with the case of these hdp mayors, it is not a question of party solidarity, what we are doing is a defense of local democracy in turkey, whatever the acronyms of the mayors who are affected by these situations. look, ladies and gentlemen, there's a lot going on in turkey. the insecurity of power to maintain control of society is becoming more and more obvious. i believe that the european union must review its working arrangements in turkey, because there are more and more areas of hope opening up in the country.
mr president, the diyarbakir, van and mardin mayorships have been intervened by the erdogan government. to prop up his regime, he removes and jails mayors, left-wing activists, feminists, critical teachers and any form of dissent. and all this is happening with the complicit silence of the european union. we have given over two billion euros to erdogan for border management alone. the figure is higher if we include the neighbourhood funds and the funds itself which it receives as a candidate for joining the european union. and this aid has a clear plus: that the european union looks the other way when the akp government attacks the rights of the majority. it is essential that all european union cooperation with turkey, including accession negotiations, be frozen until turkey complies with the most basic human rights standards, starting with the release of all political prisoners. as long as the european union continues to put its economic interests or its xenophobic migration policies above the rights of the turkish and kurdish peoples, neither this parliament nor any other community institution will be able to give erdogan lessons in human rights.
mr president, 'i will make you all suffer' were the words of the judge who sentenced three iranian women for peacefully protesting against the compulsory islamic veil. sentenced to long prison terms in a trial without guarantees and previously beaten and tortured. since january 2018, dozens of women have been arrested in iran for protesting against the compulsory veil, and more than fifty people detained for their struggle for women's rights. the compulsory hijab is pure gender apartheid, a discriminatory imposition that marks the lives of thousands of girls and women. but no culture, national identity or religious belief can be used to violate our dignity and our rights. not to dress, not to undress. we want the iranian authorities to be urged to quash the convictions and release the arbitrarily detained women defenders; to guarantee their access to justice and to protect their right to freedom of expression, assembly and non-discrimination. we don't think that women who cover themselves are submissive and women who don't are empowered. what we want is for our bodies to stop being used as religious symbols and national flags in every corner of the world.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. let me highlight another aspect. i am appalled by what is being reported about the telephone call between mrs merkel and british prime minister johnson. i 'll start with the best part . merkel has probably said that germany could leave the eu without any problems. it's an option, but it's not a pretty one. but the uk, according to the chancellor, is likely to have different rules. the uk, she says, can leave if it leaves northern ireland in the customs union with the eu forever. mrs merkel apparently wants to split britain in the event of brexit. what arrogance of power! the united kingdom will then become a divided kingdom. i find this unbelievable from mrs merkel, who herself grew up in a divided country. how dare you! or in english, "how dare you!" you should know what that means. in fact, mrs merkel has said that a deal is impossible without undermining the sovereignty of the united kingdom. if you are looking at the future border between ireland and northern ireland, take a look at the border between norway and sweden. that's fine too. in this context, it is safe to say that further negotiations and an extension under article 50 will not be necessary. i would like to ask you to be honest with yourself here in the house and to admit that the eu institutions are doing everything possible to prevent and make impossible an orderly withdrawal of the united kingdom. and you are politically clever enough to do the same thing, namely to blame the united kingdom for the black peter. britain should now pull the trigger, there will be no orderly brexit on eu terms, the earth will continue to spin, the economic damage will be smaller than forecast. politically, it will be a liberation for the british.
madam president, the moral superiority, the arrogance that we are seeing on the part of the social democratic consensus is very frightening, even for those of us who are firm supporters of the european union, who believe in subsidiarity, who believe in sovereignty, but who believe in a european union. we are frightened by attitudes like those of mr verhofstadt, who really has no respect for the opinions of all those who disagree. how is it really that arrogance is constantly being shown when one speaks of a state that has spoken, of a nation that has had an opinion and that has asked to leave here. another arrogance that is very worrying, when we talk about the climate, when we talk about the environment, is the moral superiority that already exists among certain radical groups, which are agitated by the media and by the european union itself as well, to coerce citizens in their daily lives: how streets are blocked, how people are coerced in their daily lives. it is a danger of radicalisation, which is being fed from the european union. and we have to be very careful, thinking about previous radicalizations.
mr president, on the question of brexit, i take up the words of the chairman of my group and of the other colleagues who have spoken, in particular javier moreno, who spoke just before me. i would like to point out, with regard to another subject on which the european council will be concentrating, the next multiannual financial framework, and taking advantage of the fact that the council representative, the minister, is here, that there are a number of programmes which are very important in creating and strengthening european citizenship. i am referring to erasmus+, the european solidarity corps, the europe for citizens programme and also the creative europe programme. it is important that these programmes, in this new multiannual financial framework, receive adequate funding, which means that it must be higher than what they have received so far. on the question of enlargement, to which the president of the commission has referred, i must say that we must indeed give serious thought to whether we can continue this process without first reforming the existing treaties.
mr president, i have to say... thank you very much to the president of the european investment bank for being here with us today. i welcome your approach with great enthusiasm and i just wanted to raise four specific points quickly. i believe that we must transform the european investment bank into a european sustainable investment bank. that means that all the bank's investments must take account of the climate neutrality criterion, probably in the framework of a gradual process. secondly, in order to finance the green deal proposed by the commission, the issue of green bonds by the european investment bank will probably have to be extended. can you say anything about that? i know that the eib is already the world's leading institution, but perhaps we can go further. thirdly, a more specific question: the possibility of financing the bio-industries field, in projects which receive a positive rating from the joint undertaking for bio-industries (bbi) but for which no financing is available. and finally, if you can say something about the possible uses of the profits of the european investment bank.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the socialist group supports the suggestion to introduce this topic on the agenda. new evidence and some important leftovers from the previous term show that preventing conflicts of interest will be crucial in this term. we express our support to commissioners—designate šefčovič and jourová, who will play an important role in this topic. we need a horizontal and holistic approach. several committees will be involved in the ongoing reflection. we will be called upon to touch on this matter in several political and parliamentary forms: by improving and readapting our rules of procedure; by reopening interinstitutional negotiations; by asking for new and ambitious legislative files, like the staff regulations; and by enhancing the regulations on eu funds. a more pragmatic and flexible approach is also necessary, taking into account lessons from the recent past. we need to be firm in stressing again the ambitious ep proposals set in the transparency register negotiations, as well as in finally finding a way to achieve stronger transparency in all the eu institutions, notably in the council. we, therefore, look with attention at the ethics body announced by president—elect von der leyen. we will be ready to assess it, bearing in mind that we believe that ordinary legislative proposals or proposals under the ordinary legislative procedure, for instance, on the issue of revolving doors, are the key instruments to really push the transparency of the institutions.
the question of the 'blue card'. mr president, before making any biased innuendoes about mr borrell in this house, i would like you to ask, for example, his representative at the hearing why he did not ask you. because i was in the audience and i didn't hear you ask him about it. so if you were so concerned about these amounts - that you don't know where you got them from - you should have insisted on your training representative at the hearing asking. do you know what happened? that he didn't.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a very important debate, perhaps we should have had it earlier. we are talking about conflict of interest prevention, integrity, ethics, and we see that there is a very big difference between the european institutions. the board says they're not ready to have any discussion on this yet. the commission has other rules, the european parliament has other rules. every state has different rules. the common standards were discussed here, and i would add: yes, i am in favour of having that body, but a colleague here said that we must do these analyses in a coherent chronological order. how, for example, to announce the president of the commission and then find out that it is not a good team. i mean, these integrity checks for commissioner proposals, the concrete thing that we have now, should have been done before. and yes, i want it to be a single unit of measurement, because it's very important not only to have a code and to have measures, but how we put them into practice is very important. that is why i ask the commission and parliament to consider, and the council, to have a single unit of measurement for analysing the integrity of those who work, not only of the members of the european parliament, not only of the commissioners but also of the civil servants. thank you. thank you.
mr president, let us be clear and direct. the promiscuity between political and economic power is thus a kind of watermark of the european union. the conflicts of interest we have discussed here are present in the day-to-day work of the institutions. the former president of the european commission, when after the financial crisis caused by the banks he wanted to promote a new regulatory framework for the financial sector, was to call representatives of the mega banks to go ahead with the lines with which this regulation was going to be sewn. we know how the story ends: we know where the former president of the commission is today, and several members of his college have followed the same path. the commission's proposal is to be implemented by the end of the year, and the council's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. the list is long and there are no codes of ethics and conduct which, on their own, are capable of solving this situation. we need a fundamental, structural, systemic change in policies, a change that will orient them towards defending the public interest and not the interests of economic and financial groups.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me tell you something. i’m really very proud that i am part of this commission and i’m very proud of what president juncker did. we really strengthened the rules on conflicts of interest, the code of conduct of the commissioners. so, when you compare what we did in this commission to other institutions, to other member states, we did an amazing job of strengthening the rules of transparency, of trust with the citizens, and we really are very, very keen on telling this not just to this house but to the european people. i think that that, for me, is essential as a message of tonight on this debate. secondly, trust and transparency, as you’ve said, so many of you, are crucial in the times that we live in, the times of the digital technology, exactly because without that there is no democracy. and we all agree on that. but there’s one thing that i think was very clear from the president-elect: we need to have an independent body for all eu institutions. i think that the political guidelines for the next commission are very clear on that. thank you very much for the debate and for the ideas. i think that it is crucial to really discuss this point and so i’m very happy to be here today as a commissioner and to be present at this debate which is crucial for the future of europe.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, i wish to thank you for this very useful debate. the issue of preventing conflicts of interest is an important one. regarding the creation of a possible body to examine ethical issues at this stage, no proposal has yet been delivered by the commission and, consequently, as i said, the council is yet to formulate a view. we are open to dialogue with the commission and the european parliament and are waiting with interest for possible further developments in this area. as regards the question concerning corporate sponsorship, i would like to answer that we do not expect to have any discussions about corporate sponsorship of the eu presidencies with other member states because this is a matter that falls within the remit of each member state. but during our presidency, we are enhancing transparency in many ways. for instance, we keep an open list of our eu-related ministerial meetings. you can find the list openly on our presidency website. now, transparency is a joint effort. let’s work together towards that goal. thank you very much once again for your very important remarks and for this useful discussion.
the debate is closed.
the following is the debate on the commission statement on us customs tariffs on european goods following the wto decision in the airbus dispute (2019/2846(rsp)). before we open the debate, i would remind you that we are once again using the electronic registration system for the 'catch the eye' and 'blue card' procedures. the members know that they can still use the traditional route, although they are invited to use the new electronic system.
member of the commission. – mr president, minister, honourable members of the european parliament, notwithstanding our efforts to find a negotiated solution in the aircraft files, the us has announced that it intends to avail itself of the full the rights awarded to it by the wto. the us decision follows the wto arbitrators finding on the level of possible us countermeasures, establishing that level to be up to usd 7.5 billion, which is eur 6.9 billion. the us tariffs will apply as of 18 october, after the wto dispute settlement body has formally authorised the us to impose the countermeasures. the meeting of the dsb is scheduled for 14 october. let’s be clear: we regret deeply the us decision to go ahead with the imposition of tariffs. while authorised by the wto, it will only inflict damage on businesses and citizens on both sides of the atlantic. the us product list mainly targets new civil aircraft produced by airbus. the product list also includes a range of agricultural and industrial goods exported by different eu member states. the additional duties are at rates of 10% on civil aircraft and 25% on a range of agricultural and industrial products. the us will impose 25% duties on a number of agricultural and manufactured goods. some eur 4.3 billion in exports to the us will be affected. so we’re talking about 60% of the total value of the list, including iconic eu products like french wine, scotch whisky, italian parmigiano, irish butter, spanish olive oil, german household machinery, greek peaches and dutch cheeses. the main burden of these additional duties will fall on products exported by the four airbus member states – france, germany, uk and spain. so that will be 87% of the total value of the list. other member states, like italy and ireland, will also be affected, although to a lesser degree. we’ve noted that the iconic products such as italian wine or olive oil and pasta, as well as irish whiskey, have been spared from tariffs. the published rates of 10% to 25% will allow trade to continue, even if in reduced quantities. but many companies and workers will be affected negatively. while we regret the us decision to go ahead with the imposition of tariffs, we have to remember that the us have followed all the steps prescribed by the wto in a dispute that has been ongoing for 15 years. so we should avoid overreaction and respect our international obligations. an arbitrator will in some months decide, in the parallel boeing case, what level of countermeasures the eu will be entitled to apply on us imports. the commission made a serious offer to settle the aircraft disputes in july, and so we remain open to reach a negotiated outcome, in which we would notably agree on new rules on subsidies that could apply also to other plane-makers around the world. we must bear in mind that new highly-subsidised competitors from china and russia are preparing to enter these market and may seriously disrupt it if we don’t take urgent action. it remains to be seen whether, with the tariffs in place, the us will now start to give more positive signals about a negotiated solution to the dispute. in the press release accompanying the list, it explicitly said that it is ready to do so. we are ready to negotiate even with tariffs in place, provided that the us is ready to agree on a balanced solution, which will also need to end the subsidies provided to boeing. there have been calls for a compensation mechanism for farmers, and i would only comment that we must try to settle this dispute in the next months and put an end to a self-defeating cycle of tariffs and countermeasures and counter-tariffs. this is the greatest service we could provide to those negatively affected by the us measures. our common interest is probably best served by exploring a fair and balanced outcome with the us as rapidly as practicable.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, last week’s wto airbus ruling is not a ‘nice victory’, as us president trump tweeted, but proof that multilateral dispute settlement delivers. the us administration should, therefore, also not forget this when it comes to appointing new members to the wto appellate body. we respect the wto ruling, but we regret the us decision to choose tariffs over talks, especially in the light of the boeing ruling expected for early 2020. it, equally, makes no sense for our farmers, companies and workers to foot the bill for a dispute over aircraft subsidies. our hands remain extended to find a negotiated settlement in the case where both the eu and the us were found guilty of illegal aircraft subsidies. should the us, however, decide to trigger more tariffs then we will have no choice but to respond in kind. my group, and i believe, this house will support the commission in a firm response if needed.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this time, mr. trump's tariffs are legal. that's the special thing about this procedure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this time it's legal. and we accept that, of course, because we as the european union, we as the european parliament, are committed to the rules of the wto. but it is a joke of history that this president, who is now building on these legal tariffs, is preventing the wto jurisdiction from continuing in the same breath. in december we will have only one judge on the wto court of appeal, and then there will be no judgments to resolve conflicts, and he can continue to enforce the illegal tariffs. this is a scandal and that is why we must negotiate, we must find a solution, because an escalation stage - the tariffs imposed, we are imposing tariffs - is not helping anyone. so, yes, negotiate, although it's certainly difficult with mr trump.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, to say that we regret the decision of the us administration without saying first that we regret the mistakes that we made years ago is hypocritical. i believe we should not get all worked up. as the boeing case has not been adjudicated fully, it will not be possible at this moment to square it off against the airbus case. but let’s not get distracted from the real issue. the real issue is that we have a basic conflict between this house and the european union on one hand and the us administration on the other and, hopefully, some of our american colleagues would be on our side of this conflict over multilateralism in the global trade order. and i believe we can use this particular experience to argue very simply: ‘the wto works, let’s not destroy it’.
in the name of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the condemnation of the airbus consortium by the wto will enable the united states to impose $7.6 billion in new tariffs on european goods. although italy is not part of airbus, the costs will be borne by its various sectors, in particular the dairy sector, which has nothing to do with aviation. the united states now has the knife at the end of its sleeve and calls for euro-atlantic cooperation will certainly not be enough to stop its tariffs. the phantom european interest is a mere illusion. merkel and macron are only concerned with their own national interest, just like trump. in this european union, italy has to pay for italy's problems, such as the invasion of migrants, while the problems of the franco-german axis, the banks and airbus are ultimately paid for by all european countries. why has the commission, which has been so strict in other cases, not been vigilant in this case about irregular aid? how does it intend to remedy the damage that will be done to a sector, the agri-food sector, which has already been guilty of being sacrificed in free trade agreements with non-eu countries?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, trade commissioner malmström told the press a few days ago that the european union had very little to do and very little room for manoeuvre. how can you say that? it's not true, man. there have been other cases, for example, when president juncker ran to the white house to ask president trump not to harm german cars. when the russian veto was invoked, the european union was so diligent that within a week there was a regulation with compensation. what's the matter, man? are there first-class citizens and second-class citizens? since april, the european union has known that these us tariffs were going to come into force, and little or nothing has been done to reassure the agricultural sector. gentlemen, we cannot go to war with the united states of america, because our agriculture could not support it, given the precarious situation in which it finds itself. if we cannot reach an agreement that is satisfactory to both sides, what we have to do is to demand that the european union be held accountable, that it provide solutions to the spanish agricultural sector - which i represent - and that it be as diligent as it has been on other occasions.
mr president, mr commissioner, the threat of trump's unfair and harmful tariffs is endangering a multitude of sectors, products, workers, farmers and thousands of families in spain and europe. spain is one of the worst-affected countries. the european union must respond firmly to the threat of tariffs, barriers and impositions in order to defend economic freedom and the unity of the market. we cannot leave the answer in the hands of individual countries alone. a united european response is needed. spain, unfortunately, is faced with a socialist government which, instead of being in office, is on holiday. and with trade wars, we all lose. and trump intends to punish some countries more than others, to break our market unity and punish those sectors in which we are world leaders. let's not fall into his trap of not going together. we ask you, commissioner, for unity, for a solution, for aid to the sectors and countries concerned and for more transatlantic relations.
madam president, commissioner, in the last few days i have received a great deal of concern from spanish farmers, producers and workers about the trump administration's decision to increase tariffs by 25% on such important products as wine, oil and cheese. and they asked me what was their fault, because they had not received subsidies from airlines, they had not given them, they had not litigated for 15 years in an endless way, they had not distorted any market. however, their products now had to bear directly the cost of tariffs and the cost of a penalty. and then i hear you say, "we're sorry". it's all very well to be sorry, it's great, but what else, besides being sorry, are you going to do? it says, "don't overreact". that's great, too. but what else are they gonna do? because farmers, producers and workers with this do not have enough. does the commission intend to evaluate and decide to implement a contingency plan that adequately responds to the needs of citizens, workers and farmers? because that is their obligation, in addition to negotiating properly, to give a real and immediate solution to those citizens, to those sectors, to those producers who will have a direct impact, being hostages to a situation they have not caused. the future of agriculture and, above all, the credibility of the union depend on you and your good work.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, europe has lost on airbus and will probably win in a few months on boeing. the main question is: what is the commission's strategy in trying to recover the damage we are suffering? there are rumors that a big part of the commission's strategy is to identify, in the boeing reaction, a surgical strategy to go and hit the federal states with tariffs that are supposed to be strategic for trump's re-election. but are we sure this is the right strategy? and if trump wins the election again, what will be our attitude? we'll have the enemy of enemies, built and supported by our strategy. i'm not sure. we are reviewing the rules of the wto, we are creating the conditions for dialogue with our natural ally, the united states, and we are not compensating by subsidizing our entrepreneurs. he doesn't need this. let us give them the chance to remain in the most interesting market for us europeans, which is the united states.
madam president, i would like to tell you a story. a genius promised a traveler to give him anything he asked for, on one condition. i'd give his worst enemy twice what he'd choose. he chose to stay blindfolded. that's what trump has done. trump, who has never believed in the wto, has been quick to announce retaliatory measures against many european products. in the case of spain: oil, olives, wine, ham, cheese and fruit. we could do the same. we could ask for compensation for the damage caused by the export companies, foreign sales corporations, 'doped' with more than 24 billion dollars. we can also ask for a penalty on american products worth 10 000 million dollars, which is the value of the reliefs granted to boeing by the state of washington. but in this strategy, the only winners here would be the lawyers and china. the only solution is to acknowledge that we've both sinned. forgiving each other and sitting down at a table to set the rules for the future. but to bring the americans to the table, does the commission believe that german prudence or french firmness is better? and on another matter, does the commission intend to draw on the european government adaptation fund to compensate the sectors hit by the american tariffs?
president, global trade tensions are escalating. reciprocal import duties and sanctions will only result in losers in the end on both sides of the ocean. the ruling on boeing is still to come. the industry is not only in difficulty in europe but also in the united states. why should our farmers and mussel fishermen be punished by the americans for an old conflict over airline subsidies? the commission has already taken action to ensure that the eu's financial interests are protected. that's not just any thing. we must therefore work with the americans to reduce tensions and negotiate a solution. it's the best thing for both america and europe. but if the americans strike us, unfortunately european countermeasures will have to be taken. we in europe are reaching out for a fair negotiated solution. international trade based on rules is the key to our prosperity and is in the interest of all of us. that is not only true of europe, but certainly of america.
madam president, colleagues, i agree with commissioner malmström that airbus-linked tariffs are short—sighted and counter—productive. we repeatedly said that we were ready to find a fair and balanced solution to this 15-year-old legal battle. also, a year ago presidents juncker and trump agreed not to escalate trade disputes. i can only hope that, like commissioner malmström, also phil hogan, will spare no effort to engage deeply with the us on this. i understand also that negotiations are planned, and we should exploit fully a chance to find a solution before the tariffs become effective. but in more general terms, let me say that we should be worrying actually that in our transatlantic relations it is getting hard to find anything working well. we didn’t manage to convince the american administration that trade deficit is not a good measure of how we benefit from trade. the elections next year will make it also very difficult to move toward a positive eu-us trade agenda, but we should seriously think of a new, comprehensive reset between the european union and the us. i think europe needs it, but i dare say also the global economy needs it.
madam president, commissioner, that is a very nice victory. that's how mr. trump last week called the imposition of $7.5 billion in tariffs on european farmers. i very much doubt that this is a victory for anyone, but it is undoubtedly a serious defeat for european farmers and producers, and especially for the spanish. if it is approved, we will lose a key export market, businesses will suffer losses in the millions and thousands of jobs will be at risk. but in the face of these unjust attacks by trump, the european union must rise to the occasion, and farmers and ranchers are waiting for action to be taken to cushion the damage. i am going to put three measures on the table: coverage of storage and financial costs in the case of olive oil; support for campaigns to promote spanish products to offset the loss of market share; and, finally, the activation of exceptional measures of the wto to support producers in cases of serious market imbalances, as has already happened with the crisis with russia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to take this opportunity - because i do not know whether i will have the opportunity any longer - to congratulate federica mogherini on her excellent work and commitment over the last five years. i also wish him well and that he will continue to help the european institutions from now on. on the question of ukraine, i think we should not forget that this debate affects all the countries of the european union, because perhaps we tend to think that this is a problem which affects only our friends in central and eastern europe. just as, for example, the management of migration flows should not be a matter of concern only for the countries on the southern border. it is important that we think of europe in the context of cross-solidarity. this debate is also very important for safeguarding the political stability of the whole region, for maintaining a sound neighbourhood policy and for allowing ukraine, if it really wants to have a european perspective, to make democratic progress in this direction.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in some cases, we are in favour of the use of gmos. we therefore want to have a major substantive discussion shortly on the application of gmos, the risks and the potential of using gmos. i myself do not agree with this objection because i think that the european commission has not done anything wrong. if you think the outcome should be different, then it is the job of the legislator - amongst others we here - to amend the legislation and give the commission a different mandate. how many objections have we had to this? maybe 40 of them. i think that is an inflation of this political instrument. what concerns me is that the conclusions of the efsa are constantly called into question. and why do i care about that? because i think it's very important that we have an objective referee who's going to look scientifically at whether something is dangerous or not. we as politicians have decided to do so precisely to avoid having a political game of welfare and disadvantage here in this parliament about, for example, chemical pesticides and gmos. i would therefore like to call on you, colleagues, to make the negative assessment of a referee on a football pitch, but to really make sure that we have a very reliable european food and consumer product safety authority because otherwise we simply cannot make any progress at all.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his speech. we have heard these points many times, but the fact is that these crops are not safe. the three gmo crops we are objecting to have been modified to be tolerant to several herbicides, one of which is toxic for reproduction and no longer authorised in the european union. this means ever increasing quantities of herbicide during cultivation, and a higher level of residues on the imported crops. this is dangerous and a vicious circle that is simply ignored by the european food safety association (efsa) and the commission. the same goes for the devastating impact on health and biodiversity in the countries of cultivation. we finally need to stop this insanity, not support it through new authorisation. the last parliament said ‘no’ to gmos 36 times; tomorrow this new parliament will hopefully adopt a strong ‘no’. the crucial question is this: will the commissioner hear us for his decision?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, greta thunberg’s message on climate change is ‘i don’t want you to listen to me. i want you to listen to the scientists’. and everyone agrees: listen to the science. when we see a falling—off in the number of parents having their children vaccinated, we say ‘protect your children; listen to the science’. but when it comes to gm maize or gm soya bean, the objectors are saying ‘ignore the science’. these three objections call for us to ignore science. they make spurious assertions about the excessive use of glyphosate, but efsa’s gmo panel in all three cases found no safety concerns for human consumption. in line with scientific evidence, both efsa and echa produced favourable opinions. the draft measures are in accordance with the legal processes specified in regulation no 1829/2003. these processes ensure that approved gm products are as safe as their conventional counterparts. we are in danger of undermining the legitimacy of the entire eu regulatory system by continually questioning the objectivity and authority of scientific evidence; by continually rubbishing the science. gm for food use is limited, but there is eu—wide dependency on gm for protein crops for use in animal feeds. we need to get this done. the eu has to decide whether we accept science or not. (applause in some quarters)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of genetically modified maize and soybeans. ironically, because the rainforest is being cleared to make way for precisely this genetically engineered corn and soy. only to satisfy europe's hunger for animal feed. these maize and soybean varieties are resistant to the agricultural poisons glyphosate and glufosinate. glyphosate is a probable carcinogen, according to science. glufosinate is banned in europe because it is harmful to reproduction. both are downright disastrous for biodiversity. by importing these maize and soya, the commission is endangering the health of people and ecosystems in the exporting countries. stop these admissions! you no longer have to give the multinationals their way. your responsibility is not to bayer, syngenta and dow chemicals, but to the citizens and the future of the planet. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no democracy in europe on the subject of gmos, and this parliament has denounced this on several occasions in its 36 resolutions, which were adopted by a very large majority in the last parliament. this was also said by president juncker, who five years ago promised to review the decisionmaking process. a broken promise, since nothing has changed. the states do not agree, they do not decide either yes or no. those in favour of the proposal raise legitimate doubts about the safety of gmos for human health and the environment. the ball is now in the commission's court, which, under the current rules, is still authorising new gmos, but in fact it is trampling on the will of this parliament and of millions of citizens who are against gmos and trampling on the precautionary principle for the umpteenth time. in doing so, commissioner, we are putting the european institutions and the citizens' confidence to the test. she said so herself. but it is the task of the european commission, which has the legislative initiative, to finally make this process transparent and democratic.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, colleagues, i am very happy to listen to you, and especially let me react to the last speech by madame evi. as you know, jean—claude juncker’s promise was realised. the commission proposed changes in gmo law to the european parliament twice, and parliament decided to reject it – not showing a willingness to cooperate and see which amendments would be better. now you are once again repeating the situation on what was delivered by the commission. the proposals offer the possibility to change the rules on standing committees – speaking about transparency and democracy and, of course, the rule of law. we are all obliged under the rule of law. now, i’m listening to amazon issues, to different views. ok. but these are not about the substance and, concretely speaking, about the authorisation of cases which are under strict rule of law conditions. the commission has no chance to deviate from the rule of law. thank you once again. i only want to reiterate a few important points of principle. eu institutions should look for common approaches and solutions, not fight each other. this will only help to fuel – as i mentioned before – conflicts in society, and euroscepticism. gmos are a most difficult and very decisive topic, but the commission today has no choice but to implement existing european union legislation. the commission proposed to modify this legislation. i fully regret the situation now, but this is parliament’s responsibility, because parliament decided to reject our proposal. you cannot fully ignore science in our decisions on human health, environmental protection and food safety. we should base our decisions on science, not only on public opinion. i know – speaking about legitimate concerns – that it’s very important to discuss these issues, but we need to know what ‘legitimate concerns’ mean, and not only to put the blame on the commission. i invite you all to reflect about a sustainable future for european union agriculture in the light of concerns for the environment, but also on the importance of having fresh, nutritious and healthy food produced in europe at affordable prices. european union food should not be reserved only for its wealthiest citizens. we need to understand, social, economic, and other consequences. we need to be very careful. i once again see only one way: to follow the law, to follow science and to really create a good environment in our debates about legitimate concerns, describing what legitimate concerns mean. then maybe we will see how we can continue in changing our laws, and so on. the law is the law and the commission will follow the law as it is.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members. it has been 22 days since i last addressed the plenary about cancer. in that time, many people’s lives have been turned upside down by a cancer diagnosis. hundreds have had cancer treatment, and many patients have walked out of hospital and returned to their daily lives with cancer in remission. some have also sadly died. my point is that cancer affects nearly all of our lives. i know very well the physical and emotional consequences of this disease, not only as a medical doctor, but also as someone who lost three brothers to this disease. so i’m happy to stand before you again to reiterate the importance of europe coming together to beat cancer. we already know that 40% of cancer cases could be prevented by avoiding key risk factors like smoking, alcohol, physical inactivity and excess body weight. i would like to highlight once again how important it is to grasp this fact and turn it into action. however, this is difficult to achieve when we are only spending three percent of health system resources on prevention. this is simply not enough; this is a drop in the ocean. if we want to succeed, we need to increase this amount and make sure that what we do spend is spent effectively. i will not go again through all that the eu has so far achieved on cancer, but i would like to proudly recall: eu legislation that has been upgraded on chemicals, pesticides and exposure to carcinogens, including at work. tobacco consumption fell through legislation and anti-smoking campaigns. the european code against cancer, which is spreading the word on prevention. the continuous improvement in coverage and quality of national screening programmes for breast, cervical and colorectal cancer. twenty—four european union reference networks, of which four are dealing specifically with rare and complex cancers, especially in children. this list is not finished; they have more to do. dear members, we all agree that we should grasp technological and scientific developments when it comes to cancer prevention, treatment and care. it is essential that this innovation and these developments reach the patients who need them. as you know, investment in research and innovation has been a long-standing priority of the commission, and this will continue. with its proposal for horizon europe, the commission has introduced a mission approach, which would help to build a coalition to address the most pressing global and european challenges. one of the first mission areas identified for horizon europe is action on cancer to mobilise a broad spectrum of actors, including citizens, patients and all those who care for them. it is a relentless disease, but science is also a relentless, and so is our collective determination to fight this disease. thank you for your insistence, determination and commitment to put cancer on the eu agenda. i am pleased to see that my successor has been given the privilege to present a european plan against cancer with a holistic approach. this means it will look at prevention, diagnosis, treatment, palliative care and survivorship. i’m sure that, together with you and the member states, the next commission will be able to forge a strong alliance to prevent cancer, promote innovation and improve treatment and care in the interests of all.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. why are we discussing cancer for the second time in three weeks? because it is important, but also because we, as the epp, want to put forward a very concrete proposal to set up a special committee on cancer in the european parliament. i think there is a consensus on the goal of fighting cancer, thank god. there are two aspects to subsidiarity: subsidiarity means that the lower level must do what can be done better there. there are some things we cannot control from europe. subsidiarity also means that where member states cannot act successfully on their own, europe must do more, and this is certainly the case with cancer. let me just give you an example of personalized medicine. we have smaller and smaller subgroups of patients, of diseases, and only if we work together in europe can we make good research and good medicine. but why now? the proposal was put forward by mrs kopacz, the former prime minister of poland, within the epp. i thought, isn't this something that the envi committee has to do? i let myself be convinced. firstly, the envi committee has a lot to do with the green deal, and we should not be dealing with this cancer issue in a committee on the side, but it must be a priority with a committee of its own. we need cooperation. we need the expertise of the itre committee on research, on protection at work, on social rights, including for cancer patients. all of these things have to come together so that we can be successful together for the patients. i therefore ask the other groups - when we take the concrete decision, hopefully in strasbourg at the next plenary session - to support this comprehensive approach to the fight against cancer. i thank you in advance for this and thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr liese, we agree to discuss cancer, but i believe that this parliament has enough tools today, such as the envi committee, where all the groups are represented and where health issues are discussed. i am all for holistic approaches and for discussing cancer, but i think we have enough tools to work on it. we must discuss cancer, we must discuss the second leading cause of death in europe, we must discuss a disease which causes 3.7 million new cases a year. of course, we must discuss this, but above all we must fight cancer every day, with policies that show that we have a strong will. we have research programmes like horizon europe - the follow-up to horizon 2020 in the coming years - which must be at the forefront of the fight against cancer here in the european union. but let us not forget, from the european people's party, that sometimes there is a certain bad conscience. the commissioner has said it: public spending on public health, on public health, is important. the cuts in public spending and public health lead to deaths or, in any case, also slow down the reduction in mortality. so it is all right to debate it, but let us debate it from a holistic point of view. that cancer research, that advances in prevention, reach all citizens of the european union, no matter where they live.
mr president, why is it so vital to create a special committee on the fight against cancer in this parliament? because cancer is on its way to becoming the number one cause of death in europe. this year, 2019, 1.4 million europeans will die from cancer. this leads us to react, to act and to make it one of our highest priorities. the european plan to fight cancer and this commission will help us to join forces, to improve partnerships, to improve solutions, to have a comprehensive approach to improve prevention, early detection, to increase investment in research. we also need a concerted plan of support not only for cancer sufferers but also for their families; social policies and social support for their families. we are therefore in the lead in the people's party and are determined to set up this committee and to put this european plan to fight cancer into effect. the europeans are asking us to.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, eurostat data for 2017 indicate that the union lost 200 000 inhabitants because of the difference between births and deaths. the media and economic and social pressure groups, serving their own economic interests, are frightening the population with apocalyptic images about the end of the world climate, while endorsing and financing migration processes  sometimes even illegal  to europe with the population excuse. in europe in general, and in my country in particular - spain - there is a real social emergency in the area of births, but it seems that the big globalist corporations are only interested in the fact that we europeans continue to consume, spend and pay taxes. without birth rates, without strong families, if the european nations do not initiate birth planning processes with economic aid, tax breaks, tax incentives; if we do not take the decision to stop emptying the pockets of european families so that they can make them bigger, all the social and economic progress that is being worked on in this parliament is going to turn into a vile hoax.
mr president, in recent weeks there have been incidents which seriously infringe the linguistic rights of citizens of the spanish state. last week in navarre, two high court judgments dismissed the lack of knowledge of the basque language as a merit not as a requirement, as a merit, while considering that languages such as english or german should be valued. also, ten days ago, the minister of culture of the government of the principality of asturias was prevented from speaking in the asturian language at the general assembly of the principality of asturias itself, an unusual occurrence where there are any. these actions are not in accordance with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which, in article 21, states that all discrimination on grounds of language is prohibited, and therefore, as the committee of ministers of the council of europe has already done, it is necessary to continue urging the spanish state to implement the european charter for minority languages and the resolution of this parliament on linguistic diversity. the plurality of europe is defended by the identity and language of each european; and we are talking about rights, not about choosing the most powerful language, because then we would only have one, namely the one that leaves the union on the 31st.
mr president, the bankruptcy of thomas cook has had serious consequences for the tourism sector in europe and, in particular, for the islands of spain - the balearic and canary islands - and has affected thousands of workers, tourists and businessmen. the most immediate consequences have been an early end to the season in many hotels, which has caused seasonal workers to have their salary forecasts cut by one to three months, a situation which directly and negatively affects many families. that said, i think we should appreciate the rapid action taken by the spanish government and in particular by the government of my region, the balearic islands, which, after the canary islands, has been the second most affected region by the bankruptcy. real, direct solutions to problems of great magnitude are the kind of help that citizens expect from institutions. the european institutions must do their utmost to achieve this. unfortunately, the bankruptcy of thomas cook does not affect only spain, and not all countries have the same capacity, especially economically, to deal with such situations. we need common solutions to common problems and thus demonstrate the added value of the european project.
it is very important, mr president, to honour the commitment and to develop the international convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and to ensure that all member states, but also regional governments, fulfil their obligation as responsible persons to guarantee these rights to all persons on an equal basis. in the community of madrid, one of the richest and most competitive communities in europe, but also one of the most unequal, hundreds of deaf pupils have started the course without a sign language interpreter, which is essential to ensure equal access to schooling. it's a clear lack of inclusion in the education system. but many deaf people cannot access health care, nor can they go to administrative procedures because this interpreting service is not guaranteed, and this is due to the precariousness of the service's work and the defaults of the government of the popular party of the community of madrid. the inclusion of people with disabilities must be guaranteed in every corner of europe. let's work for it.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear rapporteur, dear shadow rapporteurs, members of parliament, colleagues, and if i may say, dear friends, i would like to thank you for this constructive and rich debate. i’ve taken good note of your positions, your concerns, your comments, and i will make sure to pass them on also to my successors. this debate reaffirmed our shared commitment to social europe and to what is the guiding principle of the social market economy: that economic growth and social progress are two sides of the same coin and that they are reinforcing each other. this principle must steer all our work going forward. dear members of parliament, this debate is special for me for one more reason: as you know, it is also my last debate here as a commissioner. this gives me the opportunity to thank you: to thank you for the good cooperation. of course i expected nothing less, having myself served as a member of the european parliament for more than 20 years. over the past five years we worked together constructively in a friendly way, putting all this – the interests of europe’s people – first. over the last weeks and months, i have been receiving many compliments that the eu has become more social- and people-oriented. i always reply that these compliments should be extended beyond me, and i share these complements with you, because good results are the fruit of honest and good interinstitutional dialogue and shared commitments. results are ultimately why we got involved in public life: to deliver what counts for people and to do our part for a dynamic, inclusive and fair society and economy. and following almost 30 years in public life, i can say that i am proud of what we have achieved and very hopeful of what comes next. but don’t get me wrong. important challenges lie ahead; we were just discussing them. and just transitions don’t happen automatically. but the guidelines of the new president-elect of the new european commission, ms von der leyen, show that our successors will build further on what has been achieved on the basis of our shared values. so i wish you very constructive years, and be sure that you can always count on me as a close ally on your work for a social europe. (applause)
rapporteur. – madam president, i think that we are on the same item. i would like to thank everybody for this very fruitful debate. it was a very warm feeling to hear shadow rapporteurs thanking me for an excellent job. i have to do the same and thank shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation. i agree with ms thyssen that it is a remarkable social shift, even in this house, and it’s really good to know. i also want to say to those who are not going to support the report, claiming that it is too ambitious or not ambitious enough: just keep in mind – and maybe reconsider your decision – that, whatever we do in this house, it is always a compromise and there is no possibility to have a compromise which makes all of us one hundred percent happy. when i was working on the report, like, i believe, every member of parliament we have kind of key words. my key words were: labour market, unemployment, women in the labour market, children, fight ageism in the labour market, ethnic groups, disabilities, digitalisation and automation, online platform, workers’ rights, climate change and transition to the green economy, reduction of poverty, health care system, mental health. yesterday somebody told me that my report is like a christmas tree. for everything good against everything bad, this is not serious and this is not doable. i have to agree that this is a christmas tree, but this is a christmas tree of problems we are facing. so please make an effort and solve them.
the social and employment policies that have been implemented in the euro area countries are largely determined by the neoliberal armor of the single currency, i.e. they are in fact anti-social policies and promote unemployment, underemployment and precarious work. these realities have grown significantly with the monetary integration of the euro. these two decades have been characterized by marked social regression, the degradation of labour incomes (and the concomitant growth of capital profits), the attack on the rights of the working class, mass emigration, charity and welfare. the single currency has been built up - the budgetary treaty, economic governance, the european semester - and today it is a major constraint on the pursuit of left-wing policies, or even democratic policies, with a progressive character. any socializing views of the european semester or of economic governance, of the anti-social wall of the euro, such as those which have been striving to spread social democracy, are nothing less than a hoax. you can't serve two masters. we cannot want to end poverty and social exclusion, promote a general increase in wages, end the scourge of youth and longterm unemployment, guarantee a decent life for pensioners and pensioners and at the same time defend the draconian rules of the euro.
in writing. the 2008 financial crisis in hungary was deeper than in most european countries, and this was largely caused by spending based on the irresponsible promises of the left-wing government of that time. today, a decade later, thanks to the hard work of the fidesz government, the hungarian economy is much more resilient, less fragile than it was before the previous global economic downturns, crises. now that the country is on a growth path, we have to be very careful about what we achieve. we must prevent the left from again misleading the electorate with irresponsible and unfounded promises. the left is coming up with fantasies like the european minimum wage or the european unemployment insurance. it does so at a time when the eu budget is facing a brexit-related shortage. as a responsible politician, i cannot support ideas that seek to introduce a new financial instrument (i.e. new spending) and limit the ability of member states to respond quickly to social policy challenges. i am glad that the luxembourg candidate, nicolas schmit, who is a socialist, clearly shares this view. less money can't buy more, as every housewife knows.
in writing. unemployment reinsurance as a new financing instrument would be another financial compensation measure through the back door. solidarity between economically stronger and less stronger member states is crucial for the future of europe and for the prospects of prosperity for all its citizens. in the interests of transparency of financial flows, financial compensation measures should be mentioned by name and considered as a whole. to emphasize this, i voted against paragraphs 1 to 3. nevertheless, the overall report contains many useful ideas, such as measures to combat youth unemployment and age discrimination in the labour market. i am also a strong advocate for reducing the gender pay gap and helping people to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by digitalisation. extensive training is therefore essential. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the overall report.
this report is important for the eu labour market. social employment strategies require constant change and adaptation to changing economic conditions. the report highlights the main problems that require action by the european institutions. the fact that employment rates vary widely across member states, regions and social groups is still a cause for concern. long-term challenges such as ageing populations, digitalisation and its impact on work still require urgent solutions. this requires an effective policy that covers the different forms of employment and adequately protects workers from abuse, discrimination and continued poverty. keep in mind that long-term unemployment particularly affects young people, single parents, people with long-term illnesses, people with disabilities or health problems, who still face specific barriers and discrimination in their efforts to find work at all stages of employment. moreover, the increased number of temporary or precarious forms of employment may have dangerous consequences for the adequacy of pension benefits, especially for younger generations, whose careers often have gaps that can lead to interruptions in contributions, also taking into account the stability of social protection systems. this requires rapid legislative changes. our priority must be to ensure decent jobs, access to adequate social protection, regardless of employment relationship or type of contract, wage increases and high quality public services.
ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. good morning to you all. i would remind you that today is the european and world day against the death penalty. in a world where human values and rights tend to become relative, the death penalty is an affront to human dignity that cannot be tolerated under any circumstances. this year we pay special tribute to children whose parents have been sentenced to death. i remain convinced that death inflicted by the state can never constitute true justice. it is equally important to consider the trauma these children suffer. that is why our parliament is more determined than ever to defend human dignity as enshrined in our treaties. we will do everything possible to bring us closer to the day when all countries abolish the death penalty. we owe it to future generations, we owe it to ourselves. i am sure that is the feeling of the whole house. thank you, sir.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has just adopted amendments to the council’s position on draft amending budget no 4 to the general budget for 2019. i take note of the differences in the positions of our two institutions concerning this draft amending budget no 4 of 2019 presented by the commission. consequently, in my capacity as president of the council, i agree that the president of the european parliament convenes the conciliation committee, as required in point c of article 314, paragraph 4, of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
madam president, i was a little hesitant about this objection. i'd like to explain my vote. i voted against that objection in the end. i'm not personally against the use of genetically modified foods, of course, including corn, as long as strict criteria are met. in the eu, we have fairly strict limits on food safety, of course, on health, and these limits are absolutely required for everyone to comply with. of course, if maize and its producers from other, third countries are allowed access to the market, then these foods must also be safe. for this reason, i believe that our european rules are valid and that the policy we have pursued so far is the right one. what i do not think is quite right, however, is that this maize is imported from, for example, forested and deforested areas in south america and is causing very significant problems in agriculture there, and i shall come to that in the case of soya.
madam president, i have to ask you. i am voting against today's three objections to the authorization of genetically modified organisms for a number of reasons. the systematic objections raised to date are not based on technical issues but on prejudice or emotional aspects, which omit the requirements laid down in the rules of procedure for their submission. the efsa risk assessment concluded in the analysis of those products that they are as safe as conventional products. there is a scientific consensus on that. the commission has an obligation to implement existing legislation, and this parliament cannot support objections without a scientific basis.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report is quite balanced. its main focus is to stimulate member states to achieve a better balance between the economic and social dimensions. part of the priorities in the text that i can support is the promotion of digital skills and entrepreneurship, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises. however, the same document again calls for greater pressure on member states and policies on migrants. again, as in the two reports i have discussed, meaningful texts are inserted into policies related to illegal immigration, its promotion and in general these activities of ngos, which i neither support nor reject. i can't support that kind of writing. i also believe that the document does not take sufficient account of the principle of subsidiarity, i.e. the right of member states to decide their internal affairs by means of national legislation. therefore, in view of the positive aspects of the report, i voted with an abstention.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 10 october 2019.
the final draft agenda, as adopted by the conference of presidents, pursuant to rule 157 of the rules of procedure, at its meeting on wednesday 16 october 2019, was distributed. the following amendments were tabled. on monday, i received a request from the s&d group to insert a commission statement on the criminalisation of sex education in poland as the last item on the afternoon's agenda before the one-minute speeches. the debate should end with a resolution to be voted on at the november partsession.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i rise to support the proposal of my group. we think it is important that this house is able to debate the need to ensure fundamental issues and everything that has to do with respect for education - and in this case sex education - and therefore we think it is important that we can have a debate on this issue in the house.
yes, mr. president, i have been. i'd like to object. there is no representative of biedronia in this room. well, he's not, because he's ashamed of it! ladies and gentlemen, in poland, there is no document prohibiting or penalizing sex education. yes, in poland, a social project "stop pedophilia" is now being carried out... (the speaker interrupts) ... because it is pointless.
i have received a request from the ppe group to put a commission statement on storms in europe, in particular the torrential rains in spain and the hurricane in the azores, on the agenda.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, on behalf of my group we wanted today, taking into account that there is a new threat of dana in spain in the coming hours in catalonia, in the balearic islands and in valencia , to focus on the events of 12 and 15 september 2019 in spain in murcia, in almeria and in alicante , and what happened in the azores in portugal as a result of hurricane lorenzo. we would like to see a debate on the damage caused by the storms and hurricane and the launching of the solidarity fund to respond to the damage suffered by both portugal and spain, with particular reference to the six deaths in spain in murcia as a result of the storms.
the sitting is adjourned until 11 p.m. today. tuesdayi received a request from the greens/efa group to include, as the fourth item on the agenda for this afternoon, the statements by the council and the commission on the situation in catalonia following the conviction of the catalan political leaders and civil society.
for the greens/efa group mr president, since the blockade of the reform of the status of catalonia, we have been faced with a political problem between catalonia and the spanish authorities. is a political problem solved through the courts? we don't think he did. we fully respect the decisions of the spanish courts, but they do not provide a political solution to the problem. is violence the way to solve a political problem? certainly not, and we reject all forms of violence, whether it comes from protesters or is the result of a completely disproportionate crackdown. it is precisely because we believe that political problems necessarily require political solutions that we believe that our parliament should set an example and calmly debate the situation in a major member state in a reasoned manner. you will tell me that the 28 member states are important, and i will of course agree with that; i am sorry, it is true that i myself come from a small member state. what we are proposing is a calm debate, the aim of which is to be able to contribute to a political solution which, inevitably, at some point, will have to happen.
mr. president, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. we oppose this debate because it makes no sense to bring to this house an internal matter of a member state in which democracy is perfectly functioning. spain is a modern, open, consolidated and transparent democracy. spain is a social state governed by the rule of law, with a strict separation of powers, in which no one - and i say no one - is above the law. all spaniards know that breaking the law has consequences. all citizens - and especially politicians - must abide by, respect and enforce judicial decisions. this cannot be discussed in this house or in any democratic country in the world. it is now time to reduce the tension in catalonia and not to stoke it with a sterile debate harmful to coexistence in catalonia.
i would like to ask for the floor, also for the ppe. but we are the majority group in the chamber, the people's party. (the president withdrew the floor to the speaker)
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, i would like to begin by pointing out to the commission that the debate today is not about the bankruptcy of thomas cook, but precisely about how the bankruptcy of thomas cook has affected thousands of people and certain regions that have names and surnames - in the case of spain, the balearic islands, the canary islands - as a result of a negligent decision by a company that knew perfectly well, hours before its closure, that it was going bankrupt. today i want to be the voice of all those thousands of tourists who have put the best of their year's expectations into going on holiday to stay on land or not get home. i want to be the voice of all those consumers who today still don't know if they're going to get their money back. i want to be the voice of all those employees who, at night, at night hours - at two in the morning - watched their jobs go. and since i know many of them, who are excellent professionals, i know that today many of them are still working despite not receiving their paychecks, simply because they do not know what will happen to them in terms of labour legislation and how justice will ultimately determine their future. and i also want to be the voice of all those drivers and those tour guides who don't know what's going to happen next year with their season. in short, the commission is more important than ever today and it is not the time for words but for deeds. in this sense, on behalf of citizens and renew europe, the liberal group to which i belong, i want to say to all of them that we are not going to leave them alone and that we are going to go all the way, because precisely these situations cannot happen and concrete measures have to be taken. as a citizen of the balearic islands, a community of which i have had the privilege and honour and the pride of being president, i say that i know perfectly well and firsthand how to approach precisely the development of active public policies to promote tourism. members of the commission, today is the time. we cannot let time pass and the future depends exclusively on us.
madam president, as we have been saying in this debate, on 23 september we heard the news of the bankruptcy of thomas cook, a british tour operator essential to the tourism sector, a sector which is fundamental to a country like spain, my country. it is true that many tourists and many hoteliers have been affected, but i want to focus on consumers. the european union must ensure that citizens have the right to be backed by guarantees when they buy travel from tour operators. the european commission must therefore be aware - and the council must be aware - that we have to learn from this failure; we have to learn so that it does not happen again in the future. and, furthermore, we also have to ensure - and the european commission has to do this - that all possible tools are made available to provide solutions to the consumers who are affected, through directive (eu) 2015/2302, which is already operational. it is important that we do this work so that we see that consumers are a fundamental driver for the european union and for the next european commission.
madam president, the bankruptcy of thomas cook has had very severe consequences for the tourism sector throughout europe. for this reason, i welcome the fact that parliament is debating a motion for a resolution which not only reflects the concern of the many affected by the collapse of thomas cook, but which also calls on the commission to act consistently and swiftly in future similar situations, as the government of my region, the balearic islands, has done, in a coordinated way - not as mrs estaràs has said - with the spanish government. however, we must also focus on those who have been most affected: the workers in the sector. and it's that in a bankruptcy like thomas cook, the workers are often the most vulnerable, because they're the ones affected with the least ability to maneuver. a worker depends entirely on his salary and if he is fired because of the bankruptcy of his company or his contract this year is shortened because of the advance of the end of the season, the consequence can be dramatic, such as not being able to make it to the end of the month. the text of the resolution must take into account the vulnerability of workers with the aim of strengthening the mechanisms for their participation in the management of processes such as bankruptcy. only with greater bargaining power will we achieve fairer conditions for workers and greater financial security.
madam president, tourism is one of the largest sectors of the european economy and is a key sector in world tourist powers such as spain. the bankruptcy of thomas cook has caused a crisis that has affected many sectors, services and professions, especially in island regions where accessibility and connectivity are crucial. the impact at european level has been enormous. the loss of connectivity and of multiple jobs reaffirms that member states face common challenges, also in tourism, and highlights the need to develop a common european strategy for tourism and to establish prevention and management mechanisms to protect workers, boost our businesses and ensure the safety of passengers. we therefore ask the commission to take into account parliament's proposal to establish a single budget line for sustainable tourism, to review the legislation to define the rights of workers in the event of the company's insolvency. and we look forward to the announced social package from the aviation sector. only then can we take the first steps towards a common european strategy for tourism.
in writing. in recent weeks, we have seen the fallout from the collapse of the oldest and one of the largest travel agencies in the world. this is just the beginning of the dire consequences that some 600,000 tourists had to face in the first place. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted through state resources and does not adversely affect trading conditions to an extent contrary to the common interest. we are not just talking about the thousands of workers who lost their jobs and livelihoods overnight, but also about the suppliers at risk, the connected hotels, the travel agencies and finally the small family business that served tourists travelling with thomas cook offices in europe and beyond. all these entities will have to face a difficult situation in the coming months. let us also remember that travelers are the first victims of the failure and ultimate bankruptcy of travel agencies. it is good that in the case of such a spectacular bankruptcy, it has been possible to ensure the safe return of tourists. it was not without significance that legislation at european level was put in place to protect consumers in such situations. i assure you of my support for legislation protecting tourists, who are often vulnerable to the complex procedures of obtaining compensation. the protection of these rights is a particularly important task for us today, given the incompetence of some travel agencies' management.
in writing. the tour operator thomas cook and the austrian company neckermann-reisen have been insolvent for almost a month. instead of the relaxation hoped for, the 600,000 affected package travelers needed strong nerves. i wouldn't wish that on anyone. the eu's package travel directive has at least helped to avert the greatest harm to consumers. but we must not forget the workers. in the case of bankruptcies of pan-european companies, we need a high level of protection for workers throughout europe. the workers' rights must be fully guaranteed. in addition, the staff must be informed in good time. in the event of such a large bankruptcy, we must not leave travellers or workers standing in the rain.
in writing. the impact of thomas cook's bankruptcy will be felt by the economy, the internal market and employment throughout the european union. i am deeply concerned about the 600,000 people who have been displaced from their homes and the thousands of local suppliers and subsidiaries that are in serious trouble as a result of the company's closure. the resolution calls on the authorities to analyse the reasons for thomas cook's bankruptcy. we ask the european commission to provide access to eu financial instruments that could compensate for the damage caused to the sector. i also invite the commission to assess the feasibility of specific measures to prevent such situations and to strengthen consumer protection and rights.
member of the commission. – madam president, this is an important, as well as timely, debate that we’re going to have this evening. the recent tragic events in halle, germany, have further underlined the very real and growing threat posed by right—wing violent extremism and, in this particular case, anti-semitism, a threat already highlighted by the horrible slaughter of innocent people earlier this year in christchurch. after both those events, i know that all our thoughts were with the families and friends of those involved. it’s vital that we fully recognise this threat and work together at eu level, as well as in each of our member states, stepping up our efforts urgently to address this particular challenge. let’s be clear: violent extremism is violent extremism, whatever hate—filled ideology fuels it. it has no place in our societies: not jihadism, nor far—right nor far—left violent extremism. racism, anti-semitism, xenophobia and extreme nationalism are fundamentally anti-democratic and un-european. jo cox, a member of parliament in the united kingdom, was not murdered by a british patriot. her life was taken by a far—right violent extremist thug. our european countries belong to all of us, not to those who would use their supposed patriotism as an excuse for committing cold—blooded murder. the commission welcomes the initiative that the presidency has taken to focus on this area, and indeed this was reflected in a discussion in the justice and home affairs council on 8 october, which endorsed a set of suggestions from the presidency. the commission stands ready to support all the member states and the presidency and, obviously, to work with this house in any way possible. while our work on countering violent extremism and terrorism at eu level covers all forms of extremism, it’s fair to say that the primary focus in recent years has been on jihadi terrorism. this needs to remain a priority, given the nature of the threat, but the commission is also increasingly focusing on, and working to tackle, violent right-wing extremism, especially through the radicalisation awareness network (ran) that is working with police officers, prison and probation staff, local government officials, teachers and others on the front line of tackling this particular challenge. and building on this work, we think there are a number of areas where we can go further – where we need to go further. first, we agree with all those who argue that we need to do more to counter violent, right—wing extremist content online. three years ago, we signed with the platforms an eu code of conduct on countering illegal hate speech online. when the code was signed in 2016, 28% of such content was being removed. i’m glad to say we’re now at 72% of content. but, while the code of conduct has proved a very useful tool, the fight against illegal hate speech online is far from over. unfortunately, there are no signs that the generation and circulation of such content has decreased. the commission and the social media platforms will continue to build our cooperation within the eu internet forum. indeed, a couple of weeks ago, the internet forum met, and this item – countering violent right—wing extremism –was at the top of the agenda. this cooperation in the internet forum has produced some concrete results, something that was highlighted by the companies’ rapid response to the halle attack. the platforms were able to remove virtually all of the 200 different variants of the video and the extremist so—called manifesto – including the soundtrack used to glorify the attack – within a couple of hours. so i very much welcome the good cooperation with the companies involved in the internet forum. in addition, it’s important to ensure that europol’s internet referral unit has sufficient resources and capacity to monitor and refer right—wing violent extremist content, and i know that this house will support that. europol, in fact, is now working with more than 350 different social media platforms, but there are still platforms today which refuse to cooperate in our efforts to take down illegal terrorist content online, including violent right—wing extremist content. for me, that’s one of the reasons why it’s crucial that together, as co-legislators, we advance swiftly in the negotiations on the proposal for a regulation countering terrorist content online. we need to get this done. we need to crack down on this poison and help save some lives. let’s put in place clear and effective measures to prevent the dissemination of illegal terrorist content, including live streaming directly linked to attacks, while at the same time ensuring that we retain full respect for fundamental rights and freedom of speech. second, the commission stands ready to provide further support to member states in their efforts to tackle this particular challenge. the threat posed by violent right—wing extremism has featured prominently in the discussions on the 2020 strategic orientations for a coordinated eu approach to the prevention of radicalisation. among other things, this includes helping local and national governments to develop their action plans to prevent right—wing violent extremism, including through exit and de-radicalisation programmes. the commission will also continue to support local authorities and cities in their efforts to tackle radicalisation. as a follow-up to the cities against radicalisation conference, which we organised together with the european committee of the regions earlier this year, the commission is supporting a pilot group of interested cities in building a network focused on countering radicalisation in our communities. third – and this has also been stressed by member states in the council – it’s important to support our neighbours in their efforts to tackle violent extremism, particularly our partners in the western balkans. the joint action plan on counter-terrorism for the western balkans, signed a year ago, covers counter—terrorism policy as well as prevention of all forms of radicalisation and violent extremism. to implement the joint action plan, the commission is putting in place a set of tailor—made arrangements with each of the western balkan partner countries, including actions for effective prevention and countering of all forms of violent extremism. we will continue to push forward our work in all of these areas, in close cooperation with our partners, including, of course, our partners here in this house.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. a nazi terrorist has attacked a synagogue in halle, killing two people who happened to be nearby. jews are living in increasing insecurity. in my region of dortmund, people of the jewish faith still face anti-semitic stereotypes. the local newspaper reported on the jewish student dennis khavkin. for example, a member of the community was attacked last year in dortmund, germany, simply because he wore the kippa. the student also avoids certain neighborhoods. he learned about everyday anti-semitism at his university, for example. he was writing an accounting paper, and one student said to him, "you'll do it, you're a jew". journalist hazel rosenstrauch wrote in the friday newspaper of the weekend that she was considering whether it would be advisable to publish an article under her name that deals with the question of how many sympathizers the far-right terrorist from halle has within the security forces and the police. the failure of the police in halle to provide protection for the synagogue on yom kippur is a failure that has structural and systemic causes. the terrorist is not a lone perpetrator, and the intellectual arsonists are unfortunately also sitting in parliament, as for example the afd. the terrorist attack also shows that it is not only about jews, but that it can affect us all. attacks on jews are an attack on democracy, which everyone must resolutely oppose now and today.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the halle massacre is the heinous crime of a disgusting psychopath. the loss of two lives is regrettable, and it would have been much more if he had succeeded in storming the synagogue in halle. the perpetrator is a murderer consumed by anti-semitic mania. he stands for the opposite of what we all stand for. it is absolutely indisputable: right-wing extremism is dangerous and must be fought with all the means of the rule of law. anywhere, anytime. but we also say that the state must not tolerate any form of extremism. no right wing, no left wing, no islamist, no extremism at all. but our states are failing here. it's not enough to just lip service and rituals of affect. the german state would have had the damn duty to protect all synagogues on yom kippur day with weapons! the jewish community in halle had asked for it several times. it's not working. this is a fundamental state failure! only a sturdy synagogue door prevented a massacre, as we had to witness in christchurch. no home secretary and no security forces. if those who failed here are the ones to blame my party - as has just happened here again - then the worst thing is to distract from one's own failure, and it is not to be surpassed in wickedness. and one more thing that needs to be said loud and clear: anti-semitism directed against jews and israel today comes overwhelmingly from the left. he's always been part of the left's dna. because it is you - the left and the greens - who are not bothered by germany's anti-israel voting behaviour at the un. it doesn't bother you at all. they're the ones who rejected our motion to ban hezbollah. it is they who are holding up eu payments to the un palestinian relief fund, thus financing hamas, a terrorist organisation. and you tell us something about anti-semitism? let me tell you something, if we rule someday, we will give our fellow jews a systematic protection. protection you did not give them. despite all your lies and distortions, we are friends of israel. we are friends of jewish life. you're getting the point! stop waving that nazi bullshit at us! that's not worthy. this is disgusting. this is disgusting.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the delegation and the group to which i belong have always been the first to condemn anti-semitism. but unlike other groups in this house, we are against any kind of discrimination on grounds of ethnicity, sex or belief, including those which discriminate negatively against the nationals of the european nations themselves. we believe in the dignity of the person and the individual and not in the collective struggles which the parties of their social democratic consensus so happily indulge in. as we feared, the left has once again tried to turn a debate on a tragic event in a synagogue in germany into another of its exercises in singling out dissent. you are using an attack that we all reject and condemn to manipulate public opinion and try to delegitimize political choices that have nothing to do with the facts that are being discussed here today. that is why the title of this debate is 'the danger of far-right violence' and not simply 'the danger of violence'. if you really want to fight violence and extremism, take your leftist moral superiority and go to a no-go zone, where islamic law rules or where women cannot leave their homes in peace. if you want to fight violence and extremism, listen to the german government's anti-semitism commissioner, who in may recommended that jews not wear the kippah on the street. in hungary and poland, there is no need to issue such warnings. if you want to fight violence and extremism, denounce what is happening these very days in the streets of my city, barcelona, which has become a powder keg because of identity separatism.
madam president, thank you for this timely debate which allows us to look not only at the perpetrators of these crimes but also at their victims. and when we look at their victims, we find again the anti-semitism and jewophobia that are at the root of this criminal impulse. the far right, yes. but anti-semitism is rooted in the far left, rooted in jihadism, rooted in islamism. they all make it their common cause and to that are added the defamatory speeches, the socially accepted harassment and, of course, all those who by denying or trivializing the holocaust open the way for greater violence. silence has always been the most effective and perverse ally of anti-semitism. it's the famous "we knew nothing, we heard nothing, we saw nothing". we now know, we now hear and we now see that anti-semitism is on the rise and must be fought, because in europe we know that when anti-semitism spreads widely it heralds tragedy. now in europe there is talk again of a silent exodus of the jews. so let me say, ladies and gentlemen, that in spain, thanks to an initiative by the popular party, over the last four years more than 31 000 sephardic jews, descendants of those who were expelled in 1492, have received spanish nationality in an act of recognition as spaniards and europeans.
madam president, there is certainly a long list of victims: pavlos fyssas - i think mr lagos is well aware of the case - jo cox, carlos palomino, the utoya massacre, constant attacks in the streets - just four days ago, a group of neo-nazis beat a young man in barcelona to death. the violence of the far right is not the result of a one-off exaltation, however much many and many insist on saying it here. it is the product of a chain of responsibility that starts with some of those who sit in the front row, but also with those who agree with them or those who whitewash them to share the chairs. there is a direct link between hate speech that criminalizes migrants, that justifies violence against women, against lgbtq people, and thugs who execute violence in the streets. and the sad thing is that, far from raising a serious question, we see this parliament and the european commission irresponsibly assuming not only the names but also the ideas that the neo-fascists are coining with their exclusionary speeches. this is evidenced by the unfortunate title of the portfolio 'protecting our european way of life'. it's called xenophobia. it would certainly be better for this parliament and for europe if we took note of what an old spanish anti-fascist fighter said: 'fascism is not to be discussed, it is to be fought'. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. mr stedman-bryce, this is not about individual issues, this is about political positions. and what many of these colleagues and many of these groups are proposing has a lot to do with the systematic violation of human rights and the putting in jeopardy of a great many people. so this is not simply a personal matter for him. it is a question of political lines and of concrete ideals that their political organizations espouse, not of each and every one of them individually. i am sure that my personal circumstances would also invite me to take other positions, but here you are defending a political position, and that of your organizations is constantly raising human rights violations and justifying them.
madam president, the violent right-wing extremism, the events of october last in halle, only remind us that it can be the jewish people, it can be the muslim people, it can be the afro people, it can be the lgbtqi groups, it can be the immigrants and perhaps, even more, the refugees, who suffer from hate speech. but it is no use coming to this parliament to make great speeches on european values if then in our regional parliaments, in our member states, we make a deal with those right-wing parties which make hate speech an apology; and in many town halls, in many communities in spain, those who make grand speeches here make a deal, favouring the inclusion of these speeches in their political agenda. i believe that we must build europe by pouring resources into the towns and regions, through the european social fund, through all these cohesion funds, so that they can be used for prevention. without prevention, we will not fight hate speech. we defend europe, we defend coexistence, and then we do not regret not having done our best. we're on time.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr. president, they call this pedophilia and it's not. it is not the end of paedophilia that the polish government is proposing with this bill, but the criminalisation of sex education, education which combats the identification of sexual practices with submission, control and domination. without sex education, gender stereotypes are perpetuated that oppress women, rape children and encourage homophobia and transphobia. with this bill, the ultra-catholic right wants to impose patriarchal sexuality in a country where women have serious difficulties accessing contraceptive methods, assisted reproduction techniques and the free interruption of their pregnancy; where the ecclesiastical authorities have registered hundreds of cases of minors sexually abused and where a very high percentage of young lgbtqi people have suicidal thoughts and suffer from depression. the polish right wants to establish an educational model that restricts the sexual and reproductive rights of children and that violates, in addition, the rights of women and the lgbtqi group.
member of the commission. – mr president, the commission is obviously well aware of the impact of the storms and flooding in several regions in the south-east of spain and of hurricane lorenzo on the azores, and our sympathy goes to all those who were caught up in these violent weather events, who’ve lost their livelihoods and suffered damage. the commission is currently exploring, with the spanish and with the portuguese authorities, the best ways to support the recovery from the damage caused. the eu solidarity fund provides member states and regions affected by serious natural disasters with financial assistance for emergency and recovery operations. the commission services, in fact, have already had meetings with the authorities of the valencia region and with the authorities of the azores to explain the conditions and the procedures that activate the solidarity fund. the spanish government in a recent letter to the commission have announced their intention to apply for solidarity fund assistance once they’ve completed the ongoing damage assessment. if the applications are submitted within the deadline and their assessment by the commission reveals that the conditions for activating the solidarity fund are met then the commission will move rapidly to propose an amount of aid to be approved by this house and by the council. in both cases, these would be categorised as so-called ‘regional disasters’, for which aid can amount to up to 2.5% of the total direct damage. in addition, the european structural and investment funds can intervene to help with certain recovery operations, and again, as some of the damage concerned affects the agricultural sector, the eu rural development policy provides for restoring agricultural production potential damaged by natural disasters and catastrophic events and introduction of appropriate preventive actions, so it too could provide support to help farmers cope with the impact of natural disasters. and to compensate for damage caused to primary producers by heavy rains and floods, member states can, as i’m sure you know, also consider granting state aid. so in these different ways that i have just set out, we stand ready to help those affected by these severe weather events.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i would like to thank the house for approving this morning the inclusion of such an important item on the agenda and for allowing us to have this debate. as the commission representative has said, the spanish government argues that it is still calculating the damage suffered by murcia, valencia and almeria as a result of the so-called 'cold shower' following the torrential rains which fell in spain between 12 and 15 september. the damage has already been calculated, and what i want to denounce before this house is the passivity of the spanish government in office - the government of pedro sánchez - in activating and launching the solidarity fund as quickly as possible; in the case of murcia in particular, this region fulfils all the requirements to be able to benefit from the solidarity fund. we are talking about the fact that unfortunately there have been six fatalities and damages that are already estimated by the regional government of murcia at 560 million euros in this region. in valencia and andalusia, the damage is estimated at eur 190 million. we are talking about damage that has already been accounted for and about citizens who are waiting for europe to react. one of the main european values is solidarity and the european solidarity fund is there to work in cases like these, to react and respond to citizens who are overwhelmed and in often dramatic situations such as those we are living in at the moment. i therefore call on the council and the member states to speed up the implementation of the european solidarity fund as much as possible. i say this in view of the threat of torrential rains that may again affect the balearic islands, valencia or catalonia in the coming days. the european union must react quickly and cannot be an institution that takes weeks and weeks to react to natural disasters such as those we have just suffered in spain or those our neighbours in portugal have suffered in the azores. europe must be able to show solidarity and must be able to react quickly to the needs of its citizens.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, last september, the south-east of spain suffered one of the worst storms in 140 years, with torrential rains reaching 450 litres per square metre. the consequences have been devastating: six dead, more than four thousand evacuated, many people left homeless, roads cut off and infrastructure damaged in more than 25 municipalities. but this area is the backyard of spain, the backyard of europe, and to this must be added the considerable damage to over three thousand hectares of crops and losses of over 500 million in agriculture. i would also like to remind you of the serious impact it has had on the minor sea, a unique ecosystem of great environmental interest, whose preservation was already difficult and which has been made even worse by this flood. so we have important environmental and economic consequences in this area as well. in view of this serious situation, we are asking for the solidarity fund to be set up. we need to address the devastation caused by the cold drop and give hope back to all those families who have lost their homes, to farmers and fishermen, and help them rebuild their lives and their futures. because dana is just one more example of the natural disasters that will affect europe in the coming years as a result of climate change and it highlights the need for all member states to fight climate change together, because just as it has affected spain and portugal it will also affect other european regions. unfortunately, it's not a problem that's going to go away. today in spain, for example, we have been alerted to a new storm coming. there is a need for european mechanisms, such as the european union solidarity fund, to respond to these problems. but we also need to invest in scientific research that helps prevent natural disasters and helps reduce the impact that they have on people's lives, on the economy and on the environment.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, we talked about floods and their consequences. it is cynical to listen to the spanish popular party, whose leader, not long ago, ridiculed our country by ignoring and belittling climate change; a party that has been systematically collaborating in irresponsible constructions, based on ball-striking and corruption, in flood-prone areas, areas that today suffer from floods. in our country, land and housing have been speculative, contributing to the ballgame and putting the economic benefit of a few before the security of the citizen. the absolute opacity of the hydrographic confederations has been maintained. this has to change. directive 2007/60/ec on the assessment and management of flood risks recognises climate change as one of the factors contributing to the increasing frequency of floods. despite this, the european commission is not taking the necessary steps. they need to stop paying the same. that is why, on the one hand, it is important that the european union solidarity fund - which was set up to intervene in the event of serious natural disasters - should provide solidarity to regions in spain such as navarre, the balearic islands or the valencian community, and, on the other hand, we need bold measures and governments now to ensure a just transition, a new model, and to stop speculating and trading in basic resources such as water.
mr president, i would first like to tell the people's party leader that there are things with which one does not play. and it does not play with the damage of the families who have suffered the floods in these months in spain. and it does not play with the damage of the merchants who have been having to clean the mud from their shops and who still can not open them. i am not just talking about the cases of valencia, murcia, the balearic islands, castile and león or castile-la mancha. i am also speaking of a small community like navarre, with only 600 000 inhabitants, but in july we saw how in the streets of its middle area, especially in tafalla and in more than twenty-two localities, there was not only one dead person - that is to say, the life of a person who has been lost - but also many businesses affected, as well as many homes of many families who, today, are still unable to go home. we are therefore talking about a major change that the european union must make. with climate change we have seen that we have been lagging behind in the politics of the new future, and we have to keep one thing in mind: we have to give answers. because of course the spanish government has been there, as have been our councillors, our mayors and all the neighbours of our towns. but the european union must also give answers. and that is why it is very important that the solidarity fund be amended, updated and that new mechanisms be created from within the european union to provide answers and help to all our citizens.
mr president, president mitterrand said that nationalism is war. protectionism is trade war. and we are in those, because since last friday we have tariffs on many products. look, the spanish agri-food sector is very affected. it's the eighth largest in the world, and cheese, oil and table olives, and wine, are going to be affected by these unfair tariffs. i do not think the way forward is more war, and i say to the european commission that tariffs may not be the solution. the solution is dialogue. we must find a negotiated solution so that there is no trade war which, according to the international monetary fund, may affect a whole generation. and in the meantime, you help. i ask the european commission to compensate by aid 'especially to the wine sector, which is one of the most affected' and to set up an additional promotion system for wine, because it will need it. my dear colleagues, trade war is not the answer. the solution is dialogue, compensation and aid.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the future of europe is the great theme of this parliament's term of office. ten years ago the treaty of lisbon came into force, but since then various changes and events have taken place: first of all, of course, the fact of brexit, the crisis of managing migratory flows, the consequences of the economic and financial crisis. all this requires us to update our policies and our institutions. that is why i believe we must begin the debate on the future of europe, which in my view must be that of a political union of a federal nature, that is to say, a political union in which there are no national vetoes or blocking measures in the council, and in which parliament can take part in decisionmaking on an equal footing with the council in all matters, including taxation, own resources and the multiannual budget.
madam president, the world is changing and the budget does not allow us, does not equip us to fight those changes. unfortunately, the council is cutting back on some of the things that are crucial to be able to deal with those changes. at citizens, we believe that those changes come through fighting climate change, equipping our citizens to fight in an increasingly digitized and globalized world and also equipping our businesses in a world where research and development is increasingly important. that is why the budget that this parliament is presenting - and that it is asking the council to consider, and the commission, when we start negotiating - and to reconsider their position - means more investment in erasmus, more investment in horizon 2020 - which is one of the key programmes for research in the european union - much more spending on climate change - 2 billion more. we believe more money is needed for europol, which reflects the priorities of our citizens in justice... in short, we need a budget which explicitly incorporates the demands of the citizens. and that is why we at renew europe will vote in favour of this proposal from parliament.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank in particular mrs tuppurainen of the finnish presidency for her presence in this debate. since 2009, parliament has been unable to give its consent to the budgetary management of the council because of its lack of cooperation in order to enable parliament to carry out its task of monitoring the management of the union's accounts. in the procedure for the closure of accounts for the year 2017 - which is the one we are now dealing with - the council once again did not respond to the questionnaires sent and did not appear at the hearing of the secretaries-general of the institutions organised by the committee on budgetary control. the council's accounts were approved by the parliament on 26 march, giving the council a further opportunity to rectify the situation. unfortunately, the council has not moved a single item so far, and once again, in view of this lack of cooperation, our committee has had to reject the approval of the council's management for 2017. all the political groups voted unanimously in the committee on budgetary control, thus endorsing the position that parliament has been taking over the years, as we believe that our role is to confirm that the budget has been spent in a legal, regular and in accordance with the principle of sound financial management, thus exercising a fundamental competence in the interests of all citizens and taxpayers of the union, by ensuring transparency and democratic accountability of the entire european budget. the report calls on the council to react and to assess the democratic role of parliament in this area. the council should adapt and accept democratic scrutiny of its accounts, as the other institutions and bodies of the union have done, and even if they do not, the council should be the first to set an example of transparency and to undergo the discharge procedure by providing the information required. it is true that over the years there have been several attempts by the two institutions to bring their positions closer together, but unfortunately they have not yet produced any positive results. but i am optimistic and confident that the council will be willing to reach agreement on the way in which we can cooperate as soon as possible. in this respect, i hope that the finnish presidency will play an important role in achieving this. the report also includes a section on the private sponsorships which many member states use when assuming the rotating presidency of the council. we believe that the private financing of the presidency can give an inappropriate image of the union's accounts and therefore poses a major risk not only to the reputation of the council itself but also to the european union as a whole, especially in a context where the institutions need to protect and strengthen the trust that citizens place in them. and finally, it is precisely in the name of that trust and in the interests of the responsible exercise of transparency and democratic control which our citizens deserve, that i again call on the council to join our efforts in order to find a solution to this disagreement as soon as possible. we owe it to the european citizens to ensure that the entire budget of the european union is managed in a transparent, reliable and integrated manner.
the rapporteur. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the members of the committee on budgetary control for their cooperation and their contributions through amendments, and also for the interventions that have taken place in this debate and, above all, for the support for the report. i reiterate the need to find a solution to this disagreement. we are risking the reputation of the european institutions and we owe it to the citizens, who demand transparency and accountability. we do not give weapons to shape speeches like mr. heaver has had. i am glad to hear that the way forward is being examined in order to find a mutually satisfactory solution and i hope that negotiations can begin as soon as possible. i think it is essential for both institutions to reach an agreement and to put an end to this 'representation' which we have been pursuing for years and which is leading nowhere. as for sponsorship, i am simply concerned about the possible damage to reputation and the risk of losing the citizens' trust in the european union, even though it is a matter for the member states.
mr president, this directive - which has been blocked in the council for ten years - has already been openly outlawed in many countries. so today in the european union we are not all equal, not even in the minimal sense of the directive. you can be a first-class citizen or a second-class citizen, depending on the country you live in. in addition, the causes of discrimination are treated in a fragmented way, which is why some people in practice suffer segregation, hate crimes and social exclusion. there's the roma population, for example, the lgbtq community or people with disabilities. the directive is also insufficient. gender identity is not mentioned, so transphobia is ignored. harassment is defined in a limited way. there is no reference to data disaggregation or multiple discrimination. equality is not transversal. and the scope of its application is very narrow. does it really deserve to be called europe if it considers a directive which sets standards of equality that no longer exceed even the minimum standards to be met to be dangerous? if equality is not a european thing, what can we expect from the european union?
in writing. – the ec proposed in 2008 an important new anti-discrimination law, which could ban discrimination on the grounds of religion or belief, disability, age in all areas of social life, including education, housing, and access to goods and services. nevertheless, 11 years on, the draft directive remains stuck at the eu council. this means that in 2019, in many member states, people can still be refused when they ask to open bank accounts because they are considered ‘too old’. we know children that are kept apart from their friends and sent to ‘special schools’ because they have a disability. discrimination must have no place in our union. however, several eu countries have adopted more progressive equality laws and stepped up non-discrimination protection for their citizens on a country-by-country basis. i strongly support both the ec and the member states to come up with a roadmap on how to close the legislative gaps against discrimination on all grounds. we must turn the legislative silence into a clear affirmation of the fact that the provision of these rights must not be politicised and earn the trust of our citizens that the eu can live up to its key values of equality and non-discrimination.
the next item is the debate on the council statement on the state of play of disclosure of income tax information by certain companies and branches public country-specific reporting (2019/2882 ((rsp)). before i open the debate, i would like to inform you that, in order to apply for spontaneous votes under the spontaneous voting procedure and the blue cards, it is possible to apply for both the standard registration and the new system which allows members to register spontaneous votes under the spontaneous voting procedure and the blue cards electronically. i would therefore ask you to bring your voting card with you at all times. if you wish to register a spontaneous speech in the spontaneous speech procedure, you can do so now. you do not have to wait until the end of the debate.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members of parliament, let me first thank you for giving me the opportunity to discuss this topic. this is an important topic indeed, and this proposal, presented by the commission in 2016, is one of the numerous legislative proposals aimed at fighting base erosion and profit-shifting. we have had the opportunity on several occasions to exchange views on the progress the council has made in the area of taxation, and indeed there has been significant progress. as far as this specific legislative proposal is concerned, the council has worked a lot on the text of the proposal. the competent working party has examined the proposal since april 2016 and further meetings are planned under our presidency. i am very much aware of the importance of this file for the european parliament, which adopted its first reading position in march this year. i am also aware that last year in february, mr svoboda and mr gualtieri inquired about the state of play of the council’s deliberations and highlighted the parliament’s willingness to progress swiftly on this file. however, there were – and still are – unsolved political issues which still prevent an agreement in the council. i must emphasise that public disclosure of information does not automatically mean increased tax revenues. solid tax laws and well-equipped tax authorities are key in this respect. therefore, the council continues its work in the area of base erosion and profit-shifting to further complement the toolbox of tax authorities. the toolbox already includes country-by-country reports by the largest multinational corporations, and these reports can be accessed by tax authorities. i would also like to recall the oral question put forward by mr svoboda last year regarding the legal basis of the proposal and council’s answer in this context during an april 2018 plenary. indeed, the question of the legal basis calls into question the very applicability of the ordinary legislative procedure in this file. whereas the parliament is in favour of keeping the legal basis proposed by the commission, our legal service is of the opinion that the legal basis should be article 115 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which is a taxation article and therefore requires unanimity, instead of article 50, paragraph 1, which is a single-market article and requires qualified majority. the finnish presidency is taking over the results of the technical work done so far. work has advanced well under the successive council presidencies that preceded us, and we intend to move forward as much as possible. consultations with delegations are ongoing with a view to achieving further progress on this file, but you will understand that i’m not in a position to make any specific commitments today. on the council side, we will probably still need more time in order to clarify our position. i commit to keeping you informed of any further developments and i hope that we’ll be able to find a way to reach a council position. let me assure you that we are working on it.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i’m afraid that the council has let down the expectations of the people and the expectations of sustainability very badly in this question too. this is another issue in the line where i think that a mirror could be of very good use to the member states. one could ask why companies need to report income or expenditure in any way. why does it matter for society? we have an overall understanding that it is a matter of public responsibility where you put your money, where you get your money, and whether you pay your taxes or not. this has not been, and is not, the case internationally. therefore, we have a european legislation that concerns capital requirements, that concerns auditing, that concerns accounting, and that concerns reporting – how you report that information. and even though these reports are used for taxation purposes, they are normal legislation, and that is a clear issue of article 50. and i’m afraid that the council has a very fragile fig leaf under which it is trying to hide, claiming that this is a taxation issue when it is a reporting issue. this is the reason, even though we haven’t yet spent– and hopefully not – 11 years on sitting on the issue in the council. we, in the parliament wanted to bring up the motion for a resolution with a serious hope, wish and comment for the council to move forward with that issue rapidly.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not it is incredibly important for social democracy for many years: we need this public corporate tax return, this public country-specific reporting. the commission has acted very quickly in the days following the publication of the panama papers. that was a long time ago, 2016. the commission and the european parliament knew immediately that the people of europe had a right to be given a glimpse into the darkness. employees pay their taxes fairly well, many companies do, and huge corporations often do not tax their fat profits. they make deals with national governments and create structures to reduce their tax contributions. we have therefore acted very quickly in the european parliament and decided as follows: large companies operating in the eu with a turnover of over 750 million euros will have to disclose where they make their profits, how much they pay in taxes, and they simply owe it to the people to know whether and how much tax they pay. the directive is on the table, and what are the member states doing? they are taking an infinite amount of time, and the population is paying for this, of course, because of the lack of funds. we have been waiting for three years in the european parliament for something to finally be done at council level. why is there no more? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why i am calling on the presidency to step over its shadow here. all of them are discussing the sustainable development goals, stricter transparency obligations in the environmental field, in the human rights field. we need this, of course, also in tax transparency. i would also like to ask the co-initiator of this debate, mr ferber, to speak to his party colleague at home, the minister for economic affairs, mr altmaier. i do not think it has appeared yet.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, the truth is that the scandals of tax evasion in the european union are multiplying. we have used the competition law tool - the commission has used it effectively in the last mandate - but after the fiat and starbucks judgments we have also seen that there is a limit to that. and the only way to combat circumvention effectively is with new measures. and this measure of forcing the big companies - remember, those that turn over more than 750 million a year alone - is essential, to force them to tell us exactly what they produce, in which country and how many employees they have, in relation to their financial activity. it is essential to avoid tax evasion. moreover, the arguments when we negotiated this in parliament, that it would create a disadvantage for competitive european companies... look, nothing further from the truth: the banks are already obliged to do that since that measure was previously introduced in the capital requirements directive. so that's not a valid argument. there's no reason to hide, to not get this measure through. and as regards the member states, i want to say very clearly that it is not acceptable from an institutional point of view to hold up a dossier for three years, when this parliament has already spoken and has already taken a position, and to hide behind the question of the legal basis. look, you can't hide behind this issue to not advance the matter. this is absolutely unconscionable. i therefore want to call on all governments to really unblock this directive so that it can go ahead. i would also like to thank the finnish presidency for bringing the subject back on the agenda, because it was completely parked and the finnish presidency has brought it back on and i would like to thank it for that, to know what it expects from the next meetings. give us some more details. i know you cannot give us any commitments today because you are negotiating, but give us at least some perspective, because the citizens really need to know whether any of these measures are going to work out once and for all.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, in our group we are in favour of fighting tax evasion in the european union, but only if it is based, of course, on a system of voluntary and free cooperation by the member states. we are concerned that disclosure of sensitive information on corporate taxation will lead to companies disclosing their strategies, which would obviously affect free competition and unfair competition. we are also concerned that this information could be used for the theory of tax harmonization, which is the word invented by the left to raise taxes on europeans. companies must be free to set up where they wish, in accordance with their strategies, and they must be free to maintain their decisions. the disclosure of such information should not be contrary to these principles and it should be the responsibility of each member state to devise autonomously and sovereignly a tax environment that is favourable to the establishment of companies on its territory. i would like to point out, however, that our group was particularly interested in securing this safeguard clause for companies whose sensitive decisions could be affected and, on the other hand, the fundamental limit of the threshold of eur 750 million so as not to harm small businesses and the selfemployed.
mr president, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, a company or a large company operating in europe is basically operating in the most stable market, the one with the greatest legal certainty, the one with the greatest political stability on earth, so it seems logical that at least it should tell us what it is doing here. what is its actual operating, what are its actual workers and what part of its corporate structure actually belongs to the matrix of its activity. we don't even know that. the opacity is getting bigger. i mean, when one of these companies above publishes some of the data that they have, we get even more in our heads. last week, netflix, for example, published its last year's operating results, and it reported a turnover of 5 billion euros, of which about 600 million euros were profit. in my country - to take one example - spain, which is one of the main centres of its activity, they have declared about 3 000 euros in tax payments. i mean, they've probably paid less than the butcher shop in my neighborhood, and that's unsustainable from a model standpoint. when we talk about country-by-country reporting, what we're basically talking about is the sustainability of our model, of having enough tools to be able to somehow control that taxes are paid where the activity is being carried out. some of these companies - many of them outside the european union - behave in our common space, in our internal market, as the worst mining companies in some third world countries do, leaving behind practically little more than a handful of precarious jobs. madam minister, when we talk about this issue, we are not talking about any issue, we are talking about the very maintenance of our model and the very maintenance of democracy. in the face of a change like the one that is taking place globally, populations are looking more and more to governments and governments are less and less able, in the face of fiscal anemia, to respond to the needs of citizens and, therefore, there is growing bewilderment and growing animosity even towards the system itself. i shall end, madam minister. (the president withdrew the floor.)
mr president, madam minister, what this parliament is asking for today is something simple that should be perfectly feasible: we want transparency; we want to know how much is paid and where it is paid. and if we do not even know the data on the degree of tax compliance of different companies in different countries, we cannot even begin to solve some of the more serious problems facing this parliament. we cannot, quite frankly, regain the trust of the citizens in europe, we cannot regain the trust of the citizens in the european union if we are not able to solve this problem: there are companies that do not pay their taxes and there are countries that are helping them. in 2017, the parliament passed a resolution: we have not even started negotiations; and we have not started negotiations because the resolution has not even been discussed in the council. we must solve this problem - it is extremely urgent - to regain the confidence of citizens in europe.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this discussion and for your different interventions. i have taken good note of your various concerns and will certainly inform my colleagues in the council accordingly. allow me to say a few words about what has been done. as regards tax transparency in the eu, the scope of automatic exchange of information between member states’ tax authorities under the directive on administrative cooperation was expanded on five occasions. for example, from 2018, tax authorities now receive access to country-by-country reports on certain financial information of the largest multinational corporation. this is good. second, from 2020, information on potentially aggressive cross-border tax planning arrangements with tax consultants will now be required to disclose to tax authorities. this is also good. however, i wish to stress that finland’s presidency would like to take this particular file forward and is working towards this aim. you can be assured that we share the same interest in moving forward on this file as quickly as possible. we are determined. as the presidency we will certainly do our best to achieve as much progress as possible. at the same time, and as already mentioned, i will personally definitely keep you informed on the progress on the file on the council’s side. thank you very much again for this very timely and very important discussion. mr president, thank you.
in accordance with rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure, a joint motion for a resolution has been tabled by six groups. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 24 october 2019. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
in writing. it is clear that we all support the general objective of the draft law, which is to tackle tax evasion. but i do want to draw attention to three concerns. first, i believe that the draft law would create an unnecessary administrative burden for the companies concerned. the information that is to be disclosed under the draft is something that companies have to send to the tax authorities in the member states anyway, so it's just an extra obligation and we're not getting anything out of it. the second point i would like to make is that the range of information that we are going to release may include confidential information. it is therefore questionable to me whether the disclosure of such data brings anything to the kitchen or rather benefits competing companies outside the union, since they will not be subject to that obligation. we're shooting ourselves in the foot again, damaging our own competitiveness. the third point i want to make is that the legal basis of the bill is problematic. this is also consistent with the position of the council legal service (cls) that article 50 (1) tfeu as defined by the commission is not the correct legal basis, and that the legal basis for the proposal can only be article 115 tfeu. the proposal should therefore not be treated within the framework of company law but should be considered as a tax proposal requiring a unanimous decision. so, with the plan in its current form, we're losing more on customs than we're gaining on grapes.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the turkish military operation in north-eastern syria and its consequences (2019/2886 ((rsp)). as you know, we have a new system for the ad hoc word messages, the blue cards and the spontaneous word messages. i do not need to repeat this, but you can use either the traditional form of the blue card or the electronic form. you do not have to wait for the end of the debate to make spontaneous remarks.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, the turkish incursion into north—east syria seems to have slowed down. we acknowledge the contribution made by several international actors to ensure that this is the case. we have seen high—level diplomatic efforts aimed at de—escalating tensions, firstly a few days ago by the united states’ vice president pence and secretary of state pompeo, who negotiated a temporary truce with turkey. we also know note the memorandum signed only yesterday between president putin and president erdoğan in sochi. the high representative was in the parliament with you on the first day of the offensive and she immediately made clear our request that turkey immediately stop the attack. turkey’s concerns must be addressed diplomatically, not through military action that can only further destabilise the region and bring more suffering to the syrian population. we are also relieved that humanitarian agencies have not had to suspend their response – at least not entirely – and that those displaced from their homes for fear of the fighting have begun to return. yet there can be no excuse for the nearly 200 civilian deaths that have occurred, nor for the bombing of hospitals, ambulances and water stations. we care about the fate of syrian kurds and indeed for all the civilians in the zone of hostilities. the only way to address their aspirations and recognise the sacrifice made by the syrian democratic forces in the fight against daesh is to help build a democratic and inclusive syria – a country that all its citizens can home. there can be no military solution to the syrian conflict. it is crucial that instead we support the political process and that a lasting solution is found for all parties involved. thus, we have a duty to support the work of the constitutional committee due to meet for the first time at the end of the month in geneva. despite recent events – or rather, all the more so because of them – the time is right for that committee to meet. we have full confidence in the united nations special envoy, geir pedersen, and we believe that a step—by—step political solution can be found. launching the constitutional committee can set a positive cycle of trust and confidence and eventually bring about the changes necessary for a peaceful and stable future for syria. we all know that the path towards a negotiated political transition will not be easy. yet we must agree with our international partners – and yes, russia and turkey too – that changes must be made to the way syria is governed. we must agree that justice and accountability must be brought for the crimes committed by all sides during the course of that conflict right up to idlib and the most recent offensive. this is for the sake of the peace, stability and reconciliation that we all crave for syria. let me turn now to turkey and its responsibility for the current situation. turkey’s security concerns at its border with syria will not be answered by military intervention. this offensive instead undermines the fight against daesh and threatens our common security. turkey has made tremendous efforts in hosting several million refugees for many years – there’s no doubt about that – yet turkey’s military action is only making an already highly complex situation in the region even more difficult to resolve. it only adds to an already complex and dramatic situation. this is why the eu leaders and eu foreign ministers have condemned turkey’s incursion and this is also why member states have decided to halt arms exports licensing to turkey. they insist that the incursion must not just be stopped temporarily, but it must cease altogether. the foreign affairs council has also made clear that we will not provide stabilisation or development assistance in areas where the rights of local populations are ignored or violated. the european union has been clear and united on all this from the very first day of the incursion. we are glad that the council, the commission and parliament have passed the very same messages and we thank the european parliament for its continued support to ending the war and supporting a political solution under the auspices of the united nations.
member of the commission,on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, thank you very much for the opportunity to update you on the recent humanitarian developments in north-east syria. the crisis that unfolded on 9 october has led to civilian casualties, displacement of people, destruction of civilian infrastructure. heavy fighting took place, including in highly populated areas. there are reports of nearly 200 civilian deaths. at the height of the hostilities, nearly 200 000 people have been displaced. some have now started going home, but the remaining over 150 000 displaced people come in addition to over 200 000 people that were already in camps and informal sites or hosting arrangements before the crisis. humanitarian staff were denied safe and unimpeded access to people in need due to shelling and airstrikes, or uncertainty regarding territorial control. international ngos and un agencies had to evacuate staff to iraq. let me underline what the eu presidency just said: there can be no excuse for these civilian deaths, damage to civilian infrastructure, absence of protection of people and those who are there to help them. i am particularly concerned about the horrific situations faced by healthcare providers. hospitals in tell abiad and ras al ein are out of service due to heavy bombing and shelling, kobane hospital was temporarily out of service because the electricity line and the generators were cut by mortars and because of shelling; ambulances have been reportedly targeted, preventing the evacuation of patients from the front lines; medical staff have been killed and even kidnapped. to make matters worse, the emergency is affecting the provision of basic services to a population that was already suffering before the crisis. while the international staff were evacuated, this does not mean that the humanitarian community is no longer assisting the people in need. life-saving assistance continues to be delivered. we are supporting our humanitarian partners in north-east syria with eur 38 million and we will continue to support them for as long as it is needed. but the fighting must stop. and it remains paramount that international humanitarian law is fully respected and that civilians are protected. humanitarian workers must be allowed access to those in need. all precautions must be taken to mitigate the risk of harming aid workers, their facilities and assets, including convoys, and the people they serve. humanitarian workers should not be any sort of target. let me also take this opportunity to recall the eu’s line with regard to the return of refugees to syria. all returns should be safe, voluntary and dignified, and only once the conditions are in place – otherwise the eu will not be in a position to provide support. the same applies to the so-called buffer zone that turkey is seeking to establish in the north of syria with a view to eventually sending refugees back. and let me also recall the recent eu28 statement that any attempt at demographic change would be unacceptable. at the same time, the european union will not provide stabilisation or development assistance in areas where the rights of local populations are ignored. the european commission has recognised and supported the efforts of turkey to host millions of refugees in its territory. but turkey’s military action in north-east syria has aggravated an already dramatic situation on the ground. i am glad that the european institutions have been united in their reaction against turkey’s military action. but there should be no time for complacency. the brokered ceasefire was only partially respected. we must use all our power; all our leverage to stop hostilities, to put an end to this humanitarian tragedy and to allow our assistance to fully resume, and of course reach in parallel a political solution under the un.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not there is a broad consensus in this house: we condemn turkey's illegal invasion of northern syria and we demand the withdrawal of these troops from syrian territory. we are not naive, we know what was agreed yesterday in sochi. the more regrettable is that this behaviour was only made possible by a unilateral withdrawal of us troops. the turkish attitude is further distancing the country politically from the european union. that is why we also recalled in our resolution that this parliament had already called for the formal suspension of the accession negotiations in march. we ask the council to consider appropriate, targeted economic measures which do not affect civil society, which do not therefore limit the possibility of turkish people, for example, continuing to participate in the erasmus+ programme and study with us. we have, for example, an agreement on agricultural products. you might want to think about doing something there. or we mentioned that as a last resort, we could consider suspending the customs union. the people in this region of northern syria do not want to see turks or russians or the assad regime there. that is why we have included in our resolution a demand, and i quote in english: 'calls on the member states to again turn to the un security council to obtain a resolution which will allow the council to act in a targeted manner, ultimately aiming at a un-led security zone in northern syria for the benefit of the people living there'. calls on the member states to once again turn to the un security council to obtain a resolution which will allow the council to act in a targeted manner, ultimately aiming at a un-led security zone in northern syria for the benefit of the people living there.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, dear colleagues, two weeks have passed since our last plenary session and our debate on this crisis. the establishment of a so-called safe zone has de facto become the establishment of a war zone and the turkish invasion of north-east syria. the winners are putin, assad, turkey, iran and isis, and the losers are the citizens of north-east syria and the credibility of the west. a total of 218 civilians and 600 sdf fighters have been killed. more than 300 000 civilians had to leave their homes and are now displaced, struggling to find safety. they are caught between advancing turkish troops and syrian forces moving in from the south, and hundreds of is fighters, including eu citizens, have escaped guarded camps. the summary execution of kurdish politician hevrin khalaf, one of the many courageous women in north-east syria, is an absolute outrage. the latest reports refer also to the alleged use of white phosphorus against civilians by turkish-backed forces in ras al-ayn. the perpetrators of these heinous acts must be prosecuted, and while the us president hails the cease-fire as great news that will save millions of lives, i can only reject, on behalf of this house, its very basic premise. yesterday’s russia-turkey deal legitimises the turkish presence of a 10-kilometre zone along the syrian border, the refoulement of two million refugees and the displacement of the local population. all of these are grave violations of the most basic principles of international law, refugee law and humanitarian law. we have called for targeted sanctions against turkish officials, restrictive economic measures and a full weapons embargo, and beyond any legal and political consideration, i wish to underline that abandoning all those who suffered from isis and who fought against isis making the ultimate sacrifice for our own security is not and should never be an option.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, numerous mistakes have been made by the international community in syria since 2011. we have to remember the atrocities of the assad regime – aleppo, the presence of the iranian revolutionary guard backing the assad regime, and the cruel wagner group of russian mercenaries that was so well known in eastern ukraine. we are concerned by the recent operation, the third in line of turkey in north-eastern syria. i would like to quote stoltenberg’s statement as probably the most balanced one: ‘while turkey has legitimate security concerns, i expect the country to act with restraint’. and to all of us, we expect this restraint, certainly. yet we have to know that equal measures should be applied to all actors in the region, and we have to find adequate tools to stabilise the region and influence activities that ease the tension.
mr. chairman, as we once again discuss the consequences of the turkish intervention in northern syria, the agreement on the withdrawal of kurdish forces between the united states and turkey has expired. but it's already been replaced by a new, similar agreement between turkey and russia, the two opposing sides in principle when it comes to syria's territorial integrity. it seems to be a deal acceptable to all three parties involved. but the question remains, what about the kurdish fighters who have made an extraordinary contribution to the fight against the islamic state? what about the islamic state fighters that are no longer under control, and for which the member countries still refuse to take responsibility? and most importantly, what about the local population who are in no way involved in this deal? the primary objective must be to end military operations, especially the use of chemical weapons. but the european union cannot be a passive observer of others' agreements. i certainly support the proposed measures of arms embargo, asset freeze on individuals, as well as specifically targeted economic sanctions, all of which can be instruments of our action. however, how can we expect strategic decisions from the european union on syria when the same failed to reach a decision on the immediate neighbourhood by opening accession negotiations last week? again, we're opening up space to people who are more active than we are, but who don't share our interests and values.
president, ladies and gentlemen, erdoğan has us where he wants us. he's got europe all in a twist. first of all, because in 2016 we outsourced our own migration policy to him. he holds the keys to the gateway to europe, which allows him to threaten repeatedly to open that great gate with waves of migration. secondly, now, by invading northern syria, supposedly to create a safe zone, supposedly for their safety, but we all know it's to fight the kurds. 'where is europe?' people ask. what is europe doing to bring an end to this bloody conflict? well, europe is sitting idle. europe is watching as putin supports the dictatorial regime of assad. europe watches america take military command first and then walk away. today europe is watching idly as turkey, under false pretenses, worsens the conflict. the tragedy is that we have been reduced to the status of spectators, when we are faced with the consequences of the crisis. we'll have to follow the migration flows. it's our young people who are radicalizing and going there. colleagues, it is high time for action: firstly, we must establish a dialogue with turkey, and secondly, we must ensure that the safe zone is under un control. that is what parliament wants. it is also high time that europe took charge of its own security policy. we will not have to rely on the americans and the russians to defend our interests. i would also like to call for consideration to be given to the more than 700 european children in the camps. they deserve our attention. they don't have to pay for the sins of their parents. and let us really make a european defence union and a real european asylum and migration policy work. thank you, sir.
madam president, the turkish military operation in north—eastern syria is yet another devastating event in an extremely tragic conflict. it has serious humanitarian, military and political repercussions, it causes suffering for the local people and it may contribute to a resurgence of islamic terrorism. i would like to underline what colleagues, especially the group coordinators of the epp, s&d and alde, have mentioned this morning. i would like to inform you that this week in my capacity as chair of the committee on foreign affairs (afet) i published, together with the chairs of the foreign affairs committees of germany, france, the united kingdom and also the us house of representatives, a joint statement on the turkish invasion. in our letter, we consider the abandonment of the syrian kurds to be wrong as the syrian democratic forces massively contributed to the successful yet unfinished fight against daesh in syria. we deeply regret the decision of the president of the united states to withdraw american troops from north-eastern syria and we call upon the european union and the member states to take responsibility and engage in the conflict resolution. in our draft resolution that will be voted tomorrow, we also call for a strong and comprehensive eu reaction to this ongoing crisis. a final remark – i welcome initiatives to establish an internationally controlled security zone in north-east syria. such a zone could stabilise the region and make sure that rebuilding civilian life is possible again.
madam president, as the council has stated - and as my group has said - the turkish military operation in syrian territory is a clear violation of international law. there are all kinds of political contraindications, but this is the one we must put first. international law is the framework for all and it is the framework that the european union has used to set a path for peace and reconstruction of the country with a plural constitutional council. so no security concerns that turkey can raise justify a military invasion of a neighbouring country; that is not a solution, but the prologue to the next problem. turkey, as a member of the atlantic alliance, can ask for solidarity from its allies, but it cannot act outside the multilateral legal framework. holding huge numbers of syrian refugees is also not a passport to militarily invade a neighbor, and to claim that you are defending that neighbor's sovereignty and territorial integrity by militarily disposing of its soil and its population is contradictory in itself. no one can go to a neighbouring country to interfere in its complex ethnic or demographic balances and this is regardless of the military force that leaves and the military force that comes to fill that unexpected and dangerous void. no one can have a territory and the only possible resettlement is that of syrian families in their places of origin on a voluntary basis.
madam president, the turkish invasion of syria is without a doubt a tragedy. but it is a predictable tragedy, because turkey has interests in the region - it has serious interests - and the three and a half million refugees it has there are an absolutely incontrovertible fact, which weighs like a stone, and which we have ignored until what is happening now has happened. i think that pressure must certainly be put on turkey to show restraint and to create exclusion zones and protected areas. but in fact, neither turkey is interested in a "putin pax" in syria in the long run, because it would only benefit putin himself and iran, nor can europe do anything at this moment but cry and lick its wounds because we have done absolutely nothing. and to think that the americans will always be everywhere, putting money and putting the dead, is a thing that is perfectly unrealistic, which in europe we see continuously and which certainly has no future.
i have to say, madam president, there is a saying that the first casualty in any war is the truth. the title of this turkish military action is 'source of peace'. that was the first lie from the beginning. it is not a source of peace, it is a source of violence and displacement, of atrocities that turkey has set in motion and has caused to bubble up. turkey does not care about european values; we must take note of that. we must withdraw turkey's status as a candidate country for membership of the european union. is it not absurd that a small minority of government leaders are preventing countries like albania and north macedonia, which have done so much for european values and reforms, from gaining accession status, while turkey still has accession status? let us send a clear signal, let us cool off the already weak turkish economy by suspending the customs union, let us send a clear signal to turkey! we don't reject people forever. we know that half of the turkish population is not behind the regime, but the regime needs a cool head, and a cool economy will help. we are speaking on behalf of the europeans. let's send a clear signal to the world.
madam president, about an hour and a half ago we were again discussing in this chamber the turkish invasion of afrin. from this particular operation, the only thing that's changed is the name. from the "branch of elijah" we passed to the "fountain of peace". but let's be clear, erdoğan, from the backdrop of destabilizing syria, is now a protagonist with the tolerance of the international community and the major geopolitical players in the region and is striking at the kurds, those who resisted the islamic state and the crimes against humanity it has committed. after eight years of bloody civil war, the turkish invasion is a source of blood and a source of human crisis, not a source of peace, as mr erdoğan ironically called it, who is not going to respect international law, no matter how much we shout. that is why we need real sanctions now, an immediate pan-european arms embargo which will not be limited to new orders but will immediately stop the supply of arms from all member states. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action against the terrorist groups in the middle east, and that the european union is able to take action against the terrorist groups in the middle east. (applause from the centre and the right)
president, with the withdrawal of american troops from northern syria, president trump is completely abandoning the kurds and the christians there. the so-called deal that the american leader in his infinite wisdom has made with dictator erdoğan is not working. putin and erdogan have now taken control of it. unfortunately, the council of foreign ministers is also embarrassed: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. this too is a slap in the face to the kurds and the christians in the region. so it is time for a very firm european position: the european union must not suspend military and financial and economic relations with turkey, but must stop them altogether, and europe must support the kurds and the christians wherever possible. thank you, sir.
madam president, today's debate has shown that the serious facts of the turkish military operation in north-eastern syria have dramatic social, political and economic consequences. but this morning i want to emphasize the release of thousands of isis terrorists with european passports: they can return to europe, with the consequent security crisis throughout the union. ladies and gentlemen, we have thousands of terrorists unchecked trying to reach europe and we cannot afford it. in spain we have suffered the scourge of eta terrorism for decades, with thousands of victims, but it was defeated by the work of the security forces and bodies, by the judiciary, by the rule of law and by the support of spanish society. that is why, in our experience, we believe that in order to fight terrorism, the european union needs a more comprehensive and ambitious foreign, security and defence policy which prevents these former isis fighters from being able to commit terrorist acts in the face of their lack of control.
madam president, i think we should all get together and really listen to what is being said here because everybody is talking about science and here it's almost talking about magic. these are words that are all laden with ideology. you're not really speaking with common sense. we're getting further and further away from the language of rationality. we're getting more and more into ideology. we're getting more and more radical. it's already in the title of the "climate emergency"; it's already loaded. everything is laden with ideology in this debate and above all we have some new clerics who are excluding from the debate all those who question, who seek other positions or who have other real positions. i think we should all make an effort in this to not allow these clerics, these fanatics to take control of the discussion and that is what seems to be happening in europe. if they take control of this discussion, what have been the substitute ideologies in the 20th century - which have been communism and nazism - are going to be replaced now by this kind of ideologies of environmentalism and climate catastrophism.
madam president, climate change is a certainty today, and its scale requires us to act immediately. but agriculture is now the most vulnerable to climate change than any other sector. at the same time, farmers in the european union are the main guardians of the environment. the agricultural sector and rural areas in the european union are essential to the well-being of european citizens, which requires access to quality food at affordable prices. in 2050, the world's population will be 30% larger than today, forcing us to strengthen our role as the world's largest food producer and food security guarantor. in the face of the threats and risks posed by climate change, member states need to develop eco-schemes that incentivise farmers to prioritise the most climate- and environmentally efficient agricultural practices.
madam president, there is no doubt that the environment and sustainability are one of the great challenges we must face, especially in view of the terrible effects of natural disasters, such as the floods in spain in september, where we must even mourn the deaths. but unfortunately the left has for many years been trying to make the debate on everything relating to environmental conservation a heritage. the left has colonized the common ground in such a way that any realistic policy to address the climate future seems impractical without making a revolution. the left is arguing that the reports of the international panel on warming and sustainability are a particular reckoning with the development of capitalism and globalisation, which has been pending since its enormous moral defeat in 1989. development and progress are not enemies of the environment. let us not forget the great role played by private management in the preservation of natural spaces and ecosystems throughout europe. this issue cannot be tackled without emphasising the local, the link between the individual and his environment, personal responsibility and the role of local bodies. i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to stop using the environment as an argument for other political battles, to get away from exaggeration, fatalism and stigmatisation and to start working towards offering real proposals to the citizens.
madam president, i thank commissioner oettinger and i thank especially president lehne for presenting the annual report to the european parliament. as the s&d group's alternative rapporteur for the discharge for the other institutions, i would like to stress that in the court's report i miss a greater focus on the financial management of the other institutions: in the 2018 report we find some slight notes on the european commission and parliament, but that's it. i know that the error rate has been very low in recent years, but i am convinced that a more thorough examination of the situation will only result in the operational expenditure of the other institutions being carried out with ever greater rigour and efficiency, and will also help parliament in its monitoring work. if the court does this work for the 41 agencies, devoting an exclusive annual report to them, i am sure that it will also be able to find the financial and human means to do a report for the eight institutions of the union.
madam president, the national assembly has always considered that asylum policy should remain a national competence. the european court of auditors has just given him the right in its report published in 2019, denouncing the scandalous dysfunctions of the european asylum support agency. on pages 202 to 213 of its report, the court of auditors reveals that the agency signed irregular contracts worth around eur 3.5 million. even worse, this agency launched a public contract worth 50 million euros in 2018 which was so blatantly illegal that it had to be ended in a hurry. at the same time - and i quote the report - the human resources situation in the country has deteriorated exponentially, to the point where the executive director has had to resign. these findings are overwhelming. they prove that the court of auditors is doing its job well, but also and above all that the european union is unfit to manage the asylum policy of the european states.
madam president, i would like to thank the president of the court of auditors and the commissioner for presenting an annual report which is of great value in understanding the accounts of the european union. as both have said, in 2018 the error for the expenditure as a whole was above the 2% threshold. it is clear that efforts to adjust this deviation must continue. and as regards the issue of natural resources, and specifically the cap, we know that efforts are being made to simplify the task of the administrations, but the truth is that the complexity is only increasing for the final recipient, who are the farmers. the lack of simplification, the ever-growing bureaucracy and the complex requirements which they have to meet in order to receive aid are affecting the activities of our farmers, who have to spend more time on paperwork than on agricultural work. i hope that the court of auditors will continue to demand that the commission coordinate its work with the member states.
madam president, once again the european left brings to this parliament the debate on the death of human beings in the mediterranean. but, again, you ask the wrong questions and the answers are therefore wrong. it doesn't tell us that in 2019 the number of deaths has decreased compared to 2018 perhaps because the ports in europe have been closed. on thursday we shall vote on this motion for a resolution on search and rescue, and my group is putting forward an alternative motion for a resolution based on scrupulous respect for national laws and the decisions of the member states, the relentless fight against human trafficking and its necessary collaborators, and the strengthening of cooperation mechanisms between states. the correct answers or the correct questions would be the following: what measures should we propose to end the call effect and eradicate this business model of the human trafficking mafias and their ngos that collaborate in trafficking? why does the european left insist on not complying with the facilitation directive which gives the member states sovereign competence to decide who gets in, under what conditions and who should be sanctioned if they do not comply with the entry conditions?
madam president, i repeat what my colleague said before me. so far in 2019, more than a thousand people have lost their lives in the mediterranean trying to reach europe. a thousand people. a thousand human beings. the deaths of those responsible: the racist policies of the european union. the ones that some of them vote right here in their seats. we make resolutions that condemn, but the policies don't change. instead of creating a civilian rescue and salvage corps and enabling humanitarian visas from areas of armed conflict or climate emergency, they keep pushing the boundaries further away. it's no longer worth it to fund libyan militias involved in the slave trade, now a detention center is also going to be opened in rwanda. in the case of spain, the governments of the socialist party and the popular party have been pioneers in implementing the policies of externalization of borders in morocco. a recent example of its consequences: the death of ansou keita after being beaten by the moroccan auxiliary forces in a raid. that's how the policies of this house end, with more death and more suffering. i end with a reminder: international law obliges us to save lives. i hope that if they do not, they will have to answer to a court of law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the protests that have shaken iraq do not have ethnic or sectarian lines, they have involved sunni, shiite and kurdish youth. denouncing corruption, chronic unemployment and poor public services, the protests have escalated to demand a complete overhaul of the political system. the authorities' response was unjustified, terrible and brutal: 149 civilians have died as a result of the indiscriminate use of force by the authorities themselves. this friday, the demonstrations are expected to resume. it is essential, ladies and gentlemen, to call on the iraqi government to ensure that the fundamental freedoms of its people are fully respected. it's not just iraq that is protesting against political systems that work for the few and not for the many: chile, lebanon, egypt, bolivia, sudan are just a few examples of what can now be called a global trend and it is not the only country where these protests have been followed by anti-democratic measures such as internet shutdown, media repression and violence by public authorities. unregulated globalization and growing social inequality have exacerbated tensions between and within countries. only with growth models based on social inclusion and putting people at the centre can we give answers.
mr president, iraq - we all know this - is not only the cradle of our civilization, but it is also, i am sure, one of the few liberal democratic projects, or attempts at democratic projects, in the middle east. that is why i believe that as such a project it deserves all the political, diplomatic and even financial support of the european union. that said, it is clear that what has happened in the last few weeks is totally unacceptable. it must be condemned by the european union; we must demand accountability; we must get to the bottom of these deaths - over 150 deaths - caused by police firing on unarmed demonstrators, who were demonstrating to demand - as it cannot be otherwise - social and economic improvements in iraq. i therefore believe that we must reaffirm our commitment to the iraqi people, both in their social welfare and in the defence of their human rights.
mr president, i will speak in spanish, obviously addressing mrs mogherini, as it cannot be otherwise. iraq has been caught in a constant cycle of sectarian violence, discontent and frustration for years, and the european union must help to reverse this. recently - and it has been spoken about throughout this session - thousands of young iraqis have taken to the streets to protest against corruption, against the lack of basic services and against unemployment - as has also been commented. legitimate demands that have been met with cutting off internet connections, harassment of journalists and an unusual level of violence by the government. we must therefore strongly condemn this unjustified use of force, which has so far claimed the lives of more than 157 protesters and left thousands injured. the victims must therefore be compensated and the responsibilities of those involved duly cleared. this cycle of violence and discontent will continue as long as the main problems of governance in iraq continue, which we all know what they are: corruption, cronyism and a political system that aggravates the most sectarian division in the country. the european union must therefore call on the iraqi government to comply with its international commitments, to put an end to the violence and to remind it of its duty to guarantee the rights of the iraqi people to freedom of expression, assembly and the press. ladies and gentlemen, that is our obligation and therefore our demands.
mr president, since the beginning of october, protesters in iraq demanding a better life, better public services and an end to rampant corruption have been met with a hail of bullets and water cannon by the authoritarian regime. such lethal force has murdered at least 105 people and wounded over 4 000. the iraqi authorities must stop. we in the european parliament must demand that the government in baghdad listen to its people and rein in its security forces. we must also ensure iraqis’ right to freedom of speech, and that also includes the free use of the internet. the iraqi government is obligated under international human rights law to protect the right to free expression and peaceful assembly. the authorities should release all protestors who have not been charged with a recognisable criminal offence. lastly, we should also raise our concern about collective punishment measures being deployed by the iraqi authorities against its own citizens thought to have relatives who joined daesh. those measures are illegal and risk starting a new wave of violence in iraq.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, allow me to say that this exchange of views was very useful and of course very timely. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the honourable members for their interventions, comments and suggestions. from this debate, i conclude that we all need to continue monitoring closely the developments in iraq and reflect on the country’s shift from stabilisation to reconstruction, coupled with good governance, human rights and prosperity. i would also like to say that we should use all opportunities in our bilateral and multilateral contacts to re-emphasise the urgency of meeting the needs and aspirations of the iraqi people, and of addressing the regional challenges affecting the country. in the coming months, the first dialogues will take place under the iraq-eu partnership and cooperation agreement since it entered into force, and this debate will surely inform its context. allow me therefore to express my appreciation for your attention and support in maintaining this important file at the top of our agenda.
the debate is closed.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statement by the council and the commission on the united nations high level political declaration on universal health coverage (2019/2861 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, if you allow me, i might remark that speaking about health at such a late hour is a bit contradictory. having been at this very plenary since 9.00 this morning, i think we all should be resting already at this point – if we think about our health. nevertheless, however, it is a pleasure to discuss with you the recent high-level event that took place on 23 september in the context of the united nations general assembly on universal health coverage: moving together to build a healthier world. that event brought together heads of states, political and health leaders, policy makers and universal health coverage champions, to advocate for better health for all. universal health coverage means that all people, including the most vulnerable – or should i say, especially the most vulnerable – have access to the health care they need, when and where they need it, without facing financial hardship. the aim was to harness financial and political commitments to sustain health investments, with the focus on accelerating progress towards universal health coverage, including access to essential health services, a skilled health workforce, financial risk protection and access to safe, quality, effective and affordable medicines and vaccines for all. this ambitious aim was achieved in the form of an action-oriented political declaration on universal health coverage endorsed by heads of states representing the entire united nations membership. this is all the more remarkable as this was our last opportunity before 2023 – the midway point, to reach the sustainable development goals by 2030 – to mobilise the highest levels of political support, to bring the entire health agenda under the umbrella of universal health coverage. the declaration is accompanied by a concrete global action plan for healthy lives and well-being that will serve as a blueprint for global health and development agencies as well as national governments to meet health needs. we are all aware, of course, that big question marks still remain concerning the significant financing needed now until 2030 in order to live up to our ambitious commitments. this will have to be secured through a mix of domestic financing based on individual country contexts, and international aid-funding mechanisms. this is no doubt our main task ahead. it is daunting, but our credibility will be at stake if we fail. finally, i would like to stress the leadership role that the eu and its member states must continue to play on the issue of universal health coverage, in the multilateral context that is so dear to us but which we should not take for granted. 2020 will be a test year in that regard, with the 25th anniversary reviews of the 1994 cairo international conference on population and development and the 1995 beijing platform for action. the eu and its member states will need to position themselves at the forefront to protect the progress achieved 25 years ago and ensure that there is no stepping back. such european leadership was demonstrated once again during the high-level event on universal health coverage, and i wish to commend minister kaag of the netherlands for leading a strong coalition of 58 countries in support of sexual and reproductive health and rights. these are part and parcel of the 2030 agenda and a cornerstone of a universal health coverage. investing in sexual and reproductive health and rights is affordable and cost-saving and can make health coverage truly universal, in line with our key promise under the 2030 agenda: that we shall leave no one behind. i want to stress that the presidency will spare no effort to continue to promote universal access to health care, which all human beings, in particular the most vulnerable, need, when and where they need it, in line with the ‘economy of well-being’ approach introduced by our finnish presidency.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, on 23 september heads of states, governments and health ministers convened on the margins of the united nations general assembly for the first time ever for a high—level meeting on universal health coverage. they endorsed a landmark political declaration – universal health coverage moving to build a healthier world. the commission welcomes this historical event at which the united nations member states recognised that universal health coverage implies access for everyone to promotable, preventive, curative, rehabilitative and palliative essential health services, and access to effective medicines and vaccines. the united nations member states committed to invest in primary health care, to ensure financially affordable health care, to protect women and children’s health and to strengthen the health workforce and reinforce government health capacity. regrettably, the declaration also demonstrated the visible division among un member states on sexual and reproductive health and rights. the netherlands delivered a statement on behalf of 54 countries strongly supporting universal health coverage for sexual and reproductive health and rights. the united states, along with 19 other countries, dissociated from the relevant paragraph in the declaration, in a call to roll back on sexual and reproductive health and rights. commissioner andriukaitis, speaking on behalf of the european union, stressed the eu’s commitment to the sustainable development goals, and to the protection and promotion of everyone’s right to enjoy the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health. health is essential for achieving stable and prosperous societies, economic and social well—being and security. to address health comprehensively, along with the rights—based approach already used through the implementation of the european pillar of social rights, we need a ‘health in all policies’ approach going beyond the boundaries of the health sector alone. working in parallel on gender equality, water and sanitation, education, food and nutritional security, decent work and social protection, environment and security, could bring us the tangible results we aim at. in that vein, the european union should remain committed to the promotion, protection and fulfilment of all human rights, including sexual and reproductive health rights, and continue the full and effective implementation of the beijing platform for action, as agreed in the new consensus on development. the upcoming nairobi summit in november will also celebrate and reinforce the commitments made with the programme of action from the international conference on population and development adopted 25 years ago. i am pleased that a delegation of the european parliament will attend this high—level meeting. the union’s actions have produced impressive results. between 2013 and 2017, the european union contributed to over 19 million births attended by skilled health personnel. more than 13 million children were fully immunised. 57 million women were supported to use contraception. eleven million people were put on life—saving treatment for hiv and 600 million bed nets were distributed for malaria protection and prevention. we also support the world health organisation (who). just recently, the union signed an agreement with the who for an eur 102 million partnership programme prioritising strengthening health systems and universal health coverage. as a global leader, the european union will continue supporting partner countries in their efforts to build strong, good quality and resilient healthcare systems by providing equitable access to medical services and universal health coverage. as such, we will strive to reach our ambitious goal of universal health coverage for all by 2030.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, we have made great progress in combating the world's leading causes of death and disease: life expectancy has increased exponentially, infant and maternal mortality rates have fallen, we have turned the tide on hiv, and deaths from malaria have been cut in half. yet, progress in the world has been uneven. there is still a gap of 31 years between the countries with the shortest and the longest life expectancies. four hundred million people lack access to basic health services. every two seconds someone between the ages of 30 and 70 dies prematurely from noncommunicable diseases. and one in three women has suffered physical or sexual violence at some point in her life. so the facts show us that universal health coverage gives us better life expectancy, but it's also an engine of economic and social growth for all societies around the world. one of the great examples of success, of course, is europe, where we have the best national public health system in the world; where we invest in prevention and health promotion from primary care; where we research the most advanced treatments; where we train the best health professionals; and where above all we have quality and universality in care and access to treatment. so, this political declaration at the end is looking to globally meet the third sustainable development goal. in europe we have two major instruments, which are our strength, to help us achieve our objectives. the first instrument we have is our european model of health care and the second is our model of international cooperation. i therefore ask the finnish presidency and the commission to promote more cross-sectoral partnerships between our public health systems and those of other countries in the world to share knowledge, research and access to treatment. and since europe is the world leader in international cooperation, spending over 72 billion euros a year on it - and many of the programmes funded are health programmes - let us give priority to international cooperation programmes for health programmes, especially those that make a difference in preventing and promoting health, starting with nutrition and primary care; and let us give priority to our cooperation programmes aimed above all at reducing the global maternal and child mortality rate, also reducing premature mortality from noncommunicable diseases, and ending epidemics of communicable diseases. only then, with these great instruments europe has, and with our leadership, can we achieve universal coverage in all corners of the world by 2030.
mr president, the un declaration is a great step forward. look: in 1986, a hero of spanish democracy, a socialist, a catalan, ernest lluch, launched the health law that instituted universal coverage in our country. twenty-five years later, a people's party government withdrew it, breaking one of the basic principles of our health care system, health justice. this decision left hundreds of thousands of people without coverage, increasing epidemiological risks and causing thousands of young people, who had emigrated because of the crisis, to be left without healthcare. in 2018, another socialist government of pedro sánchez restored universal coverage. why this brief history of spanish health care? well, it serves to show that statements alone are not enough. we must be vigilant on our right to avoid being left with mere intentions and the temptation of health cuts returning to europe. the right to health protection does not understand race, sex, color, condition, borders. it is an effort, but it is the investment with the greatest return on progress that our countries can aspire to. to defend him always. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the question of the 'blue card'. spain has never ceased to have universal and free healthcare for all spaniards. you lied to me.
the answer is 'blue card'. i have to answer mrs montserrat, who has been the minister of health of my country, that yes, they made a decree where they withdrew the universality of health care. she says, "for all spaniards". it is true; because a minister, before her, tried to discriminate against those who were not spanish or those young spaniards who left the country for more than three months and were left without the right to health care; as some young women who wanted to come to give birth to our country and could not do so because the pp had withdrawn their health rights. i know you didn't take that action, but you're partly responsible for it. in addition, today the community of madrid is also trying to do the same in these health policies, because in spain they are transferred to the regions.
mr president, in uganda homosexual relations are punished by life imprisonment because they are contrary to the natural order, a fanciful term which has been used since the middle ages and which has led to the death of homosexuals in many parts of the world. murdering them is what the new ugandan minister of ethics and integrity wants to do now, although already, in 2014, the constitutional court declared this same attempt null. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and just yesterday we had a debate in this house on an anti-discrimination directive which has been blocked in the council for ten years. there's also a homophobic, transgendered far-right woman sitting here. nor is it a question of withholding financial aid to uganda, further punishing a vulnerable population, as has been done on other occasions. we must condemn such initiatives without reservation, but to be credible we should protect the lgbtq community adequately and ensure that all states offer asylum and refuge to those who suffer persecution because of their sexual orientation and gender identity. we are? this is what we have to ask ourselves when we talk about uganda.
mr president, africa needs us, uganda needs us, but development cooperation and humanitarian aid must be accompanied by a clear and concrete demand for respect for the dignity of all people - and all people are also lgbti people. eradicating poverty, combating discrimination and inequalities without leaving anyone behind is a fundamental element; this is stated in the treaty on european union itself, which states that external action will be based on the principle of the universality and indivisibility of human rights. the new cooperation instrument provides more than eur 32 billion for africa, more than one third of the budget. we in this parliament must ensure that this budget is implemented with respect for and empowerment of lgbti people. the cotonou agreement itself also states that failure to respect human rights may be grounds for breaking off the agreement. failing that, we should be the guarantor of these rights. defending human rights is defending lgbt rights, without indivisibility.
author. mr president, in recent years we have seen a worrying trend in the tightening of criminal laws, almost always in two directions: the persecution of political dissent and the criminalisation of the proposal itself; with different magnitudes, in different places, but with those aspects, as is happening today in indonesia. this reform in indonesia has clear enemies: it speaks of marxist-leninist ideas, of non-religious groups, expanding alleged blasphemy crimes that already exist in the country, and also criminalizes women who exercise their right to abortion and lgbtq people, as well as adultery. it is a country that has not yet come to terms with its past. in 2008, dictator haji suharto died, who had murdered between 600,000 and two million people in 1965. the persecution of political dissent goes back a long way. and what should the european union do? we are clear about this: it must be firm in defending its values, firm in defending human rights, in europe and in the world. we talk about feminism, pluralism and freedom, but we forget about it very soon when free trade comes.
madam president, i am really glad that we can have this debate in the house today, although it is certainly not the best time or the best day; many of our colleagues have already left after the votes, but well... i am also pleased that citizens are in the gallery, that they can follow this debate, and i take this opportunity to welcome them because it is a debate of great importance, as my colleagues in the group, mr tang and mr fernandez, who i congratulate on having raised this oral question, and my colleague and friend, mr carême, of the green group, have pointed out, because we are clearly faced with at least the appearance of a conflict of interest. and we know, mr. mimica, that the wife of caesar must not only be honorable, but must also appear so. it is therefore difficult to understand why such favourable conditions were applied to mr farkas in this case, because, as has been said before, it is difficult to believe that saying that he is prohibited from giving advice on one or other matter relating to his previous activity solves the problem, because, as has been said, and the colleagues who have raised it are quite right, it is practically unverifiable. i mean, any one of us sits down at a table and starts giving information from his previous stage, without any possibility of acting against it. i welcome the fact that the commission, with its voice - and not its vote - in that board - in that council, i mean the european banking authority, has called for stricter application of the rule, but it is clear that this has not been enough. the rules must be made stricter and so must their enforcement. it is clear that in this case a mandatory transition of at least 12 months should have been applied to mr farkas.
first vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. when i was born, it would have been a bold dream that we would one day be able to decide our common future in a european parliament with representatives from east and west. the year i was born, the wall was built, which for me, like for many europeans, is closely linked to my personal history. when i was a young soldier, the cold war was so cold that i was trained to fight against those with whom i am now united in a union. the year the wall fell, our son mark was born, and when europe finally became one again with the 2004 enlargement to the east, our son max was born. our children, like a whole generation of young people, have the privilege of knowing europe exclusively as a continent of peace, freedom and unity, and we owe this to the peaceful revolution of 1989. it is for me and for all of us who were lucky enough to witness it the most defining political event of our lives. it is also the victory of european values, because the people's desire for freedom was greater than their fear, their desire for democracy stronger than ideology and their cohesion more powerful than the regimes in east germany and central and eastern europe. it was the civil courage of these people that rewrote the history of our continent, and their civil courage was truly european. the spark of freedom was also kindled in the neighbouring countries: in solidarność in poland, as well as in the pan-european picnic on the hungarian-austrian border and on the baltic way. it is growing together, what belongs together, as willy brandt said, and he meant not only germany, but all of europe. we owe this united europe also to the courageous action of neighbours and partners who opened their doors to a reunited germany in the heart of the continent. it wasn't a given back then. this was a bold move not only for us president george bush and former soviet president mikhail gorbachev, but also, and above all, for france and britain. it meant embedding germany in europe and daring to take on a whole new dimension of europe: a europe that would reunite its two halves, that would unite western, central and eastern europe into a single continent. that is what we have seen over the last 30 years. i remember well that before the fall of the berlin wall i could almost feel and see whether i was in the west or in the east, and that was not just because of the special smell of the trabbies and the gdr cigarettes. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. they share the same interests, the same concerns, the same hopes, the same dreams. there is no longer the old and the new europe in the traditional sense. it's not like the east has joined the west. no, we have grown together to form our europe! one of the greatest achievements after the fall of the iron curtain was, as václav havel aptly described it, that east and west were no longer moral terms, but had become purely geographical terms. the foundations of our europe are democracy, freedom and human rights. the rule of law must prevail in europe. this was, is and remains the main task of the peaceful revolution of 1989. freedom and equal rights for all unity and law and freedom, i would say. it is our responsibility to respect and defend these values. they are the true achievement of europe. only in this way could europe, united in solidarity, become a continental success. our successful single market creates jobs, guarantees access to education and healthcare and creates opportunities for everyone. we must therefore firmly oppose all those who, in the so-called national interest, invoke the past of the east or the west or other past that never existed, in order to play east and west against each other in germany as in europe. there are still challenges to growing together. we are all aware of that. but that doesn't change the fact that the eu is the best thing that could have happened to east and west. we must be clear: whoever plays with europe is playing with the future. and if you really want to act in the interests of your country, you will bet on europe. only together can we exert our weight on the world stage and shape the rules of the game. if we want to continue the mandate of the people of 1989 we must also show european courage, and that means courage for europe. because the challenges of the future - from climate change to the digital revolution - can only be met by our united efforts. in 1971, when he was awarded the nobel prize, willy brandt said that peace is not a state of being, but that it must be made by people over and over again. the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity. for so brandt material need is concrete lack of freedom. it is our common european task to overcome this. it is europe's destiny to work on this. dear wolfgang schäuble, thank you for showing us what we're fighting for. and, mr. meuthen, thank you for showing us what we're fighting against. (applause from the centre)
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, it is a great honour to address this chamber on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall. i do this not only in the capacity of the minister holding the rotating presidency of the council, but above all, i do it as a european citizen. this task makes me very humble because, although i was very young, i very well remember the difficult times when europe was divided. in the middle of europe, germany was split in two and the great city of berlin was divided by the wall. the wall which, for decades, separated family members from one another. the wall which meant the final stop for fundamental rights and freedoms. the wall which ruthlessly ended the lives of many of those trying to get to the other side. all of this happened in the heart of europe. for younger generations, this may now seem somewhat unreal and even very distant, but you do not have to look at european maps further back than the 1980s to understand that it was not so long ago when europe looked very different to how it looks today. however, over time, the will of the people seeking freedom, seeking human rights and seeking prosperity, prevailed. it all became real in berlin. it literally tore down the wall. this was the wind of change that swept across europe and resulted in the collapse of the iron curtain. in europe this paved the way for the deepening of european integration and similarly it paved the way for the enlargement of the european union, of our precious union. meine damen und herren! trotz dieser großen veränderung, die vor 30 jahren durch das mutige und entschlossene handeln der völker auf der damaligen ostseite des eisernen vorhangs erreicht wurde, stehen wir vor herausforderungen in europa. einige der errungenschaften in der europäischen union sind vielleicht zu selbstverständlich. weltweit erleben wir tendenzen, neue mauern zu bauen, anstatt sie einzureißen. wir sehen anzeichen, dass eine regelrechte internationale zusammenarbeit infrage gestellt wird. in solch einer turbulenten und unberechenbaren periode ist es gut, auf die grundlagen zurückzukommen und an die grundlegenden werte zu erinnern, die auch vor 30 jahren zu einer großen veränderung geführt haben. deshalb bin ich stolz darauf, hier im europäischen parlament zu sagen, dass demokratie, rechtsstaatlichkeit und grundrechte immer wieder verteidigt werden müssen, weil sie die eckpfeiler der europäischen union sind. ich möchte ganz deutlich feststellen, dass autoritarismus, totalitarismus oder nationalismus nie unsere antwort sein dürfen. unsere wahl soll immer freiheit sein. unsere wahl soll immer demokratie sein, und unsere wahl sollen immer die menschenrechte sein. herr schäuble, sie haben gesagt, dass wir dieselben werte teilen. das stimmt. aber nicht nur wir, sondern die ganze welt. diese werte sind die werte der ganzen welt, anerkannt von den vereinten nationen. meine damen und herren! „jetzt wächst zusammen, was zusammengehört.“ als die berliner mauer fiel, waren dies die weisen worte des ehemaligen bundeskanzlers der bundesrepublik deutschland, willy brandt, der auch früher der bürgermeister von westberlin war und auf sehr konkrete weise die europäische spaltung gesehen hatte. ich bin der festen überzeugung, dass die botschaft der einheit auch der schlüssel für den erfolg der europäischen union ist. wir können nur gemeinsam stark sein, und wir brauchen ein europa, das vereint, und nicht ein europa, das sich trennt. the fall of the berlin wall holds the promise of a united europe.
thank you, thank you to all our guests, thank you to all of you who spoke and thank you for your cooperation. i thank the president of the bundestag, mr schäuble. and now we're going to put the music back in the air, but i'd like you to stand up. (a quartet from the musica mundi school performs the "hymn to joy")
mr rivière, why do you ask to speak? what is the reason for your request?
i am sorry, but we have already mentioned this very serious fact, we have mentioned it in a solemn way. no, i'm not giving you the floor. the house and all the members and our friends know how much affection we all have shown for the victims of the bataclan and we have done so in a solemn sitting, and i think that shows how attentive parliament and the president are to this matter. i thank you and take it back. * * the final draft agenda, drawn up by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 157, has been distributed. following consultations with the political groups, i would like to put to the house the following proposal for an amendment to the final draft agenda. wednesdaythe council and commission statements on the rights of the child on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child are brought forward as the first item after the adoption of the agenda. are there any objections? this amendment is approved without objection. thursday the objection concerning the placing on the market of products containing t45 rape or produced from genetically modified t45 rape was withdrawn and will therefore be withdrawn from the vote. the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has approved a report by mr garcía del blanco on immunity. in accordance with rule 9 (9) of the rules of procedure, the report will be put to the vote on thursday. wednesdayi received a request from the gue/ngl group that the title of the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in bolivia be changed to 'situation in bolivia after the coup d'état'.
mr president, when the right wing proposed a debate entitled 'the situation in bolivia', the coup d'état that culminated last sunday had not yet been carried out. a coup d'etat promoted by the police and the military has overthrown the elected president morales. we, as democrats, support the sovereign decision of the bolivian people, but there will be honourable members of this parliament who will support the coup d'état carried out by the military and the police. what i think is that we will all agree that there has been a coup d'état and that, in this situation, it is necessary to change the title. therefore, we propose that it be titled "the situation after the coup d'état in bolivia".
mr president, we are against changing the title of the debate on bolivia and we will therefore vote against it.
i have received a request from the ppe group to conclude the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in bolivia by tabling motions for resolutions, which would be put to the vote during the next partsession.
on behalf of the ppe group mr. president, there was no coup. there is no coup d'etat. the only person responsible for the situation in bolivia is evo morales. in 2016, morales lost a referendum to secure his re-election. he skipped the constitution, which did not allow him to run for reelection. he ignored the rule of law in his country. in 2005 he organized elections supervised by the oas, he asked the oas for supervision. on november 10, the oas made public the findings of its audit of the electoral process. he declared that process null and void for fraud. we must call things by their right names to avoid distorting reality. the allegations that only flaws in the electoral system occurred constitute a lack of respect for bolivian society. we are dealing with a planned action with the sole purpose of remaining in power against the sovereign will. the efforts of bolivian society and the international community to call for new and verifiable elections have succeeded. bolivia needs a constitutional way out of its crisis. for that, you need guarantees. it is required, if the conditions are right, that the european union assist and cooperate by sending an election observation mission, as stated by mrs mogherini.
i have received a request from the s&d and gue/ngl groups to include a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in chile as the fourth item after the discussion on the situation in bolivia. i have also received a request from the gue/ngl group to conclude the debate with a resolution to be voted on in the second part-session in november.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i think we’re all concerned about the developments during the last weeks in chile, where not only have we seen, regretfully, loss of life, but we also see peaceful demonstrators on the street and therefore my group would like to propose to, at least, have a debate on this issue today here in plenary.
mr president, the situation in chile is certainly totally different; it is not the same situation as we have just seen in bolivia. what we are finding is a mess that president piñera is trying to organize for constitutional reform. he has offered solutions to the people who are demonstrating, even going so far as to offer a change of the constitution by creating a constituent assembly. i think it is not appropriate, at this moment, to demonstrate without giving support to president piñera, who is working under the chilean constitution.
madam president, the convention on the rights of the child stipulates that when children are separated from their parents, they have the right to maintain regular contact. this is especially important for minors whose parents are in prison on remand or sentenced. according to the organisation fair trials, there are more than 120 000 people in pretrial detention in the european union. the same organisation has denounced the clear abuse of this precautionary measure by several member states. preventive detention should be the last resort for the effects it already has on the people who suffer it. but it also has very serious consequences for a forgotten group: children. children of imprisoned fathers and mothers, estimated at two million children according to the council of europe report. they are the rightful owners and the future of our societies. i therefore call on the european commission to take account of the right of minors in a future legislative proposal on minimum standards for prisons and conditions of detention.
mr president, my country, spain, is the fourth largest steel producer in the european union, but production has fallen by 25% since 2007. we are therefore well aware of the problems facing the sector, which are the result of overcapacity in countries such as china and dumping by turkey, to which have been added trade tensions caused by the protectionist measures imposed by trump, also on aluminium. in my region, galicia, and also in neighbouring asturias, we have lived under the threat of the closure of alcoa's aluminium plants and the dismissal of 700 workers. we cannot stand idly by when we lose industrial activity and employment. parliament has insisted on a european industrial agenda worthy of the name. we reiterate this call for an agenda that makes use of all the arsenal available to it to strengthen the european industrial base; also of taxation, with mechanisms such as border adjustment to be able to compete on a level playing field while we move towards decarbonisation. it's time to get down to business.
mr president, the problem of turkish drilling in the waters of the exclusive economic zone of cyprus is somewhat similar to the turkish military operation. it is a unilateral action, using force and outside the framework of international law, by displaying a supposed right that could be debated, obviously. what is radically unacceptable about the situation is this unilateral action, in which warships have harassed european ships that had formal contracts to do this exploitation. instead of mr erdogan sending a fleet of lawyers to the relevant international court which can decide whether there is a legal issue to settle, ships are sent, which in fact expropriate a right from these companies and from cyprus. the worst way to defend that right. it is strange that turkey should be surprised that there were sanctions in the end. turkey is exhibiting its status as guarantor of the peace process, but what turkey is doing is to undermine the possibility that this conflict will end as it is trying to do, in a negotiated way.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, i think it is clear what the left is trying to do: it is to try to protect a morales who this time, finally has not succeeded in his electoral fraud. he came... in reality, he only had one presidential term legally, constitutionally. then, through all sorts of operations, he has been prolonging his life as president of bolivia as a loyal ally of chávez, first; of maduro, then to launch the cocaine business, money laundering... and in the projection of the são paulo forum, which is responsible for the fact that there is a huge destabilization project going on right now throughout the continent. morales is part of that. the money he collected yesterday, on the plane, in asunción, on his way to mexico, is also proof of that. we are facing a major destabilization operation in latin america and one of the few good news is that morales has finally gotten this fraud wrong. that's why the left is crying, because it needs these for other coups: the one in chile the one they are carrying out or trying or the one in ecuador the one they tried.
in spite of the speeches we have heard this afternoon, what has happened in bolivia has a name: coup d'état. when the military orders the president elected by the people at the ballot box to abdicate his responsibility, that's a coup d'etat. when the opposition, backed by the police and the army, persecutes the leaders and militants of the ruling party, which has just won the elections, that is called a coup d'état. let's not forget that there is no debate about evo morales' victory. the oas, an organization that is not suspected of being bolshevik or bolivarian, has not questioned evo morales' victory; what it has questioned is that he has achieved it by more than ten points of difference. evo morales took the oas recommendations and called for new elections. however, far from reducing the tension and seeking a peaceful solution, the coup will of a racist and classist opposition is confirmed, which is not concerned about fraud, what worries it is that the vote of an indigenous person is worth the same as that of a white person. since the persecutions, the looting of the homes of mas leaders and the repression of indigenous communities have continued, and all this despite the resignation of president evo morales himself and all the high positions of the most important institutions of the country, trying to avoid a bloodbath, we ask this parliament to condemn the coup, call on the european embassies to give refuge to the persecuted and join the request for free elections in which all the candidates who wish to participate can participate and in which the decision of the bolivian people is respected.
madam president, the only person responsible for the situation in bolivia is evo morales. in 2016, morales lost a referendum to secure his third re-election; flouted the constitution, which prevented him from running for re-election; ignored the rule of law; called elections and tried to usurp the government. the oas made public its audit of the electoral process of october 20 and declared it null and void for fraud. to avoid distorting reality, we must call things by their right names. to say that there were only technical flaws in the electoral system is a lack of respect for bolivian society: it was a planned action with the sole purpose of usurping power against the sovereign will. there was no coup. bolivia is seeking a constitutional and peaceful solution to its crisis. it needs guarantees and it needs support for the appointment of interim president, jeanine áñez, who must lead the country to transparent elections. the european union is required to assist and cooperate with the sending of an election observation mission, as mrs mogherini rightly stated last monday.
madam president, as soon as the possible fraud in the recent elections in bolivia became known, we personally urged mrs mogherini to ensure that the entire electoral process was transparent and, above all, impartial. unfortunately, time has proved us right, as has been confirmed in this case by the latest audit of the organization of american states, which shows that evo morales manipulated the elections to ensure a fourth electoral process in his favour. and that is a real coup d'etat. popular pressure and international pressure over this situation have forced the resignation of evo morales. also, his flight from the country, to evade justice, has avoided what was an electoral process, to become a major grievance with a constitutional crisis. that is why, mrs mogherini, we are asking and demanding that you mediate in this situation, that you mediate between the parties so that the violence does not escalate and so that the electoral process is repeated. mrs mogherini, the european union is responsible for ensuring that bolivia does not become a new venezuela.
madam president, the stabilization and democracy of latin america are called into question whenever coups are backed up, as in honduras, or legal wars against leaders, as in the case of lula, for free. evo morales agreed to an oas audit, including a repeat election. but the far right was never concerned with the electoral procedure, but with overthrowing morales at all costs. the military has facilitated a coup d'état, which we strongly condemn. a brutally racist opposition that cruelly attacks indigenous peoples. we are witnessing a military uprising and a persecution against the mas leaders, which has forced them to hide and seek asylum. whatever trump declares, who seems to be yearning for 1973, the european union cannot look the other way. we must guarantee the physical integrity of the leaders and the security of the people of bolivia, condemn the coup, the violence, provide asylums, avoid self-proclamations and ensure that democracy is restored in bolivia. democracy is at stake not only in latin america, but also throughout the world and also in europe.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i have listened carefully to all different interventions. let me say that i see, obviously, some variety of opinion on the analysis of the situation, but overall i also see first of all the strong support for a european union role and presence to accompany the country now. this is exactly what we have been doing, quietly but constantly, in these hours, in these days, and this is why i want to repeat here my thanks to our eu delegation staff on the ground that has done remarkable work in these weeks, in difficult circumstances, and we will continue to do so. i’ve seen also among member states a certain convergence on the fact that we might be ready – we need to be ready – to accompany the process further, and again i think it is important for all of us to call on statesmanship and responsibility and restraint in these moments, because again we are talking about a country that has made a development trajectory of positive change over these years and has all the potential to consolidate democracy and inclusion and social development in the coming years. so they need to know – especially the bolivian people need to know – we are there to accompany and to support this process, and i’m glad to see that the large majority of this chamber is supporting this approach.
in writing. in bolivia there has been a coup d'état which has removed the legitimate president evo morales and which deserves our strongest condemnation. the reactionary and anti-democratic forces of bolivia, with the complicity of the police and military forces, supported by external interference, after disrespecting the results of the elections, carried out a violent terrorist action against the bolivian popular movements, their leaders and state officials, despite the multiple calls for dialogue and initiatives for a political solution led by evo morales. contrary to what some hypocritically claim, the coup d'état now accomplished has nothing to do with a purported defence of democracy, which it violently disrespects, but is part of the ongoing offensive of us imperialism in latin america, with the real aim of defeating the process of sovereign affirmation, economic and social progress and emancipation that has been taking place in bolivia since 2006. we hereby reaffirm our solidarity with the popular, progressive and revolutionary forces of bolivia, with the resistance and struggle of the bolivian workers and people against the violent repression of the coup and in defence of their sovereignty, democracy, economic and social progress, peace and cooperation.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, over the past months, we have seen a sequence of quite dramatic events in chile. the country has been shaken by a wave of protests and violent incidents. the government has declared curfews and a state of emergency. it deployed troops on the streets for the first time since chile returned to democracy 30 years ago. both the curfews and the state of emergency were lifted; protests, mostly peaceful, continued throughout the country. on 25 october, they culminated in the biggest demonstration in chile’s history, with over one million people marching to request profound social and economic changes. the mobilisation continues up to date and it has brought support from across all sectors of society. the toll of the crisis is high. the national institute for human rights, which is an independent state institution, has reported 22 deaths. five of them have been directly attributed to the security forces. two thousand people have been injured, over 5 000 have been detained, almost 300 judicial actions have been presented, including for homicides, sexual violence and cruel treatment. human rights violations have mobilised constant demonstrations calling for justice over the abuses, while in the margins of peaceful protests, serious acts of violence occur. we call once again for a swift investigation of all crimes and human rights violations from all sides. this is an important moment for chile’s democracy, a strong democracy built after decades of dictatorship, a democracy that now needs a new social contract with a stronger focus on the fight against inequalities and on social inclusion. the government has started to respond to protests with a series of important measures – the announcement of a social agenda, a cabinet reshuffle, the launching of a national citizens’ dialogue. chile has announced that it will not host the apec and cop summits, in order to focus on the domestic priorities, and last monday a process leading to a new constitution was launched, addressing a long—standing aspiration of many chileans as the current constitution still dates back to the times of the dictatorship. we also highly appreciate the government’s invitation to the office of the un high commissioner for human rights and to other human rights organisations to send experts. it is essential to keep listening to the requests that are coming from the people of chile and to address them. during these weeks, over 3.5 million chileans have demonstrated peacefully in town hall meetings and local assemblies. they are showing their determination to build a society that is more inclusive and more just. such a vibrant society is the foundation of the functioning of a strong democracy and this request for justice and equality must not, and, i believe, cannot, be overshadowed by the acts of violence committed by a minority in the margins of the demonstrations. in fact, the large majority of the citizens and all political parties have condemned violence as unacceptable from all sides. chile’s human rights institutions are playing a critical role in coordinating with the government, monitoring the rights of chileans and working tirelessly to protect those rights. these institutions have all been shaped by the last 30 years of democracy and they now play a critical role in the protection of that same democracy. it is also important that the economic players and the private sector in its majority have affirmed they are ready to do their part in support of a new inclusive social pact. we have condemned from the very beginning all acts of violence and called for respect for human rights and the due investigation of all violations. our delegation in santiago and the 19 member states’ ambassadors resident in chile have passed exactly the same message, in a coordinated manner, at all levels and all our interlocutors in the government have expressed their absolute, irrevocable and irreversible commitment to respect for human rights in all circumstances. we want to reconfirm our readiness to support the country and its people in this moment of transition. first of all, we have decided to maintain our cooperation programmes that were dedicated to cop25, to support chile in its presidency beyond the summit that will now be held in spain. to address the protesters’ demand for social justice, it is also essential to tackle the impact of climate change and to make the green transition more sustainable. but there is much more. the european union is chile’s third largest trade partner and its first foreign investor. chile is the european union’s oldest partner in latin america and we are now negotiating the modernisation of our association agreements. our countries have solid ties. both europe and chile have experienced the tragedy of dictatorship and the return to freedom. in the darkest moments of chile’s history, we opened our doors to our brothers and sisters fleeing from persecution. i come myself from a country that experienced that, very closely. we are more than just friends, we are family and today we share the chilean people’s aspiration to greater social justice and a more inclusive democracy. these values are at the core of our new association agreements which focus exactly on sustainable development, human rights and climate action. europe is ready to accompany chile in this delicate moment of its history towards a new and a more inclusive social contract. we have full confidence that chile’s democracy is strong enough to address its people’s demands and to use this moment as a step to grow even stronger and more inclusive.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, it is undeniable that the situation in which chile is currently found is one of social crisis. i think it is indecent of us to compare this issue with the situation in bolivia. this is the perception, which is completely out of touch with reality, that we give to the international community when we discuss both these issues at the same time in this parliament. this matter was already discussed at the meeting of the delegation to the joint parliamentary committee, which was attended by the chilean ambassador to give us an account of current events. first, on 18 october, numerous protests, most of them peaceful, began in chile, denouncing social inequalities. along with these demonstrations, a coordinated series of attacks on subway stations and shops, resulting in damage amounting to no less than almost 2 billion dollars, prompted the government to declare a state of emergency for ten days. at the same time, in the face of allegations of excessive use of force by the police, the government expressly asked the united nations high commissioner for human rights to send a mission to chile to investigate this. the government of mr piñera is currently negotiating urgent social measures. the minimum wage was raised a few days earlier. he agreed to cut back on the workday. work is underway to reach agreements on pensions, health and education. in addition, the government is negotiating a possible amendment to the constitution. this is the action of a democratic and responsible government, in the interests of finding a solution to the crisis. this is the behaviour of a country which is a privileged partner of the european union - with which we have an association agreement - and one of the most stable democracies in the region, which we are treating very poorly by comparing it to bolivia in this house. we must accompany the return of peace to chile by maintaining all the support programmes.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, thank you, mrs mogherini, for your presentation. as chairman of the delegation to the eu-chile joint parliamentary committee, i would like to begin by conveying the condolences of all members of this european parliament to the families and loved ones of the victims and those injured by the violence that has occurred in chile and, of course, to convey and express our total disgust with violence, wherever it may come from. i would also like to point out that chile is a reliable and very important partner for the european union; it is a country with which we have deep ties, a great country with a consolidated democracy, committed to human rights and a defender of multilateralism, fair trade and the environment. however, as we all know, since mid-october chile has witnessed an escalation of social protests unprecedented since the democratic transition of the 1990s. a crisis whose causes are, of course, complex - very complex - and which has undoubtedly been managed over decades. chile has achieved an intensive reduction in extreme poverty, but at the same time, an enormous middle class has grown, very precarious and accumulating a growing discontent, which has been fuelled by inequality and by a lower than expected economic growth and which had been the electoral promise of mr piñera. so there is a great deal of frustration among a large part of the population and, moreover, this is accompanied by a loss of confidence, which is not new either, in the institutions, in the constitution and, of course, also, unfortunately, in the political parties. we therefore recognize the frustrations and legitimate demands of millions of peaceful chileans and we demand respect for human rights and that process of renewal, of reforms of a social contract that renews democracy and the hope of the chilean people.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mrs mogherini, everything that happens in latin america, in latin america, affects europe, matters to europe. everything that happens in chile affects and matters to europe and to this parliament. but what we are analysing today in this house is the political situation in chile. a political situation arising from a problem, from a social outbreak, the result of a political context to which europe is no stranger. in europe we also have problems of inequality. we also have problems of growing inequality due to an unfair and inefficient distribution. it is also true that there are demands for solutions to social problems, health problems, education problems, pension problems, fears about the future. and so why are we bringing this debate here? because this house is not a space where the legitimate ideological and political debate that is being held in chile is cloned or replicated. why is he being brought here? i do not know, but there seems to be a strange connivance between the socialists and the eurochavists, who are defenders of human rights and democratic procedures in all those countries which are not governed by the satrapies, of which they are partners and friends. so human rights do matter, so democratic procedures and elections do matter, the cleanliness of elections. but, however, when they are friends, then we care less. we don't even want to argue. chile has problems that europe is no stranger to. we have lived them in our countries. we remember the yellow vests in france and the different movements that have taken place in different european countries. then europe must stand by chile, that is true, because its problems, i repeat, are not alien to us. and perhaps chile is a good scenario where measures can be implemented that can serve to reinforce the trust between citizens and their politicians. but we must not do so in a false paternalistic manner and disrespecting an ally and partner who has been a guarantee of stability in the region and whom some people want to destabilise with spurious debates at a time of instability in the whole area. finally, i believe that the european parliament must send a message of fraternity to stand by chilean society, its rulers and its leaders in order to correct their problems, because their problems, as i said, are also our problems.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. for the first time since the pinochet dictatorship, the military is back on the streets of santiago, and the president seems desperate to start a dialogue because he refuses to really address the real causes of this crisis. it's not just the constitutional issue, it's the issue of extreme social inequality in this country. i have been a member of the delegation to the eu-chile joint parliamentary committee for ten years and have seen this for myself. these differences in society are so severe that 50% of the population owns only 2.1% of the national wealth. that leads to inequality, and that leads to rebellion. the other is that no country has privatized as much as chile has done -- from water to education to pensions to health care. all of this is affecting the poor in this society. chile must also take a different path. the european union has always maintained good trade relations. but maybe we should also take a look at the human rights situation. maybe we should also focus on conflicts like the mapuche, to be taken seriously in a country where this social history is the biggest factor of unrest. we cannot continue as before, negotiating agreements, but europe must play the role of mediator. that is the appeal to you, mrs mogherini.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, despite the repression that the chilean people are suffering, the right wing of this parliament has tried to block us from talking about chile. why would you do that? because chile is the latin american laboratory of neoliberal policies since pinochet; because it is not 30 pesos, but 30 years of savage neoliberalism against which people are rising in the streets. and when the people said "enough is enough", the response was military in the streets and repression typical of the dictatorship, because in chile, the transition to democracy was marked by the impunity of the dictatorship. that's why he's allowing what's happening now. and the european union cannot continue to look the other way. we have to suspend trade agreements with chile until human rights are respected. is it possible to respect human rights with a president who has declared war on his people? the answer is no. a president who declares war on his people deserves only to end up in the dustbin of history. from here, all our support to the people struggling in chile.
madam president, madam high representative, we - who are speaking today about chile, because we are talking about what is happening in the international community as a whole, and this also concerns this parliament - want to send, i think, two humble messages. one, a message of listening. the chilean people, who have been the protagonists of the largest demonstrations in their country's history, have been heard. and secondly, a message of support and accompaniment, of a willingness to help, not only the chilean people, but also the institutions and the political system of the country, which have, as a whole, also sent a message of a willingness to face the situation and to face reforms. reforms how? because it turns out that millions of chileans, over the past few weeks, have demonstrated their will to demand greater social justice, more inclusive economic growth and better access to public services. we also want to remind, to each other, that these demonstrations have not been partisan, ideologized, that people and citizens have asked for transversality when these changes were being demanded; to remind that demands and demonstrations must always be peaceful, and have not always been so in chile; to condemn violence; to regret, unfortunately, the deaths. and we want to remember, finally, that chile is a friend, chile is an ally. it will continue to be, of the people and their institutions. and that inequality today, in europe and the rest of the world, is not just a social threat, it's a threat to the stability of our institutions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for weeks now the government in chile has been violently suppressing protests against president piñera. we have heard of deaths, thousands of wounded, violence, arbitrary arrests, even rape and torture in barracks, systematic mutilation of the eyes, and we have read about this too. we need a full investigation into political and criminal responsibility. the european union cannot continue with its association agreement without investing more in respect for human rights. we need a new constitution to take the country out of the dictatorship period. we need to put an end to the special guarantees granted to the military, some of whom are at the centre of corruption. after these demonstrations and these events, things cannot remain this way. as in other countries, the government, i think, should resign, to open a new phase for a new constitution, for a new social phase, for more justice for the chilean people. i think many of us will continue to stand by him.
madam president, we are talking about chile. i sometimes, when i hear about violence and human rights violations, i think we are talking about cuba, or we are talking about venezuela. they're talking about landfills over there. in the landfills are the garbage that venezuelans eat after these twenty years of 21st century socialism. chile is the most prosperous and most integrated country in south america - the most - which they wanted to bring into communism in the early 1970s and which, however, has been growing for thirty years, creating that middle class of which they have spoken now; a country that really is an example and which, therefore, they want to bring down. what we're talking about is bringing down a government of a president who was elected in 2017 with a ten-point advantage over those who now want to bring him down in the street. in chile no one has died for speaking his mind or for peacefully protesting; in chile there have been brutal clashes with the police, who have been burned alive, against whom attacks of an absolutely unusual violence have been created, which have much to do with the mobilization against democracies that is being generated from cuba and from venezuela. that is what is happening in chile: that real dissatisfaction is being helped by outside interventions and interferences, and they are communist interferences.
madam president, chile has for years been the laboratory for the neoliberal policies imposed by the imf and the world bank and has applied a brutal model that is exhausting the population, which has been forced to protest in the streets because of the virtual disappearance of the most sensitive social cover. and these protests have been met by the piñera government through brutal repressive methods that violate the most elementary rights and that link directly to the darkest memories of the pinochet dictatorship. in the previous point we just touched on the subject of bolivia, and let me say that what is happening in bolivia is not foreign to chile. we could say that there is a general neoliberal response, a new "monroe doctrine" that aims to bring order to the backyard of the united states at a time when there is a resurgence of leftist movements in the southern cone. i wanted to say that, in my view, what is at stake is not only the future of chile but also the future of latin america in the years to come. and the union, mrs mogherini, cannot remain hesitant: it must call for an end to the repression by the piñera government and support the chilean people, who are demanding a constituent assembly and redirecting chile's course towards a more just and inclusive social democracy.
madam president, freedom of the press is a fundamental value of european civilization. unfortunately, it is threatened by two serious dangers. the first is the violence against investigative journalists, such as ms. galizia, who was murdered in malta in 2017 while investigating a corruption case. the second danger is more insidious, but it must also be fought, i am talking about the censorship that anesthetizes the freedom of the press. in italy, for example, the val d'aosta journalists' association suspended a journalist, andrea manfrin, for three months, for the sole offence of criticising the presence of illegal aliens. this suspension is based on a text that prohibits journalists from using the word "clandestine". however, illegal aliens are a reality which it is useless to deny. the honor of journalism is to tell the truth, no matter what the cost.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it must not be forgotten that the international day to end impunity for crimes against journalists has its origins in the commemoration of the murder of two french journalists in mali by al-qaeda. however, impunity continues and there are few effective measures to protect journalists, especially when it comes to political issues, here in the european union, because it seems that there are journalists of one level and journalists of the second level depending on the ideological position they hold. this is not the way to condemn attacks on journalists as a result of violent acts by the far left or by totalitarian and anti-democratic separatist movements, such as those taking place in my country, catalonia, in spain, in my region of catalonia. recently, as we have been told, reporters without borders reported more than 50 attacks on journalists in catalonia by separatists. the federation of journalists' associations of spain also issued a statement in this regard. these are terrorist organizations that storm the streets and attack journalists. and here too the european parliament must be demanding, and it cannot be defended that for ideological reasons there are good and bad people.
madam president, oblivion is also a form of impunity, and that is precisely why, as a basque and a spaniard, i cannot fail to mention the attacks, extortions and murders of journalists perpetrated by the terrorist group eta throughout its criminal career. just after democracy was introduced in spain, a journalist, josé maría portell, was murdered in bilbao. then there was the foiled murder in pamplona of josé javier uranga. years later, in san sebastian, santiago oleaga and, days after, the columnist of the newspaper el mundo josé luis lópez de lacalle. many other journalists were persecuted, injured or mutilated. many newsrooms were raided or attacked. and all the dissenting, threatened and flagged informants. these are public documents in which eta strategists asked the gang to attack journalists and pointed out who had to be killed. well, while this house today condemns the murders of journalists, pays tribute to their memory and expresses the need to protect them, i have to remind you that not a single one of the murders and attacks i have mentioned has been condemned by the political heirs of eta. and yet the political heirs of eta are still represented in this house today. i repeat: oblivion is also a form of cruel impunity for the victims. we must not forget those who lost their lives in the cause of freedom and it is our duty to continue to point out those who, also among us, justified their murder and still do so today.
madam president, i think the appropriate title is the ebola resurgence in central africa, given that it is in the democratic republic of congo, in central africa, that these cases have emerged. as the commissioner said, this is an area with a huge humanitarian challenge, where more than 13 million people need our humanitarian aid; more people have died from violence than from ebola. if our goal is to end this outbreak, we need to take a more holistic approach. the development of the vaccine, supported and financed by the european union, is a major breakthrough. however, we must not divert attention from preventive measures. we need to address the fears and concerns of the community, supporting ourselves - as the commissioner rightly said - in local organisations. this outbreak will only end when communities are engaged in this fight and this is led by a local response, for example, as it relates to safe and dignified burials the burial of the dead. the work must also focus on women, as they are the most affected by ebola, as they are usually the main carers at risk. this new outbreak highlights, once again, that there is no substitute for long-term investment in health. health must remain high on the european union's development agenda, which must support the congolese health sector. in short, a comprehensive approach is needed that goes beyond the disease, that includes joint development work, not just humanitarian aid.
madam president, we want to denounce and recall at this moment the case of josé daniel ferrer, who is the president of unpacu of the patriotic union of cuba, who disappeared first, is being detained and tortured at this moment in the castroist prisons of cuba. we must also say that we are very sorry that this complaint coincides with the trip of the kings, organized by the spanish government of pedro sánchez and under the responsibility of josep borrell, which has taken them to cuba at a time when cuba is torturing ferrer; cuba is participating in the destabilization of ibero-america in various countries, as has been denounced by the organization of american states itself; and cuba is directing, with venezuela, the cocaine trade to launder money for the são paulo forum and to organize this destabilization. it is a scandal and it is very regrettable that this trip has been organized by the spanish government, which has excellent relations with the cuban dictatorship. we are so sorry.
madam president, i would like to draw attention in this minute to the dire situation in which the tables de daimiel national park has found itself, a situation which has been extremely vulnerable for decades. at the moment it is because of the drought, which, although by cycles, is becoming more persistent, and because of the excessive extraction of water from the aquifer. today, of the 3,000 hectares of the tablas de daimiel national park, only 60 are flooded. the future of the tablets depends on the iron will of each and every one of us in each of our responsibilities. europe has to get wet too. we must work to ensure that the habitats and water directives are complied with, and also to promote genuine sustainable development and to curb climate change. but it's not all legislation, ladies and gentlemen, it's also investment. europe has already helped my country to save the tables at a difficult time: after the drought and the fire that took place in 2009. at that time, along with the rains and the water diversions, came the investments. there was an effective policy of land acquisition to expand the protected area and water rights were acquired to curb the water deficit. this investment paid off and the tablets recovered and re-emerged. i would therefore like to take this moment to ask europe to continue to strive for this. it was made possible thanks to the european commission's initiative and once again we need to work together to save the tablets.
mr president, i would like to add to what has already been said on this issue by colleagues from my political group, but also from other groups - gue/ngl, renew and greens/efa - and it has struck me that the spokesman for the people's group - who spoke first - spoke on this issue of 'protecting' the borders, because i think it is a misuse of language to speak of 'protecting' a border when we are talking about processing asylum applications from people who are in a desperate humanitarian situation. in this case, we are talking, in any case, about a 'management' of the border, but not about 'protection' of the border, because no country is being invaded: the borders are protected in case of military aggression. and unfortunately, this language, which is prevalent even among members of the people's group in this house, also has its origin in the language that sometimes comes from the council and the commission. commissioner, when you speak of 'excessive migratory pressure', you are using military language; or when the council speaks of 'burden-sharing', it is also speaking in negative terms of human beings. please change the language and we will end the speeches of fear and hate.
madam president, no, i had not noticed. well, as regards what the member who has just taken the floor before me said, and in addition to agreeing with everything that has been said by the progressive members in this house, and also what commissioner avramopoulos said about the need for the greek government and the greek authorities to be up to the task, it is clear that, in addition, greece - like italy, which spain represents - is part of the external border of the european union and schengen. the responsibility is therefore shared by all, by the european union as a whole and, in particular, by the council. mrs tuppurainen, mrs von der veld has said before that there is a majority in the council to approve the dublin package. can you answer clearly? is that so? is that true? - yes. is there a majority? and if there is a majority, why not adopt the dublin package? the situation in moria is untenable. the council also has the power to adopt a decision on an urgent basis, as it did in 2016.
madam president, news of the gravity of the situation we find ourselves in is piling up. the world meteorological organization is warning us again today, as it records a new record for greenhouse gas emissions. we are already suffering the consequences of climate change. that is why citizens will not tolerate another empty debate on the climate emergency if we do not adopt measures, proposals and actions. at the next cop in madrid, parliament will defend a position consistent with the paris agreement. a cop which - let us remember - is prior to the first review of the national contributions, which are currently insufficient. so much so, that they lead us to a rise in temperature, with catastrophic consequences. unfortunately, we in europe have not done our homework either, and because of the lack of agreement among the member states, the european union is approaching this cop with an insufficient 2030 emissions reduction target, still not updated and without reaching consensus on the 2050 climate neutrality target. if europeans want to lead the green transition, we must move from words to deeds, passing a climate law and the green new deal, ensuring a just green transition. we must put policies in place so that in this transition, no one is left behind. there are regions, sectors and citizens who will need more support to realise the benefits associated with this transition. this is our duty: to guarantee their future.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work over these years and also to thank spain for hosting and allowing this important meeting of cop 25 to take place on the scheduled date in madrid. cop 25 should set a new level of ambition both to advance the paris agreements and for the signatory states to address in the national plans to be presented in 2020 a greater commitment from all sectors, economic, industrial and productive. we are facing an unprecedented climate and ecological emergency. that is why we need greater european leadership at cop 25 in madrid and at the next cop 15. greater leadership to reduce our emissions and to restore the planet's ecological limits. making europe the world's first emissions-neutral economy by 2050 is a commitment that all member states must support. scientists tell us there's still time, but the reality is that there's less and less time.
mr president, climate change is a very serious challenge and we must take this challenge very seriously. populist speeches, in my opinion, do not bring any kind of solution. i think we have to take this very seriously, we have to take very strong and urgent action, but these actions have to be based on impact studies, both in terms of the effect on the climate, but also the effect on jobs and european competitiveness, european industry. i think we must at the same time make all the necessary efforts to make these efforts global, and not just in the european union, because otherwise the effect will not be what we want and at the same time we will lose a lot of competitiveness, so everything based on impact studies, based on scientific research and effects in all fields.
mr president, my first words are of recognition, and heartfelt remembrance, for our friend and colleague paco gambús, who was a deputy in the last legislature and now was an adviser to our delegation and who passed away this friday at the age of 45. paco, from heaven you will continue to give us your strength to continue defending this great project that is europe. thank you, paco. the eu has led the previous conferences with our commissioner arias cañete. i would like to congratulate him on his great work, on his rationality and his ability to negotiate, because they were necessary for the paris agreement, to protect our planet, but also to maintain competitiveness and economic development in europe. we need to move forward, of course, with more ambitious goals, of course. but first we must strengthen consensus, compliance with paris and coordination between parliament, the council and the commission, because that is how we combine the fight against climate change, the economy and competitiveness. but we also need to invest efforts in those countries that are big emitters, and they need to be ambitious. because only together can we save the planet, because climate and health know no borders, and in madrid we have a great opportunity.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that the planet is giving us a historical lesson as a species. we have been subjecting it to torture since the 19th century and the planet can no longer do that. he stood up. and he's told us that we either change or we disappear. we have a chance. we have it if we change and adapt and make progress towards a carbon-neutral economy. that is the debate we are going to have at the madrid summit. let's take this opportunity. and please, let us stop with the sterile debates we are having between different groups: which is gravity, which is emergency. decisions have to be made. with a lot of determination. decisions are immediate, ambitious, concrete. and look, if we're going to change the model - we're going to - it has to be from justice. and justice involves environmental taxation, not just income taxation, but pollution taxation. it means a global fund for just transition. it means - as one of my colleagues has just said - that we must get back the $100 billion in financing for developing countries and that they can make reforms. it means supply chains free of deforestation in europe. ladies and gentlemen, we can take this opportunity, because it's too late. the planet in historical terms is telling us that it can no longer support us as a dominant species with a carbon-based economy. we either change and adapt or we just disappear. we choose. (the speaker refuses to be asked a question by mr rowland under the 'blue card' procedure.)
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr. president, sara was killed today, she was 26. in spain, since we started counting, we have more than a thousand women murdered by the people they loved, slept with and shared their lives with, and we are no exception in europe. however, there are increasingly negative forces around the world which deny male violence, incite hatred on the grounds of gender and have declared war on women. the istanbul convention is pending ratification in the european union and in several countries, and those that have ratified it do not fully apply it, because of the extreme right. the states do not even bother to collect reliable data. the information we have on femicide, female genital mutilation, trafficking and sexual exploitation is incomplete or partial. we need the european union to ratify the istanbul convention and incorporate it into its legislation, and all the member states to ratify it as well. we need a directive that recognises all forms of gender-based violence and includes measures to prevent, protect and compensate survivors; we need to harmonise the types of crime so that things are called by their name, appropriate penalties are applied and women are heard: 'it is not abuse, it is rape!' 'sister, i believe you!' women are not completely safe in the european union. today her name is sara and she's spanish. tomorrow it could be any one of us.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the poultry sector in europe is one of the most systematically harmed by trade agreements. mercosur is an example of the mistreatment of this sector. the amendment of the trade agreement with ukraine was therefore urgent and necessary. since the russian ban on ukrainian products, this country has concentrated its exports of meat, poultry, to the european union, including new cuts that were introduced into the european union as what they were not. i hope that this agreement will give greater security to the operators in this sector, and i hope that the european union will be able to have the same flexibility to modify the concessions to mercosur in this sector.
madam president, the south of portugal, particularly the alentejo and algarve regions, is experiencing extreme drought. a few days ago the mayor of monchique, an algarve municipality, defended in brussels a european contingency plan to help deal with this situation. this plan could include water efficiency programmes, the construction of dams or the installation of desalination plants. conscious that water scarcity is a scourge for many regions of europe, i subscribe to and reinforce this call for action. it is urgent that the european union should define and implement measures to deal more rapidly with these and other phenomena. the fight against climate change is not just about taking preventive measures, however crucial they may be. it is equally essential to respond to the effects we are already facing in our day.
dear madam chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this year on the 27th marks the 100th anniversary of the infamous nioi stage. this is the peace treaty that ended world war i for bulgaria. he is a disgrace and should make all the descendants of clemenceau, the other western european prime ministers, ashamed. this treaty divides relatives, divides families, divides houses, divides manors, divides even graves. if you haven't seen what a divided grave is, come to the village of petachenci, come to the village of stresimirovci, come and be ashamed. because the nieuws dictate is a disgrace. it's a shame for those who claimed to be for self-determination, but allowed their allies-bandits from belgrade to occupy legitimate bulgarian lands, to divide territories. this is a disgrace. a disgrace to be remembered. on this date, the 27th, the day of the bulgarian victory, by the way, we say: "down with the noy", we say: "the western outskirts must return to bulgaria", we say: "long live the united and indivisible bulgarian homeland".
madam president, i would like to devote one minute to an issue which has long been at the heart of our concerns, particularly in the czech republic, namely the issue of conflict of interest. this conflict of interest and adjustment obviously has a universal impact, there has to be a system to prevent it. i also have to admit that this adjustment affects more people in the european union. but i would like to focus on the impact on the czech prime minister, and i'm glad that commissioner jourová is here. i am particularly concerned about the publication of the final report, which should be presented by the european commission. i understand that the draft report has not been made public by the european commission, as a matter of principle. but i think that the publication of the final report is absolutely in the public interest and i would be very pleased if the commissioner, who has transparency in her portfolio, would also address this issue. i would also like to point out that the opinion of the european ombudsman, ms o'reilly, with whom i had the opportunity to speak, was also clearly in favour of publication. so i firmly believe that the new european commission will also respect the right to information of european citizens.
madam president, i wanted to highlight an issue that is starting to happen in the european union, and that is that more and more people in the european union are spending hours every day playing online games. in the case of spain, approximately 1.5 million people a day play games virtually and we are seeing that the profile of the person who plays is not only that of the male from 25 to 45 years, but that more and more young people and more women are immersed in this type of online games. the european commission must therefore also put online gambling issues at the centre of its digital policy agenda, because it must be remembered that online gambling is not currently part of the digital single market. therefore, the european commission has to start assessing, firstly, the recommendations it made to the member states on online gambling in 2014 and, secondly, it is important that the european union regulates online gambling, because it is a scourge that is reaching society and every day we see more young people in our continent being affected by this serious problem.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i rise to speak on behalf of the epp delegation to the european parliament. the occasion is sad - the election of the extreme nationalist valeri simeonov as the deputy speaker of the bulgarian parliament. and if you're still wondering who i'm talking about, let me remind you. this is the guy who was pushing elderly women across the border into turkey, who were either coming to vote or just to see their relatives. his motive was one - they were ethnically different. he called roma mothers "bitches". he called mothers of handicapped children "crazy women with sick children". in any other european country, this cynic would have been in the history of politics long ago. but in bulgaria, it's rewarding and empowering. it is even more sad that this is happening with the support of the bulgarian parties, members of the epp and pes. i also have questions for the european commission. mrs jovroova, how will the commission ensure that the principles of tolerance and human dignity of all european citizens, as laid down in article 2 of the treaty on european union, are respected? we're gonna ask these questions and we're gonna find our own answers.
i would like to draw your attention to a very concrete, and not the first, but the most serious, aberration in the european union's migration policy. member state belgium in particular is currently being flooded with asylum applications from el salvador indeed. the fact is that salvadorans are allowed visa-free entry into the schengen area. the european parliament has been asked to vote on a draft resolution which i tabled with the aim of immediately removing el salvador, but also guatemala and venezuela from the list of countries exempt from the visa requirement.
(start of the speech off the microphone) ... it is impossible to explain the recent court ruling condemning the biggest political corruption plot in the history of spain and the european union, and i am referring to the employment regulation files in andalusia carried out by the spanish socialist party, which ruled this region of my nation for almost forty years. six hundred and eighty million euros, which were to be allocated to people who had unfortunately lost their jobs, were fraudulently used to buy votes and enrich a number of people and companies linked to the spanish socialist party. the sentence gives their names and surnames and, among those convicted, there are two national-level presidents of the spanish socialist party, who were also presidents of the junta de andalucía. for the sake of our democracy and out of respect for our institutions, i ask you to help us isolate the most corrupt party in the entire european union. all those who look the other way are contributing to the weariness of a society that feels cheated and deceived by corruption, lies and hypocrisy. unfortunately, this will not be the first or last sentence. there will be other problems which will also affect the socialist party and the management of european funds for training. and here we will be to continue to denounce it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we shall actually be voting on the outcome of the negotiations with the council on next year's budget. and if the vote is in favour, this will mean a further increase in the level of commitments of eur 169 billion - 1.5% more than this year. it is true that there are positive aspects such as the cosme programme, which facilitates access to finance for small and mediumsized enterprises, which are at the heart of the member states' economies. however, it must also be made clear that the union budget cannot grow exponentially and that we cannot continue to increase spending unless we do so effectively, efficiently and consistently. the european expenditure must be mainly concentrated on those items which provide european added value, without overlapping with the powers and expenditure of the member states themselves. that would make it possible to reduce the contributions of the member states, which are ultimately the contributions of our citizens. other items attract a lot of attention, for example, in the european neighbourhood instrument, the items to countries such as algeria, which do not cooperate with member states such as spain in the application of the return directive or in the control of irregular immigration, are increased by eur 25 million, while, on the other hand, aid to turkey is reduced - for reasons that we all know - which, however, does cooperate with the union in controlling the migratory flows of this illegal, invasive and uncontrolled immigration.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate commissioners oettinger, monica holmire, ayder gardiasabal and josé manuel fernández on the efforts they have made over the last month to have a budget. the fact that we approved it just an hour before the deadline shows how hard it was. for me, this was the fifth time i've been involved in negotiations, and i have to say it was one of the hardest. i'm happy that erasmus has more funds. but he did say a lot about the environment. many colleagues on the left have spoken about the environment, including liberals. i want to remind you that ecology is about the balance between humans and nature, not just nature. it was therefore important that we covered enough the priorities related to very traditional policies - agriculture, infrastructure, students, young people, and of course innovation and the environment. but it was very important that such a balance was achieved. of course, there are compromises that have been made. i myself would like to see more in certain sectors, especially those related to science, especially those related to young people and erasmus, but budgets come and go. what remains are people, cities and regions. that is why it was important to me that regional development should be a priority for another year, and that is why i would like to congratulate all those who took part in these negotiations on the fact that we have reached a good budget.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this parliament has always worked to ensure that the 2020 budget represents an ambitious starting point for the negotiations that await us on the future multiannual financial framework. today, thanks to the efforts of our entire negotiating team, to whom i am grateful, we can say that we have achieved this objective, effectively responding to the demands of a europe closer to the needs of our citizens. a response based on concrete results, such as increased funding for the fight against climate change and for culture, the strengthening of the erasmus programme for thousands of students and support for small and medium-sized enterprises, and the strengthening of neighbourhood policies in the mediterranean basin, which is becoming too often the scene of tragedies due to the migration crisis. but we do not want to stop here, commissioner oettinger. we will therefore continue to work to find solutions that also address the difficulties of one sector, the agri-food sector, which has been a victim of the trump administration's decisions to impose punitive tariffs on our products. we have made important progress, as required by our statements at the end of the conciliation procedure. we now expect concrete support in the coming months for european agri-food production affected by this trade retaliation.
mr körner, you have a question from mr patten. the speaker refuses a 'blue card' question from mathew patten.
mr president, we all know the importance of a sound budgetary procedure and of course what budgetary control is. this morning we voted to renew the european court of auditors and its president, the popular german klaus lehne. the court is the european body responsible for checking that european union funds are being received and used correctly. in spain we have recently heard the judgment in the ere case, the acronym for employment regulation files. a sentence that confirms an immense theft in spain, with prison sentences and disqualification for members of the socialist party, a party that was governing the region of andalusia for more than forty years, specifically from 1978 to 2019. and a judgment that shows that the socialist government diverted six hundred and eighty million euros from spanish and european pockets and that were intended to promote employment and social inclusion of unemployed people. for all these reasons, and since there are still decisions to be made, also with regard to the training funds, i ask the ect - and i hope that all the members of this parliament will join this request - to carry out an audit of all the european funds that have been allocated to the spanish region of andalusia, whose socialist management during the last forty years has been proven to be a huge theft, a use and abuse of the money of the citizens, of the european citizens.
madam president, i would like to make three points. firstly, i think that this budget - which has been coated with a difficult compromise by my colleague and all the other negotiators - is a good budget, i am very pleased with it, and i think we have to thank the negotiating teams; it reflects the priorities of our citizens, what they have asked us to do, which is to refocus the budget on fighting climate change through innovation and supporting young people in a number of important ways. secondly, i would like to say that the budget is not enough for our ambitions, however; that we must be aware that the european union needs more resources to solve the problems of its citizens. and thirdly, i would like to say that we are already beginning the process of negotiating the multiannual financial framework. in this financial framework we must all be aware that the objective is not so much to achieve the priorities of each country separately, but to solve the problems of the citizens. and to solve these problems, the european union needs to have the vision and the resources. when we act together, we solve those problems much better.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, venice is in mourning, a heritage of the whole of humanity. the european union is committed to the promotion of cultural diversity and the promotion of sustainable development. liguria and piedmont are suffering, plagued by the bad weather of these days, like the coasts swept by violent tides. all this, as well as similar phenomena which have occurred over the years in many member states, leads us to say that europe cannot be satisfied with reacting after tragedies with a few small appropriations. there is much talk of a green new deal, but in our view the real turning point is to invest first, to join the solidarity fund, which we have always been able to mobilise, with a european fund for the prevention of hydrogeological disruption, seismic risk and coastal erosion, by deducting from the calculation of the debt the expenditure on investments to secure infrastructure and reconstruct our territories, to protect not only the heritage of architectural, cultural and natural beauty, but also to protect the presence of man and his activities in these unique, but fragile, territories. now is the time to act.
madam president, according to a study published in the lancet, by the end of the century, climate disasters could cause up to 150,000 deaths a year in europe. the extreme weather events will affect mainly the countries of the south of the continent, and we know that they will be more extreme and severe. in the basque country and navarre we are also suffering the consequences. last july, tafalla suffered floods caused by unprecedented torrential rains. the union should ensure more ambitious measures and policies for the prevention and mitigation of the consequences of these natural disasters, because the union's solidarity funds are insufficient to deal with these increasingly local and specific disasters, as in tafalla, since, despite the irreparable damage caused, they do not reach the 1,5% of the regional gross domestic product necessary to be able to count on such aid. the european union should reconsider the use of its funds, making sure they help build a fair and green society. and on thursday this parliament has the opportunity to declare a climate and environmental emergency so that it can allocate more funds to mitigating the impacts of climate change and taking measures to adapt to the new situation.
madam president, i would like to begin by expressing my condolences and solidarity with the families of the victims of the earthquake in albania and the french soldiers who died in a combat accident in mali. i send you my sympathy and condolences. since i have been here in this parliament - of which i am a new member, having joined in july - there has not been a plenary session in which there has not been a debate on the environment in which the words 'catastrophe' and 'extreme' have not appeared, and in which we have not conveyed to the citizens a message of alarm and catastrophism which, frankly, i think is very exaggerated. we are of course sorry to see the images of venice flooded, and of course we are concerned about how to protect cities which, because of the effects of environmental catastrophes, see their heritage endangered. but we cannot allow that in the european parliament, whenever the environment is discussed, whenever there is a debate on the environment, this debate revolves around the left and is monopolized by the left, which wants to argue that there is and is a catastrophic situation. we must get this alarmism out of parliament which is, frankly, overblown and i think we must focus on what is important, which is to give real solutions to the citizens, real solutions for the historical heritage in europe, and real solutions to avoid and prevent future natural circumstances from occurring, as they have always occurred.
blue-card answer. – there’s a lot of denial going on in this place. ms kempa, first of all, your question. this is a debate. if you read the title there: ‘public discrimination and hate speech against lgbti people, including lgbti-free zones’. you might have used the opportunity to speak in this debate to condemn the fact that many authorities in poland are saying they are lgbti-free zones, instead of some nauseating rant about the virgin mary and the use of the rainbow flag. but that’s your choice. you use your time in this chamber as you see fit. however, don’t tell me that you weren’t insinuating that somehow the lgbt+ community is not an adversary of the polish people. that is entirely what you insinuated in your remarks. mr krah, are you seriously suggesting to me that communism didn’t persecute lgbti people? are you seriously suggesting to me that the soviet union, for example, did not have a systematic programme of exterminating gay men? are you seriously suggesting that what we see today in chechnya is not a legacy of what happened? i would think that the people who have their very identity as having fought communism – as they so proudly say in debate after debate, after debate – would be aware of the history of their own continent and not try and twist and have this disgusting, ironic attack on gay people as somehow being a symptom of the rebirth of communism. it is appalling and it erases history and you should be ashamed of yourself.
madam president, i honestly did not think we would have to talk about this in the european parliament in 2019. we have had a charter of fundamental rights since 2000. and in the charter of fundamental rights, human dignity and sexual orientation are enshrined in a free way. and there's a rhetoric and there's a bias in some of the things that we've heard here today. none of us are against poland, but it is not individuals who are encouraging indecent rhetoric from the point of view that those who have a sexual orientation that is not the conventional or majority one in poland have to live in secret, or cannot provoke, or cannot demonstrate. like it or not, they have the right to free expression and free sexual orientation. and whoever doesn't understand this doesn't understand that sexual freedom shouldn't be a secret. kaczyński, who is one of the people who have formulated these spaces without lgbt ideology, is against ideological pluralism, freedom of conscience. this is what is at stake in the european union at the moment. and this is what we have to understand. we have to look, deep inside, what is happening with freedom of conscience to understand that, indeed, there are people who are speaking out and are lgbt. well, then it manifests.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the far left is again bringing to the table a debate on which we all agree in essence, namely that we are against violence against anyone. but, by exploiting this rational consensus, they will want to put us through the ring of their own prejudices and resentments. the left says nothing about anti-semitism and anti-catholicism, or about the hatred they distil in their own speeches in this parliament towards those who do not think as they do. just yesterday, in spain, a newspaper that you will know as el país, which has become an instrument of propaganda, carried an article that said "heterosexuality is dangerous" and its author demanded that women take up arms to confront men. that's hate speech, too. why is it that you have only one hate that interests you and other hates that don't? does the left have anything to say about it? does the left have anything to say about the general criminalization of men in europe? look, i'm all for fighting hate speech. but all of them, not just the ones you're going to impose on us. the left cannot tell us europeans what we should think or how we should live.
madam president, i am sorry to insist and point out, but the polish government is an inexhaustible source of misogyny and homophobia in the european union. there are areas free of lgbti ideology because it is considered alien to polish culture and the natural order which, apparently, should be the same thing. it's been said by government officials and it's blushing their pride. you in europe do not represent civilization but barbarism. they remember the worst that this continent has ever experienced: the holocaust and the genocide of the jews, when sexual minorities were persecuted. they remind us of the concentration camps for homosexuals in chechnya. they recall the new zealand attacks which vindicated the white man's homeland against invaders, the charleston church massacre in the united states which fuelled a race war, the oklahoma bombing, the oslo bombing and the norwegian island of utoya. you want a europe free of feminists, gays, islamists, racialized people, migrants, leftists. you want a europe in your own image and likeness, as if you were god's own representatives on earth. but god is not with you. you cannot christianise europe, even if this is your crusade, because you are as far from christian values as you are from european values. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members very much for this important debate. answering the question on lithuania: the commission is aware of a draft law on equal treatment currently pending in the lithuanian parliament and related amendments which fail to extend a list of grounds for prohibited discrimination, not including gender identity as such, which might result in transgender individuals having no legal mechanism effectively securing them against possible discrimination in a variety of spheres, such as education or work. we cannot comment on draft laws, but we are looking at this very closely, and we will act if there is eu competence to act. the commission has, during the last year, support different actions and initiatives in several member countries to improve tolerance and social acceptance of lgbti persons. there was a conference some weeks ago with the commission and the finnish presidency to take stock of what has been done and what can be done further as well. exactly what will be done will, of course, be for the next commission to define in this regard. as you know, in the area of employment, there is a directive prohibiting discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation and the commission proposed more than ten years ago to expand that scope, also covering other grounds for discrimination based on sexual orientation in education, social security, social protection and access to and supply of goods and services. you know very well that negotiations have been going on for a very long time in council, but the required unanimity has not yet been forthcoming. this is not an ideological discussion. it is about the rights of lgbti people and the obligation of poland to respect and to protect them. as i said in my introduction, the commission strongly condemns the developments in poland when it comes to hate speech, declarations of so-called ‘lgbti-free zones’ and the attacks against lgbti people, especially under the election campaign. we will very soon – in a couple of days in fact – celebrate the tenth anniversary of the charter of fundamental rights. i think it is very important to defend the fundamental values of the eu and, unfortunately, even 10 years after, we are standing here today. all member states have signed up to these values and have signed up to respect them. it is a fundamental value to love whom you want and to be respected for that, and to be who you want. discrimination, intolerance and violence based on sexual orientation or gender identity are against these fundamental values. i can assure you that in the future, the commission and my friend and colleague commissioner jourová – who has been very engaged in these questions and who will be incoming vice—president responsible for the rule of law – will continue to engage and fight for lgbti rights in poland and elsewhere. i count on your support in that struggle. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in december. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. the disturbing homophobic campaign launched by politicians in the recent elections in poland has fostered a dangerous and intolerable climate of growing intimidation and hatred towards the lgbti community. the actions and proclamations of several regional and local authorities who have declared their territories "lgbti-free", calling them a threat to the nation, represent a serious attack on individual freedom and the fundamental rights of every human being. any form of discrimination, marginalization, intolerance or violence based on sexual orientation is contrary to the values on which the european union is founded. discriminatory, violent and hateful attitudes cannot be justified in any way and the european institutions have a duty to take all necessary measures to ensure respect for the rule of law and human dignity.
the next item is the commission statement on measures to address the impact of the wto decision on the airbus dispute on european agriculture (2019/2895 ((rsp)). i would remind you that requests for speaking time on request and for blue card questions can be made either using the established registration system or the electronic system. you can also pick up the instructions at the entrance to the courtroom.
member of the commission. – madam president: another important subject, of a slightly different kind. honourable members: thank you for this opportunity to contribute to the debate ahead of the vote on a resolution later this week. i am, of course, very concerned about the recent imposition of tariffs by the us on a range of our agri-food exports. i know from direct contacts that you are too. this imposition by the us on tariffs on food and drink is a regrettable development. although the us have formally the legal right to impose these tariffs for a long, long time the commission has been engaging with the us to ask them to freeze or to suspend this in order to find a negotiated solution to the boeing-airbus dispute. we made a credible offer in july for a negotiated settlement. as you know, this is a case that has been going on for many, many years. unfortunately, this opportunity has not been taken up by the us yet. we believe that it’s time to turn the page on this dispute and focus on de-escalating tensions rather than adding further uncertainty to a delicate world-trade and economic situation. i hope that goodwill will still prevail. we are committed to finding a solution which will keep trade flowing and for workers on both sides of the atlantic to be able to keep their jobs. this has been the aim during my mandate and i’m convinced that phil hogan will continue these efforts. he will go to washington in early new year and continue to engage with members of the us administration. the four eu member states where airbus manufacturing is concentrated – the uk, france, germany and spain, together with italy and ireland – account for 95% of the total food exports of the eur 3.5 billion exposed to the tariffs. the target products, in order of magnitude, range from wines, spirit, liqueurs, dairy products and olive oils. these products are highly valued by us consumers, and we hope that the demand from them will help resist price pressures. addressing directly the calls made in your draft resolution: there are measures available under the cap that could be used to mitigate the impact of sanctions in the market. we are reviewing the appropriateness of direct intervention at this stage, because you have to take into account a number of considerations. for instance, we need to clearly distinguish between difficulties that are directly related to the us tariffs and those which are related to other issues. for instance, we recently introduced private storage aid for virgin olive oils in the eu, open for all olive oil-producing member states. the us tariffs have certainly aggravated a very serious situation, but the underlying reasons for the introduction of these measures are not directly related to the airbus case. we also need to take account of a wider development of the wto in relation to the us measures, including the possibilities that the boeing case will present later next year. but our first preference remains a negotiated settlement because we would thereby avoid a damaging trade dispute, and we would also provide a powerful signal to the world market that we want to keep world trade flowing. when it comes to the specific measures that we could take, promotion policies are often a very appropriate response to tariff sanctions, offering operators the possibility to consolidate the market or to retain their position on existing markets, or even to seek new opportunities, and you mentioned this in your resolution. the recently adopted 2020 annual work programme emphasises promotion campaigns in third markets by allocating almost two thirds of the available funding to them – that is eur 180 million. in response to the concerns expressed by some of you here in relation to the us tariff impact on wine: commissioner hogan last week confirmed that he is providing greater flexibility in the implementation and management of promotion operations. this seems to be an appropriate response to market disturbances which are likely to affect the wine sector. this flexibility includes a proposal to increase the union’s financing rate for promotion to 60%, instead of 50% today, which will alleviate the financial burden on producers. the commission has reacted rapidly to the urgency and seriousness of the situation and we hope that we can count on your support to ensure a smooth and swift adoption of the required regulation so that this flexibility can be applied quickly, to the benefit of our producers. other than our promotion policy, the cap toolbox also includes certain market management instruments such as private storage. the commission is aware that additional measures might have to be considered following the conclusions of the analysis that we’re right now doing on the situation of the agriculture markets. we do this with the sectors and with the member states concerned. and where the analysis suggests we should, we are ready to activate exceptional market measures including private storages. in the meantime, i want to assure you that in this commission and the incoming commission, myself and my friend and colleague phil hogan will do our best to find a negotiated, balanced, sustainable and compatible solution with the wto rules, and one that would put an end to the damage suffered by european farmers, including our wine producers.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, the situation of many exporting agri-food sectors is unsustainable after the imposition of mr trump's tariffs; sectors that are emblematic both in spain and in europe; sectors such as wine, olive oil, table olives, spirits; but also citrus and dairy products are suffering. and this is not my opinion, it is the opinion of the sectors themselves, those who know their products best, those who know their sales best and, at the same time, the impact they are suffering from the imposition of these tariffs. they are already starting to lose their sales, their contracts, and they anticipate the loss of thousands of jobs, especially in rural areas where there are few job alternatives. they see with frustration how they are throwing away so many years and so many decades of effort to have that leadership that they had achieved in the american market. but today i want to bring their voice to parliament and convey to the commission the main message they have given us: commissioner, they do not want aid or short-term solutions. they simply want the tariffs to go away. they want to be allowed to remain competitive. and they want to stop paying for the broken dishes for all the trade deals and disputes that occur. it would be unforgivable for us to allow farmers to be punished for a problem in another sector with which they have absolutely nothing to do. today, the people's party stands with the millions of farmers and producers who are affected, as it has always done. and i want to sincerely regret that certain political groups this afternoon have left the negotiating table, boycotting the effort that other political groups have made to put an end to this unjust situation. i am convinced that there will be many groups who will support this resolution next thursday, and i am sure that the commission will... (the president withdrew the floor to the speaker)
on behalf of the id group. madam president, the wto has condemned the european union for the illegal aid it has given to airbus. the united states derived from this condemnation the right to tax european products. unfortunately, they have chosen to tax french wine at 25% and our dairy products at a lower rate. i learned two things from this case. firstly, the european union is incapable of defending our interests in trade. it made a grave mistake by breaking the wto rules, which it had accepted. once again, it is french farmers who will have to pay for its incompetence, even though they bear no responsibility for the wto's condemnation. secondly, the commission in brussels is a bad negotiator. it had at least one argument to persuade donald trump to waive these sanctions, namely that it should have made its decision to import 35,000 tonnes of us beef per year contingent on a goodwill gesture from the us, but the commission let it all go without any reciprocation. this is an extraordinary waste and the european union will have to answer for its incompetence to french public opinion.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president commissioner malmström, i have heard you on a number of occasions say that there was very little room for manoeuvre in the european union and that there was very little that could be done against american tariffs. i am glad to know that, after the popular outcry and after a few weeks, we have realised that the agricultural sector in the countries affected by these taxes and tariffs does not need only words of solidarity but urgent and very concrete measures to compensate for the problem that is arising from these tariffs. the situation is critical and it is not just about promotion, but we are asking the european commission to really support a plan, a strategic plan, a very intensive plan and an urgent plan and to go beyond the cap measures in order to compensate for this imbalance. in the case of my country, spain, as my colleague mr zoido has already pointed out, the agricultural products which are going to be hit by these tariffs - wine, oil, citrus, rice - are really an important export in the united states, because it is the first country to which we export. and just a figure: in 2018, my country's exports of these agricultural products exceeded two billion euros. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the crisis. and that, mrs malmström, does not seem fair to me. thank you very much for the support you can give us and for the support mr hogan can give us in his next job.
madam president, madam commissioner, last october we had the opportunity to discuss in this parliament the unfair situation in our agricultural sector, caused by an airline dispute paid for by our farmers. a month ago we asked the commission to take concrete and urgent measures to prevent the enormous damage being done to the agricultural sector by this unfair situation. a month has passed and what has the commission done? what he has done, he has done too late, too badly and in an insufficient way. and today we hear - and i'm sorry to say it like this - that we have to move on. but you know what? that farmers can't move on. that the hundreds and thousands of farmers affected by this situation cannot move on and will lose their market. and my country, spain, in particular, will suffer a terrible impact of over a billion euros in its exports to the united states, with some products being driven off the market and others never being able to return to competitive conditions. what is the commission doing about this? patches, not enough patches. this parliament has proposed this resolution. at least he's offering something. what's the matter? the commission does not take everything as seriously. perhaps there are first and second class sectors and there are first and second class citizens, because it turns out that when we talk about steel and aluminium, the commission does have solutions, in this case (unheard words). finally, the problem is not only what trump has done, but what this commission has not done: defend its farmers, defend the citizens of europe.
madam president, i would like to stress this call for unity in this parliament so that we can defend the interests of european agri-food producers as a bloc. the motion for a resolution which has been agreed is certainly good news, because this is not a problem of a few but a problem of all. spain, france, germany, italy, the united kingdom and ireland account for 97% of the exports concerned, but the other member states will also be affected directly or indirectly. and that is why the european commission must remain active. it is very important that the compensatory measures in the motion for a resolution be activated, both through a strong cap without cuts and also through other mechanisms, such as measures for the international promotion of these products, which must be effective both in the united states and on international markets. and we know that there are many possible formulas within the rules that the market sets. but for this to be done effectively, there must also be a strong increase in funding. the commission must therefore implement these measures to defend our farmers and livestock farmers, to make them stronger and more competitive and to make such important products as wine, oil and manchego cheese - which is, incidentally, unique in the world - stronger and more competitive.
madam president, madam commissioner, the idea of europe is, among other things, that when one part of us suffers, we all suffer, and we must all help that part. products and sectors such as wine, agri-food industries, need the solidarity of this house and the support of the commission in the face of the commercial attack and the imposition of tariffs by the ineffable tenant of the white house. they need help to address a problem that is everyone's problem by asking, first of all, for negotiation to stop this madness. let us remember mitterrand when he said: "nationalism is war". 'protectionism is trade war,' he added. aid to survive and overcome this blow of promotion, yes, but also additional compensatory measures to help wine, to help businesses, to help the agri-food industries. we need a strong european position, one that is solid and ready to defend a key part of our economy and our jobs.
in writing. following the world trade organisation ruling in the airbus case, the us government has decided to impose significant tariffs on a list of 150 european products. unfortunately, spain is among the countries most affected, with a potential impact of over 1 billion euros on its exports to the us. among the products most affected are olive oil, table olives, wine, citrus fruits and mussels. i would like to stress the importance of not starting a trade war between the united states and the european union, given the potential consequences it may have for both economies. we must continue to rely on free trade as a growth mechanism. however, i am in favour of establishing more support measures for the producers concerned, especially through promotional companies to help operators strengthen their presence in the us market or even open up to new markets. we must be firm and use the mechanisms provided for in the cap to protect spanish farmers and to ensure that the tariffs imposed do not result in job losses and a loss of competitiveness in the european agricultural sector.
madam president, we ask you, president von der leyen, that the commission continue to work for a stronger, more united and more secure europe. strong, so that it grows and creates jobs. the european union must be united, so that we can, in the rule of law, confront the nationalisms and populisms that threaten it. and safe, so that we can defend our external borders, fight terrorism and defend democracies around the world. but we also need a more useful europe for all citizens. we ask the new commission to be useful, so that young people have opportunities, so that entrepreneurs, small and large enterprises, continue to create jobs, because employment is the best social policy to leave no one behind. we see to legal immigration. we must also be useful in meeting the demographic challenge of our old continent, taking care of our rural world and defending our agriculture, livestock and fisheries. let us continue to be ambitious in the fight against climate change to take care of our planet and, above all, lead the technological, innovative and digital revolution for a more competitive europe. if we are useful, europe will be closer and we will achieve the europe of the people, the europe of equality. we need more europe, with closer management and less bureaucracy. only together will we continue to be the best place for peace, freedom, equality and progress in the world. i am convinced that the new commission and its president will be up to the task. they have the full support of the spanish delegation of the popular party.
madam president, since the elections we have had a long and intense run to get to where we are today, and while i regret that we have failed to deliver on our promise on the spitzenkandidaten, i’m proud that all key issues that my political family campaigned for are now part of this commission’s works programme. and the s&d group has not been shy with our concerns and demands and we have achieved key results. in the field of foreign affairs, let me underline that the credibility of the eu as a global actor rests on our ability to have a successful policy at our very doorstep, but first it relies on our capacity to have our own house in order. we expect this commission to take a very firm stance on protecting the rule of law both at home and abroad, and that implies a strong stance against the putins, erdoğans, bolsonaros, trumps and viktor orbáns of this world. my group also urges this commission to do everything in its power so that early next year a green light is given to the start of accession talks with north macedonia and albania. commissioners, it is time to start the really important work: to deliver results on an ambitious plan to tackle the climate crisis while ensuring a fair transition; to deliver on sustainable development goals; to give better protection to workers; and to have a value-driven foreign policy. i’m fully confident that, under the leadership of our first vice-president and lead candidate, frans timmermans, with a strong team of social democratic commissioners, this commission will stand close to its citizens, is ready to listen and is determined to address their hopes and concerns.
madam president, i would like to say to the president-elect that she has my vote, but it’s a vote of pragmatism and not of passion – yet. there are several positives: there are many excellent – and even exceptional – personalities, the highest number of women and even a woman president, a green deal, and a focus on geopolitics. that’s all good. but i also have doubts, i’ll be honest. madam president—elect, your stubborn refusal to withdraw the controversial title of the migration portfolio shows that you are keener to placate warsaw and budapest than to work with progressive forces in parliament – and no, the cosmetic change does not convince me. an independent commission is crucial for a well-functioning eu, and so far you’ve been the candidate mainly of the national governments. but the 200 million europeans who voted in may this year did not vote for the old intergovernmental europe of backroom deals, but for a modern and transparent parliamentary democracy. you need to show if you belong to the old or the new europe. you have my vote. now you must earn my enthusiasm. good luck. (applause)
madam president, i have to ask you. mrs von der leyen, despite some excellent representatives, this group will not be voting today on the college that you present to us today. there are some tolls that make it unviable. the most visible and obvious one is that we have left the neighbourhood policy in the hands of viktor orbán, something we can pay very dearly for. but we are also concerned about the demographics portfolio or the european lifestyle portfolio, titles that indicate an orientation for these portfolios that we are deeply concerned about as feminists and human rights defenders. i assure you that we will be particularly attentive to the steps that are taken in each of these portfolios. however, mrs von der leyen, we have not come here to be mere spectators. there's nothing more useless than being in institutions on a testimonial basis. we have come here to change things and to give a new twist and impetus to the european project. so to the extent that we can work in areas such as the feminization of foreign policy, in responding seriously to the climate threat, in responding to the social urgencies of many of our fellow citizens, you will find in this parliamentary group a group of men and women mps willing to work. but now it is up to you to show that there is the political will to build those progressive majorities in europe in the social, environmental and feminist terms that we so badly need.
i have to say, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, many of you are applauding this new commission. i take the liberty of expressing a contrary opinion. from where i'm sitting, she's got a smooth false start. why would you do that? two things: firstly, we have a provision in the lisbon treaty that this commission, consisting of 26 or 27 commissioners, should be reduced by at least a third in order to be able to deal with all the stories in a more efficient, leaner and also more productive way. that has been omitted. the problem with this large number of commissioners is that new regulations are constantly being devised and drawn up, because many people who are perhaps not known in their home countries have the approach here of wanting to establish their own function. secondly, there is no reference to the fact that there is a gap in europe between those who want more centralisation and those who want more flexibility, who also want more national sovereignty. there was no answer. but it would also be possible to do so if we finally abandoned this flood of regulations and focused on what europe really needs: more security at its borders and more prosperity. the continent should not be mistreated with more and more regulations.
madam president, first of all i wanted to remember, to honour here the 13 french soldiers who died in the fight of civilization against islamist terrorism. secondly, mrs von der leyen, i would like to tell you that we are going to vote against your commission, because we believe that it has embarked on an ideological adventure which does not really represent the interests of europeans and the various european nations themselves; of those sectors which are very frightened at the moment because you have embarked - as i say - on an adventure which is of great concern to all of us: what they are calling the green deal at the moment. it is a real fantasy, based on chimeras, based on scientific assumptions, which nobody proves - as we have just seen - which is demanding not only huge amounts of money, which are going to be mobilized here, to control more nations, to control more individuals and to control more companies, against freedom, but also huge sacrifices to different nations and to different sectors, which then will not have any compensation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the european parliament adopted a resolution last october, on the initiative of the socialist and democratic group, condemning the interference of foreign powers in our democratic processes, but new cases are emerging. meanwhile, the italian judiciary has recently opened an investigation into international corruption over alleged russian funding of matteo salvini's lega, but beyond the criminal implications, murky events remain in evidence, never fully clarified. the italian case was preceded by an austrian case, a french case and, just to be on the up-to-date, interference during the referendum campaign for britain's exit from europe. this is not a conspiracy, this is dangerous for the maintenance of our democratic systems, because often, by fomenting hate campaigns on the web, public opinion is conditioned and thus electoral processes are influenced. that is why it is important that the debate continues and that the spotlight is not turned off, even if we propose a parliamentary committee again. we have a duty to be clear and to defend our democratic institutions.
madam president, i have to ask you. congratulations to the commissioner on her re-election. i wanted to talk about interference. we're seeing a lot of interference. there has been talk of interference in catalonia by russian agents. there are, of course. but we have been seeing a lot of interference in europe. we have seen mrs merkel's interference in virtually all the european elections that have been held from hungary to austria en masse, and so on and so forth. what non-interference has there been from europeans towards the united states in 2016 when they all devoted themselves like a chorus to insulting trump? but i am going to talk about a much more serious interference than that and that is what we have at the moment in spain. in spain the socialist party is about to make an electoral alliance with the support of the catalan separatists, but with an alliance with the communists of podemos. podemos is a venezuelan franchise formed in venezuela by chávez and the cubans, financed by them and that will have a place in the council of ministers, with which we will practically have maduro within the council of ministers in spain. the risk of the massive interference of the são paulo forum in all of latin america is going to be repeated in europe with this alliance of the socialists and the communists in spain.
madam president, i also congratulate mrs jourová on being back in the commission and on returning to the commission; we have many issues to work on together, apart from this one. i would like to say that europeans and the political leaders of the european union must stop hoping for naivety, because there is clearly a coalition of enemies outside the european union, who are seeking to weaken it - if not also to destroy it - and who are also in alliance with people inside our member states, whether in political movements or in other structures. this is a reality, and we must equip ourselves with the means to deal with this threat and to defuse it. we think that, of course, we have prohibitions within the european union on foreign powers financing electoral campaigns for european elections, but are we sure that we have the same degree of protection in the member states? because that is also how the european union is being disabled and damaged.
madam president! this is another debate on the same subject. the subject, the problem seems very important, but the debate is unnecessary. it seems to me that the european parliament seems to be succumbing to conspiracy theories, by blasting outside interference in any election that doesn't suit the major parties. i think we should be concerned about something else, about other forms of interference in democratic processes in europe: for example, the russian influence in the german spd through former chancellor gerhard schröder, or the influence of gazprom in that country, the influence on the austrian spö through former chancellor gusenbauer, the russian influence also in other parties or on president macron, which can be felt in his recent statements, especially in the famous interview for the economist. it's a serious problem, and we should discuss it.
madam president, i have to ask you. congratulations, commissioner, on your appointment. the interference is a fact, but at the same time we must know that the interference is a strategy. so it's a plan and it's a goal. and that objective is to weaken our democratic systems and the european union itself. and if we are to weaken democratic systems and the european union, nothing better than to use those who in the past have destroyed european democratic systems and destroyed europe, namely nationalism and populism. fortunately, we live in democratic systems and in a democratic european union in which, among other things, it is possible to hear such bizarre claims as that chancellor angela merkel is an external interference in europe. that said, it must be said that the challenge posed by countries such as russia, china and others is an existential challenge that does not accept compromises. interference is not just a social media thing. it is media manipulation, it is infiltration of agents, it is counterfeiting, it is funding of front organizations and political parties. it is extremely serious, and it is no secret that the presence and activities of russian intelligence agents have already been detected in several countries of the union. the latter, by the way, spain, which has determined the opening of a judicial investigation into the presence and activities of these agents in catalonia around the dates of the illegal vote of 2017. this grave threat gives a new meaning to the position of the european commission as guarantor of the treaties, in this case also as guarantor of the democratic architecture of europe. we must be clear in the denunciation, we must be active in the use of all means and we must also be clear in demanding that all, public and private actors, assume their responsibility in responding to this threat.
mr president, this debate is not about preventing the leaders of a foreign country from expressing their preferences, let alone their worldview. we remember, for example, that françois hollande had wrongly, of course made hillary clinton the future president of the united states in 2016. it is recalled that a year later, emmanuel macron suggested to the poles - not without a certain arrogance, moreover - to have better leaders. the purpose of this debate should not be to wish that politicians could no longer give their opinion. the real question is the nature of the means employed. today, some foreign powers have realised that more than half of europeans only get their news from social networks. unfortunately, due to the misuse of algorithms, bots and artificial intelligence, many european internet users end up trusting anonymous people who post defamatory and hateful opinions more than their democratically elected leaders. on twitter, more than 150,000 russian-language accounts were created in english in 2016, a few weeks before the brexit referendum, to destabilize europe. i am announcing that in the coming days i will ask the newly created european commission - which i congratulate - to set up a programme to detect messages from foreign powers that converge, in order to alert the public on social networks during the election campaign. the technological means for this ambition are perfectly present, and the role of the european union is to be much more aggressive and to compete with the manipulators on their own ground. european internet users are not meant to become the digital valets of russian or american interests. let us adopt the beautiful conviction of hannah arendt, who said: "totalitarianism is when the distinction between fact and fiction no longer exists". the naivety of europe is unfortunately not a fiction, but at least let us make the reactivity of the european union a reality.
mr. president, congratulations, commissioner, on your re-election to the office. of course, this isn't the first time we've discussed this subject. the european union says as early as 2015 that it will actively tackle disinformation and fake news. but here's what we have now: half of the oecd member countries that held elections in 2018 were targeted by cyberattacks, three times more than in 2015. obviously, we live in the age of social media, and voters are the main target, even more so than the candidates in the election. we all know in our country that this is happening. foreign interference online has the immediate, obvious objective of manipulating information and changing voter opinion. we must not, commissioner, run away from the regulations. democracy is not just rights, it's not chaos. without restricting the freedom of the press, we have to make the decision and you have the resolution of the parliament. the newly elected commission must come up with a concrete proposal. we can't let every state regulate. information crosses borders, and that's why i think we need to have concrete measures to eliminate fake news and influence elections in every country.
mr president, the difference between a dictatorship and a democracy is precisely the fact that you can vote freely from time to time to confirm or change the rulers. it is one of the most important rights and duties of citizens. as a spaniard, i speak with full knowledge of the facts and cannot overlook, in this debate on the free exercise of the right to vote, the testimony of heroism of those who, in the basque country and in navarre, for decades defended democracy and freedom under the pressure of the terrorist gang eta, which maintained a political arm dependent on it, and took advantage of the terror it provoked to obtain political representation that did not belong to it. in fact, one of its leading figures, mr pernando barrena, who was convicted of belonging to the terrorist group eta, is now an mep. ladies and gentlemen, today we face a new external threat, brought about by those who wish to see our ambitious political project fail. interference in electoral processes is the tool of the enemies of open societies, authoritarian regimes and populist forces. this is a global threat that we have seen with fake news on brexit, or in interference in electoral processes in the european union, as in france, and that we also suffered in spain during the crisis of the secessionist challenge in catalonia in 2017. we must therefore assume that we will be under constant attack against our stability, that is, our freedom. some of these attacks and threats are obvious, others seemingly invisible, but equally disturbing. as we know, all these attacks have the same goal: to destabilize us, divide us, confuse us and ultimately weaken us. so we must react now and defend ourselves against them, and to do that we need more means to detect how they do it, more shared intelligence to prevent their undesirable effects, more unity to stand together against our adversaries and their attacks. we need institutions that guarantee the cleanliness of electoral processes, and we need to have an impact on education, on the humanities, on responsible citizens. if we do not protect the voting process in a fair and free way, we will be accepting the devaluation of the democratic quality of our countries. we're playing with our own credibility.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs mogherini on the statement she made following mr pompeo's statements in which he gave a letter of guarantee to the illegal israeli settlements in the occupied palestinian territory. i would like to congratulate you on the content of your statement and on the promptness of your reaction. and i also want to point out that that has been a constant throughout your tenure. i hope - and i am convinced that it will be - that the same will be true of mr borrell. but we must agree, mrs mogherini, that although these statements have always been timely and necessary, and have value - they have value because they are in some way opposing the systematic violation by israel of the human rights of the palestinian people and of international law - the effect has been very limited. the oslo accords were reached through the generosity of the palestinian people, who gave up 78% of their territory and recognized the occupying power as a state in exchange for the establishment of a palestinian state on the remaining 22%. that's signed in the oslo accords. israel has violated the agreements from the very beginning, and not only the agreements: it has violated international law and un resolutions. in the meantime, palestine has fully complied with all its commitments. what are israel's failings that i can point to as examples? the blockade of gaza; the systematic bombing of the civilian population of gaza; ten or twelve days ago, the last attack. because netanyahu has an internal problem, he solves it by bombing gaza, provoking. rockets are coming... i ask that we move from words to deeds. the european union must recognise the palestinian state and encourage the member states to do the same. and we must call into question, suspend the treaty... (the president withdraws the speaker)
mr president, compliance with international law is a duty of all states, and israel - on which i think we can all agree - cannot and must not be an exception. that said, mrs mogherini, i am concerned about the use that certain parties want to make of the conflict to show an increasingly less concealed hatred of israel. because the rise of anti-semitism is one of the biggest problems facing the european union. as the fundamental rights agency reported last year, in twelve of the member states more than a third of those interviewed feared being attacked because of their jewish religion and almost half faced insults and harassment on a daily basis. but insults and attacks are always the prelude to something worse, as we unfortunately saw with horror after the recent bombing in halle during the yom kippur celebration. when we allow anti-semitism to be normalized, we fuel the violence suffered by our jewish compatriots in the streets of europe. the fact that after 70 years the jews are not safe in their own land is a terrible failure and above all it calls for the european union's responsibility and active participation.
mr president, thank you, mrs mogherini, for your work over the years. in the field of american foreign policy we are beyond the point of astonishment, but we must not fail to underline the poisonous nature of this doctrine which turns the de facto possession of a territory into a legal title that legitimizes that capacity because it simply throws the helsinki security system into the trash. because this case goes beyond the question of israel and palestine. can we apply this doctrine that holding a territory de facto legitimizes its occupation in the case of crimea? can we consider that if turkey stays in syria for i don't know how many months or years, it will be a legitimate possessor of that territory? do we apply the pompeo doctrine to south ossetia? that is why i say that the case goes far beyond the case of israel and palestine. what we have to say is that we can never turn the stabilization of a conflict on a border into a legal title that legitimizes the aggressor. and so what mr pompeo has done is not a violation of international law: it is an attack on the heart of simple, civilised international relations.
mr president, not only is latin america in the midst of a political and social earthquake, so is the middle east. iraq, lebanon, iran, egypt, sudan, algeria: countries in deep crisis in the maghreb and the middle east, which have been the victims of a vicious struggle to seize their resources. many people are taking to the streets and demanding bread, freedom and social justice, dignity, for years. the response has been more repression, more impunity and more geopolitical chaos in a devastated region: from the illegal us invasion of iraq to the drama in syria, yemen and libya, not to mention the israeli occupation of palestine, western sahara or the kurdish peoples. each and every one of these crises has suffered european intervention; now they suffer its abandonment. mrs mogherini, will europe have a role to play in the middle east or will we let these people suffer and the far right profit from the consequences of this disaster? europe must put military interventions to rest, be an independent, stabilizing actor, and strive for relations on an equal footing. for justice with those who demonstrate in the streets of the countries we have destroyed, and for the very fate of our continent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, madam vice-president and high representative, for your work and also for the statement you have made today, which i support. if you look at what is happening in the arab islamic world -- we see the situation in algeria, the situation in lebanon, the situation in iraq, the situation in iran -- one would be tempted to think that we are facing a kind of second arab islamic spring. if there is a regime change in algeria, there is a regime change in lebanon and iraq, and in iran there are large protests that have been suppressed in a totally unacceptable way. i think what our colleague from renew said is true. this parliament must take a position on the situation in iraq with a resolution, and our future high representative, mr borrell, must take the situation in these three countries very seriously, and we must have a strategic approach to the whole situation.
mr. president, i grew up surrounded by old oak and chestnut trees. in my country, as in the rest of europe, forests are the life and lungs of our ecosystems. for centuries they have been warmth, shelter and food. all those who protect our trees deserve the defence of this parliament, whether it be the romanian guards - to whom we send our solidarity and condemn what they are suffering - or the ngos. i know well how a forest can be fought for from civil society and institutions. i would like to take this opportunity to make a plea for all the native and primitive forests of europe, some of which are threatened and attacked by greed. on the atlantic front of the iberian peninsula we are losing traditional forests. as elsewhere in europe, our old 'varied and vibrant' forest cover is being replaced by forest monocultures which only represent private interests, impoverish the soil and favour the action of arsonists. we must also remember that planting forests is not the same as creating a forest. for this reason we must support and reinforce the work of those who care, because they are also taking care of us and those who are to come, remembering that a primitive forest is a persevering and stubborn fighter against climate change. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the answer is 'blue card'. i think romania's situation is very unique. i do not agree that this extension makes sense for all the countries of the european union. certainly not for mine. now, yes, we must equip them, if not with those tools, yes with weapons but legal ones, that the laws protect them more than today.
mr president, yesterday was red wednesday. this day is recognised internationally, and is dedicated to christians who are persecuted for their beliefs. according to the world watch list, algeria is placed 22 out of 50 countries that most persecute christians. this year the algerian ministry of the interior closed 15 protestant churches and declared them illegal. worshipers and pastors have been assaulted by police forces in raids targeted on churches during mass services. we demand for all churches to be rightfully re-opened. we demand for the ministry of the interior to approve the application of christian organisations. i also encourage the eu to pressure algerian officials to comply with the guarantee of freedom of religion established in the algerian constitution. thank you for the broad support from across the political parties, i’m very happy about it.
mr president, madam high representative, the algerian regime is oppressing freedom; it has been suppressing freedoms since february 22, the day of the launch of hirak, the popular peaceful protest movement that started in the streets of algiers and has now spread throughout the country. the protesters are now focusing on the presidential election on december 12, which was set by the military and heralds a further freezing of power. the algerian regime is violating the rights of students, journalists, trade unionists and workers who have been on the streets for ten months now, and in particular those of the 42 protesters sentenced to six months in prison for marching with the amazigh flag. because today, waving a berber flag in the streets of algiers leads to prison. our resolution condemns all these authoritarian deviations of the regime; it expresses our attachment to the algerian people's thirst for independence and to the youth who suffer from the bad life. as they say there too (...), we ask for freedom for the algerian people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all concerned about the news coming from algeria. we are concerned about the persecution of political leaders, the suppression of demonstrations, the arbitrary detention of journalists, but we are particularly concerned about attacks on freedom of worship and religious freedom. the attacks on christian minorities. however, we must be very careful in this matter, lest the 'goodness' which is characteristic of the european union leads us to take decisions which move the hornet and produce effects like in libya or syria which are much worse than those we had initially. i would also like to make it clear that i do not believe that any of us in this parliament were elected by the electorate to solve the problems of algeria, but to solve the problems of our own people. and in this respect i am also particularly concerned that algeria is one of the countries that is least cooperating with the member states in the return of migrants who enter europe irregularly, especially in spain where they enter en masse in almeria, murcia or the balearic islands. the ability of the european union to require third countries to comply with our rules and to repatriate in order to avoid the so-called 'call effect' is an essential element of immigration policy.
mr president, i would also like to condemn the violence that has been taking place in algeria over the last few months, with large numbers of citizens protesting against the situation in the country. the state power suppresses all human rights, i think that algeria has escaped our perception, and we should condemn these cases of suppression of human rights there is even torture and humiliation unequivocally. at the same time, i would like to condemn unequivocally the violence perpetrated against minorities, especially christians. we've been sending a lot of development aid to algeria for several decades. i think we have the right to expect the algerian government to meet the conditions for this development aid. i would like to make our development aid - and i would also like to call on the high representative present here today, and thank her for her support - conditional on the algerian government actually meeting these commitments.
mr president, vice-president mogherini, of course we have reason to discuss algeria in a foreign policy debate. what can european diplomacy do to promote democracy and rights where there has been such harsh and prolonged repression? is it necessary to recall that algeria was once the territory of application of european law, between 1957 and 1962? independence won, but not freedom. there has been a repressive military regime for too long, which is now escalating with arbitrary arrests, preventive detentions and mass arrests of dissidents and opponents so that these elections cannot take place, since president buteflika, after 30 years, has finally resigned from re-election, from running for the presidency again. he was replaced by the president of the senate, who called elections for 4 july, then postponed to 12 september and finally to 12 december, but which have not yet taken place. there is a systematic attempt to suppress dissent. the european union has the right to use all its diplomacy to try to restore normalcy, fundamental rights so that democracy and freedom are finally possible in algeria.
mr president, my group is not a signatory to this resolution, but i, for my part, support both the spirit and the letter of it. of course, we did not wait until today to stand with the algerian democrats who are tirelessly fighting against corruption, for fundamental freedoms and social justice. indeed, today, as we speak, there is repression, journalists are worried, protesters are unjustly imprisoned, opposition is suppressed. of course, we cannot remain silent. like some colleagues, i too regret that this resolution is coming now rather than in february, when a powerful citizens' movement was rising up which would have needed our support. while the electoral process is as questionable as it is contested, i know for a fact that the government will use our work to talk about interference and refer the protesters to hypothetical foreign agents. but the truth is this political situation; we are not interfering, but we are unwaveringly supporting the algerian people, and in particular a youth that is hungry for dignity, freedom and justice. it is this that we are thinking of today as we speak.
mr president, i, like my colleagues, also support this motion for a resolution. it is clear that we must stand with the algerian people who are expressing their political preferences, their desire for human rights, freedom and democracy. let us do our utmost for this and it will probably be the subject of important work by the next high representative responsible for foreign policy to contribute to the holding of free and democratic presidential elections in algeria. it will also be very important to highlight the rise of religious intolerance by the algerian elite and government towards religious minorities. it's a really big problem, we have to clearly stand on the side of ethnic and religious minorities, not just christians, and we have to clearly say that unfortunately the developments in algeria recently are rather negative and a departure from european values.
mr president, ‘all of them must step down’ cry tens of thousands of algerian protesters, voicing their demands that key officials from the bouteflika era should resign before the country holds new elections. twice—weekly protests have taken place since bouteflika’s resignation, gaining momentum in recent weeks. meanwhile the authorities are ramping up the arrest of peaceful protesters with quick-fire trials and 18—month jail terms. we call on the authorities to ensure fair and open trials for all protesters, and we deplore any action targeted at peaceful protesters. the army, now the main player in algeria’s politics, has repeatedly vowed transparency ahead of the vote. reporters without borders has warned that algerian journalists are under growing pressure to portray the election in a favourable light. but four journalists with the pro—government daily le temps d’algérie were suspended when one of them accused the management of censorship. the others were suspended when they walked out in solidarity. we call on the authorities to respect freedom of speech and democracy.
a uachtaráin, is comharsa linn í an ailgéir agus is ceart go mbeadh caidreamh maith againn léi, mar a bhíonn againn de ghnáth. a uachtaráin, is comharsa linn í an ailgéir agus is ceart go mbeadh caidreamh maith againn léi, mar a bhíonn againn de ghnáth. a uachtaráin, is comharsa linn í an ailgéir agus is ceart go mbeadh caidreamh maith againn léi, mar a bhíonn againn de ghnáth. but at the same time, we have to be concerned about what has happened recently, especially with regard to the laws in the uk. it's an important day for my own group, but it's also a day for christians and the church and the community around the world. there is no one who can do anything about it. there are no laws in the world that are against it. for without caithfimid brú the chur orthu is without the chosc sea - what the dhéanann in heaglaisí? they're not going to be able to balance their budget. frequently, there are laws in place that do not allow people to be free to have, especially in the media, no citizens in general and should also not be forced to have the freedom to have their country.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr president, algeria is not only a neighbouring country it is, of course but it is above all a political and economic partner, and a friendly country. for many european citizens, algeria also represents family. so we are not talking about a country among others, we are talking about a country very close to us, a friendly country. i think that the first feeling that all of us in europe have towards the algerian people is friendship and closeness. we have total respect for the sovereignty and autonomy of algeria. i think it is very important that this debate should reaffirm this in the loudest and clearest possible way. it is up to the algerians, and only the algerians, to decide the present and the future of their country. this is precisely why algerians must be free to express themselves with the guarantees afforded by their constitution and the international agreements signed by algeria. there are certain principles that algeria has subscribed to, as some of you have referred to: first and foremost in the algerian constitution but also with international agreements and with the association agreement that algeria has with the european union. these principles include all fundamental freedoms, including political freedoms, freedom of expression, the right to peaceful assembly, freedom of the press, and the freedoms guaranteed by the universal declaration of human rights, the cornerstone of our association agreements. so it is important that all the different actors in the current moment in algeria can enjoy these rights. this is a message that not only comes from this debate today, but i think this is exactly the message we have consistently conveyed to our algerian partners, interlocutors at all levels, constantly over this month. i believe that this will continue to be the message that the next commission, the incoming high representative, will continue to pass on to our interlocutors in algeria. algerians can build consensus around the future of the country, in line with the people's legitimate expectations and this can only happen peacefully and democratically in full respect of the principles that algeria has subscribed to. i believe the european union, as i said, will continue to engage with all algerian actors, as we have done so far, as neighbours, as partners and as friends and i am sure that this parliament will accompany the work of the next commission in this respect.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on five motions for resolutions on cuba, namely the case of josé daniel ferrer (2019/2929 (rsp)).
author. mr. president, i have been subjected to everything: a thousand tortures and violence; i have been chained hand and foot; i have been put in the sun for fifteen days in a cell full of mosquitoes and cold in the morning (risk of pneumonia). my life is in grave danger. if they don't move, i will die these words were written in a letter by josé daniel ferrer, who managed to trick his prison guards into delivering it to his wife. let us hear again today in the european parliament the words of this man who has suffered for more than a decade at the hands of castroism because of his human rights activism. mr. ferrer's case is a shocking one. but like his there are hundreds more cases of political prisoners of conscience and thousands of pre-criminal prisoners well documented by the independent group the cuban prisoners defenders. torture, police violence against civil society, forced expatriations, political persecution, arbitrary arrests and imprisonment of activists, journalists and human rights defenders are crimes on the order of the day committed in that cuba by its authorities. we must demand the immediate release of josé daniel ferrer and the many others who are suffering human rights violations under the political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the european union and the cuban government, an agreement which, incidentally, has not had a positive impact on the cuban civilian population. in addition to the resolution, we will ask the new high representative to take parliament's position into account in his talks with the cuban authorities and to request the entry of our parliament into cuba.
author. mr president, today we are voting on a resolution on cuba, on josé daniel ferrer, who is a political prisoner, one of many political prisoners in one of the most cruel dictatorships in existence today, and yet a dictatorship that this parliament and, above all, the european union and the commission are really treating in a way that it does not deserve. this was the case with the dialogue and cooperation agreement that was signed against all those voices that said, that recalled that concessions to a dictatorship that does not make concessions, that always declares that they continue with what they have, that they will continue as a single party, that they will continue with the communist dictatorship and that no one expects changes in this regard are really a cooperation to reaffirm that dictatorship. that dictatorship which has embarked on an expansionist adventure across the continent; which is currently in venezuela, supporting one of the most monstrous dictatorships that has plunged the richest country in latin america into hunger, despair and terror. a dictatorship that is destabilizing with venezuela the existing democracies in the region. in the face of that, i think, i hope that there will be dignity in this parliament to vote for that resolution for the freedom of ferrer and for the freedom of cuba.
author. mr president, the socialist group has shown in the negotiations - and wants to reiterate now - its concern about the ferrer case. we call for his immediate release because we believe that his detention has been arbitrary and that the conditions of his imprisonment are not acceptable. no difference on that side. but we do move away from the instrumentalization of this unfortunate human rights case - which is the meaning of these matters of political importance - to question how, in most of its content, the resolution does the current framework of european union-cuba relations. the political dialogue and cooperation agreement was a vindication of the sterile twenty years of isolation with which we would once again align ourselves with the worst version of american policy on cuba, which is sanctioning european companies that are operating there. the current framework, with its formalized dialogues on human rights, gives us more leverage and pressure, and is more useful in general and for cases like ferrer's. critical engagement with cuba is our model.
author. mr president, the right and the far right still refuse to accept that mr aznar's infamous common position is over. and they insist on acting as mr. trump's butlers. and for that they do not hesitate to raise fantasies like the one we just heard here. today we are presented with a text in which they instrumentalise the arrest and judicial process, with all the guarantees, of a criminal accused of kidnapping and with a long history of sexist crimes, including beatings of his ex-wife who is 36 weeks pregnant. in cuba, the opposition is acting normally. where it is persecuted, repressed, detained and sometimes murdered, it is in friendly countries such as colombia, ecuador, chile and, since the coup d'état, in bolivia. you will not find images of cuban police repressing opposition protesters, as we see them daily in those exemplary democracies. the accusations about alleged cuban intervention in other latin american countries are simply ridiculous. the only intervention cuba has made in other countries, and not just in latin america, is with troops of teachers and doctors. unlike the united states in iraq, syria and libya, which seems to concern the authors of this text very little. take it on. cuba is real. follow the european union in this. they respect and support an equal relationship with the cuban people at once. just be the democrats.
madam president, if europe is leading the fight against climate change in the world today, it is thanks to the leadership of the european people's party. with juncker and arias cañete; with achievements such as the paris agreement. but we didn't settle. we must convince - and demand - all regions of the world to match our ambition. let's export our knowledge and good management to make a cleaner, healthier planet. we want europe to teach the world to join the fight against climate change. and the best way to do that is with the leadership of ursula von der leyen and the green deal. but in this great global challenge facing us all, neither the denialism of the extreme right nor the hysteria of the extreme left fit. this great challenge requires unity, rigour, responsibility and leaving no one behind. the fight against climate change must always go hand in hand with economic growth, more and better jobs, involving all productive sectors and all citizens. they - workers, businesses, the self-employed, farmers, livestock farmers, fishermen, families - are the main actors and the main beneficiaries of this transformation towards a circular, clean, responsible and competitive economy. we must therefore give them all the tools, all the economic, social, legal, training and impact-oriented resources, so that no one is left behind. i don't want to end without giving a message to the young people, because they are the future of the world. your best ally is the european people's party, a loyal ally who will take care of your opportunities, of europe and of the planet like no one else. because the european people's party has always been the protagonist of the great transformations.
in writing. – we are faced with two major global challenges: climate change and digitalisation. the eu is set to be the first continent to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 and this requires a transformation, an environmental transformation and a digital transformation. at the same time, we are at the forefront of an industrial revolution, industry 4.0. to achieve the transition in a just and social way, a just transition mechanism can help regions transform towards a less carbon dependent economy that leaves no one behind. the green deal puts forward a growth strategy for the eu with the aim of reaching our climate commitments, while creating business opportunities for the european industry and our smes, as well as quality jobs. digital technologies, such as ai and 5g, are uniquely positioned to provide effective tools for the shift towards a circular and lean economy and decrease the carbon footprint across many industries, but at the same time the digital sector needs to become sustainable. and in the transition towards a sustainable economy, we need a smart future-looking strategy that places innovation at its heart and ensures leadership for the eu, while safeguarding our industrial, digital and strategic sovereignty.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president the european central bank has been the only institution that has acted in the interest of solving the crisis - the last crisis - on behalf of all europeans. unfortunately, judging by the news coming from certain states, this fact does not seem to be so clear to public opinion. some complain that the ecb is doing too much, and they may be partly right, but what they do not say is that if the european central bank is doing too much, it is because monetary policy is being the only tool being used against the crisis and the states are not doing their part. monetary policy cannot be the only instrument to combat a recession. the european union needs effective countercyclical mechanisms to complement its action, such as a common european unemployment insurance or a budget for the euro area - and the budget has to be the right size, not what the eurogroup seems to be agreeing. we want and believe in an independent european central bank, an institution that tells the truth, however inconvenient it may be, and the truth is that the member states must do more. we are therefore pleased that the two candidates on whom we are voting today have agreed, before the committee on economic affairs of this parliament, to make the european central bank an institution committed to the reforms needed to strengthen the euro area. on the other hand, the complaints about the ecb are not only because it has already been forced to use so much of its monetary policy, but also because of poor communication. we must combat disinformation and monetary populism. we cannot allow the sensationalist media in some countries to say that the ecb is stealing money from savers and pensioners. we need the european union to have a clear account of this. we must be able to defend our institutions and explain to our citizens why the decisions of the european central bank were and are right. this is not a task for the european central bank alone. we in the european parliament must also be more active in condemning the lies of the populists and explaining our decisions. but it is not just the political decisions that need to be explained: the techniques too. we have to explain to the citizens the ideas that motivate us to make the decisions we make. the european central bank must be credible, and it is up to us all to ensure that our single currency, one of our greatest successes, has a prosperous future. this communication challenge is also the challenge facing the future members of the executive board of the european central bank, isabel schnabel and fabio panetta. at renew europe we know that they understand the situation and we believe they are qualified to help resolve it. that's why we're voting for your appointments. we believe that they are qualified to make the right decisions and that they are both qualified to help explain these decisions. as the chairman of our committee has said, we also want to highlight a problem in these appointments and in this procedure, which has to do with the problem of gender parity. the citizens cannot feel represented by a governing council in which half the citizenship is not represented, since only one of the twenty-four members is a woman. in view of this situation, the european parliament, in a resolution adopted in march this year, demanded that the member states submit two names to fill each vacancy: a man and a woman. parliament would choose the most qualified among them. if we don't put women's names on the table, it's impossible for us to achieve gender equality. states must do more in their area of competence. all the governors of the national central banks are men. i'm a teacher of economics. i have been in this business for 25 years and i can assure you that there are many highly qualified women in my profession, and i find it very difficult to understand why it is so difficult to find them. that has to change. i think it is a shame that the picture that president tinagli was talking about should not be repeated, and in that sense we ask the member states to please do their part.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr gentiloni, i will give you some figures which you will find hard to believe: last year apple paid in spain four million euros in corporation tax, with revenues of 394 million; facebook paid 864 000 euros and now listen: netflix, mr gentiloni, netflix paid, ladies and gentlemen, 3 146 euros in corporation tax three thousand. i live in a 24-unit building; probably what netflix brings into my building would have been enough to pay all the corporate tax in spain. unfortunately, these are not isolated cases, but on the contrary, they are examples of how large multinationals avoid paying taxes in the countries of the european union. how, mr gentiloni, are we going to ask our citizens and small businesses to pay their taxes, if we allow those who earn the most to not comply? how are we going to fund our welfare states if those who earn the most money don't contribute to maintaining it in a proportionate way? how can we defend the free market, if the rules are not the same for everyone? this, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the greatest challenges facing the european union. our citizens are watching us and waiting for us to find a just solution. we cannot ignore that globalization and digitalization have changed the world. however, as mr ferber said, we are still facing the challenges of the 21st century with 19th century rules. we can't wait any longer. taxation must adapt to this new reality. the resolution seeks to lay down rules so that collection is much more linked to revenue generation, so that there is fair competition in these markets, between companies and between states. this initiative must be taken at the global level. a country on its own cannot do anything to combat tax evasion, which is carried out on a large scale by certain multinationals. that is why we must cooperate and that cooperation must go beyond the european union. and, as mrs tinagli has said, it is not just a question of taxing digital companies. this is happening far beyond, in all these multinationals. that is why our first objective is to reach a global solution within the framework of the oecd. we believe that this is the appropriate forum, but as you have said, commissioner - and i thank you for the commitment you have made here to us - if the oecd is not able to act by the end of 2020, we must act here. and i assure you of our commitment to that performance. we will try to ensure that if the oecd does not act, the european union at least puts an end to this unfair situation. the resolution is fundamental because it allows the european union to have a single voice in this debate and sends a very clear message that we are in favour of tax justice. this resolution makes it clear that we will not accept that self-employed people and small businesses pay more taxes than large multinationals, that we want a free market in which everyone competes under the same rules and that we will defend our welfare state and the resources that are necessary to sustain it.
i'm asking you to take off your headgear in future because it's not in keeping with the dignity of the house.
mr president, i would like to congratulate boris johnson and the british people on their superb electoral victory with the conservative party, with which we have had the honour of sharing a group here, the ecr group. i am very sorry that they are leaving, because i think that the strong will to freedom of the british people is more necessary than ever to reform the european union, but i congratulate them precisely for their courage to stand up for what they believe is right and never to be intimidated by history. the british elections are a great opportunity for us. the commission and this whole parliament must do a soul-searching, which they did not do on 23 june 2016. the union should have opened a period of reflection at that time to examine the root causes of the outcome. on the contrary, he devoted himself to disqualifying the british decision. the whole european union now has a great opportunity to prevent other countries, which are increasingly uncomfortable in the union, from following the united kingdom in imposing their will on them by unelected bodies (unheard words). it must stop harassing democratic governments with large majorities like (inaudible words) return to stricter subsidiarity and respect for sovereignty (inaudible words) ... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker).
mr president, in europe it is estimated that some 410 000 people live on the streets. besides, this is not a passing situation. it is estimated that in my country, for example, almost 50% have been in this situation for more than three years, and living on the streets kills, ladies and gentlemen. there is no human situation more vulnerable, no situation more offensive to personal dignity and to the very concept of citizenship in europe than living on the streets, than homelessness. we see it, ladies and gentlemen, even on the very doors of the european parliament in brussels, and that should really be a source of shame and embarrassment. we are here today because we have an obligation to act in the face of this situation, not just because the 2030 agenda says so or because the european social pillar says so, but because we have the tools at our disposal. a member country like finland is showing that there are more efficient and effective ways of acting, and we can import that model. we can act directly, we can make recommendations to the member states themselves, which are also heard by regional or local authorities. we can and must act.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the region of murcia, in spain, in the mar menor, in a saltwater lagoon, three tonnes of dead fish appeared in mid-october. this is climate change, for those who deny it. they said it was the last straw, but later it was proven otherwise. the causes are intensive agricultural use, speculation and the lack of regulation by conservative governments for 40 years. and, look, now we need to restore the lagoon's wetland, control the spills and clean the water with green filters. and that is why we spanish socialists have come here, to ask the european commission for support to continue to increase nature-based solutions, to investigate this particular case and also to give help - because they need it - to the fishermen of the mar menor, in the region of murcia, spain.
mr president, we should not have to be debating this today. malta should not have to spend the run—up to christmas on the streets and daphne caruana galizia should still be writing. but we have been forced to stand up to face down a criminal network that has seized control and chipped away at the pillars of our republic, protected by a prime minister who refuses to resign immediately. and this is not hyperbole. for years, our prime minister and his paid envoys have conducted a taxpayer-funded disinformation campaign of vitriol, targeting anyone and everyone who dared to stand up to them. they tried to intimidate, threaten and silence by calling rallies to denounce us as traitors, but we knew then what the world knows now and we refused to give in. now we want the world to know that we are not all cut from the same cloth as joseph muscat and the criminals that he empowers because, when the world looks at malta, they should see our face, a people standing up. they should see people like michael and rose, peter and matthew, andrew and paul, daphne’s family whose search for justice sparked a light that even the darkest of forces could not extinguish. we are closer to justice than ever before but we are not there yet. muscat is still trying to cling to power for at least another 30 days of chaos – interfering, influencing and contaminating the investigation. he must resign immediately if my country stands any chance of moving forward. this must be a catalyst for change. we need a new rule of law mechanism that looks at the situation in every member state, and we needed it yesterday. people fighting corruption, abuse of power and criminality should never be faced with shrugs of shoulders, inaction or excuses that protect political allies. we need the whole truth, we demand justice, we must have accountability, and then we need a massive programme of reforms because, after joseph muscat, nothing can ever be the same again.
mr president, the assassination of daphne caruana galizia was an act of terror that rocked my country, and as i have insisted before, i will insist again today: justice must be done and seen to be done. since day one, the maltese authorities sought the assistance of international specialists, including the fbi and europol, and tangible results were achieved. action has to be taken against whoever is responsible, whoever those persons may be. malta is currently experiencing unprecedented circumstances that shook the whole society, and we want these realities to be addressed in a constructive manner. several recommendations have been made. some of the judicial changes proposed have already been carried out. others, including recommendations by the venice commission and country specific recommendations, are in the process of being carried out, and they will continue to be carried out. as the maltese s&d delegation, we are committed to ensure that the reforms our country has started to implement will continue at a speedier pace so that there are no doubts cast on the impartiality of our institutions. we want to make sure that checks and balances will be ingrained at all levels. we are confident that the process under the oversight of the president of malta to propose constitutional reforms will yield results. in the meantime, all alleged cases of corruption must be thoroughly investigated. no one is above the law, and the fact that time-barring on cases of political corruption was removed should ensure a judicial process in all cases, whenever they happened. currently there are five ongoing magisterial inquiries on cases of alleged corruption, and yes, we want these inquiries to be concluded as soon as possible, for the benefit of all. malta is currently going through a period of political transition until a new prime minister is appointed, and it would be counterproductive if this parliament rushes into prejudgments that can also prejudice the ongoing investigations. i’m here to speak up for a country that showed that it listens; a country that is open to the recommendations made; a country that implements; and yes, to respond to those who find it convenient to harm malta and its people at this hour. one final comment to the european commission. ms jourová referred to this, but i urge you to propose, as quickly as possible, a rule-of-law mechanism made up of independent experts that monitors all the member states in an objective and fair manner. it is what we really need, because conclusions that are not objective do not help anyone. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue-card question. – i’m afraid that things are not as described by my colleague from the s&d, because reports continue coming that supporters of the socialist party in malta are intimidating and deriding civil society activists and family members of daphne caruana galizia. one socialist minister has actually said that activists are acting in a provoking manner. is this to you an acceptable statement from a minister within your political family?
mr president, i would like to thank you. the case of the maltese journalist daphne caruana galizia, already in 2017, has turned out to be a political mess that reaches all the way up to prime minister joseph muscat. the investigation has been dragged out and delayed, but it is clear that this has implications all the way up to the prime minister's level. the eu is unfortunately a toothless tiger without clout and power, but at least we members can show our support and demand justice for galizia, her family and, not least, democracy. i myself come from a country with a very left-wing press corps. but we must never, ever accept that journalists are killed while doing their job as investigative journalists. that is why i would like to say to malta and perhaps especially to prime minister muscat: take responsibility now and let daphne galizia and her family have justice.
mr president, i begin by apologising, apologising for the way the maltese government has acted and is still acting. honestly, i never believed i could be ashamed of the government of countries as i am today. i'm ashamed of the criminal clique that has taken over the maltese government. i am ashamed of the institutions of countries that have not done their job. i am ashamed that they killed daphne caruana galizia. however, the maltese government is not malta. these few criminals do not represent the maltese and gozitan people. the real maltese and gozitan people are in the streets protesting in countries. a resilient people, a strong people, a people who are courageous. these are the real maltese of countries. and while the maltese government makes me ashamed, the maltese people make me proud. proud that we didn't let the man screw us. we are proud to recognize that among the best journalists that have been here on this continent, daphne is one of them. daphne is the real maltese. but now we need action at european level. so much for empty words, vague sentences, and promises of monitoring. action now by the council absent today and by the commission to do your duty. they rose up from there and protected the maltese and the gozitan people. they have ensured that our institutions are on the side of the citizens. the maltese and gozitan people have a right to all this. i am proud to stand with roberta (metsola) and the maltese and gozitan people. i am proud to be part of this family here that has always, always in these two years, been in favour of the maltese and gozitan people!
the murder of maltese investigative journalist and blogger daphne caruana galizia on 16 october 2017 in valletta, close to her home, shocked the whole of europe. maltese citizens rose up to protest this heinous act. some of our maltese colleagues remind us that they are still marching in their thousands today to demand justice. two years later, with the support of europol, the investigation led to revelations last month of the involvement of the highest levels of the maltese state, and in particular of prime minister joseph muscat, in the murder of daphne caruana galizia. it was investigating, as you will recall, major corruption cases in malta. malta is a full member of the european union and these offences threaten the integrity of our entire area, as my colleagues sophie int veld and anna donáth have just said. then i have two questions for you. the first is that parliament is closely following the progress of the inquiry into the situation of the rule of law in the case of journalist daphne caruana galizia. we cannot say the same of the council, as the empty council seat this morning shows. will you ask the council to hold such a debate? the second question is this: the venice commission of the council of neighbourhood europe has already made recommendations to undertake deep institutional reforms in malta, to ensure freedom of the press, the independence of the judiciary and the fight against corruption. what support do you intend to give to the council of europe, to the venice commission, to move forward with malta and adopt these reforms?
madam president, daphne caruana galizia was murdered for doing her job as a journalist. she was killed for exposing gross corruption in malta, and i would like to start by paying tribute to the dignified way in which daphne’s family have continued their campaign for justice. we should honour them by rooting out corruption and ensuring that we act, as eu member states, to uphold european values. the findings of the parliament’s mission to malta raise concerns about the progress of daphne’s murder investigation, and our meps also found that other investigations into possible money laundering and corruption had either not started or are not being conducted vigorously enough. there are questions to be answered over the independence of the maltese judiciary and allegations of corruption that extend to the highest levels of government. we cannot allow an eu member state to operate like a mafia state. i’ve worked a lot on latin america and witnessed the way that the corrupting influence of dirty money can undermine the rule of law and lead to impunity from justice. we’ve also failed in this parliament to deal with money laundering and tax evasion adequately, and that’s something we really need to take seriously, because it can corrupt a democracy, undermine people’s confidence in democracy and, ultimately, undermine european institutions themselves. daphne caruana galizia stood for the highest and finest european values. to honour her memory we must take all necessary action to uphold the rule of law in malta.
the fight against corruption and organised crime is much more than a declaratory commitment to transparency and better regulation, which we often witness in parliamentary life. and i myself, as a representative in the croatian parliament, led the fight against drug trafficking on my island, so i felt on my own skin all the dangers that threaten a man and his family when he is exposed in this way. many have sacrificed what they valued most - their health, their lives - in the fight for the public good. we owe them an eternal debt and must do our utmost to fight crime so that their sacrifice is not in vain. a maltese journalist, daphne galizia, put the interests of maltese society and state before her own. she paid the ultimate price for it, and it would be a shame if the circumstances of her murder remained unsolved. i appeal to the maltese authorities and the european institutions to do everything possible to ensure that this case is resolved as soon as possible and that all those involved in the assassination are brought to justice.
madam president, according to the council of europe’s platform for the protection of journalism and safety of journalists, more than half of the cases of abuses against media professionals are committed by state actors. daphne caruana galizia was assassinated on 16 october 2017, and two years later, every aspect of the case is susceptible to political interference from the office of the prime minister. the union must use all tools at its disposal to guarantee media freedom and the protection of journalists in its member states. we need investigative journalism to learn about structural rule-of-law issues like the high-level corruption cases that daphne was reporting. if the union does not give due consideration to the calls of the maltese citizens, the lack of public confidence will be transferred to the eu itself. and those tools and procedures at the disposal of the commission to ensure full compliance with union law must be deployed not only in malta but also in the member states, to respect human rights in the case of refugees who die in the mediterranean sea as well as the fundamental rights to political participation and the exercise of the right to decide of the peoples of europe. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 171(8))
blue card question. what is it? a member of your group has just said that there are many daphne caruanas in europe. i have here the list of attacks by the terrorist group eta against media and journalists, including four murders and one foiled murder. you have not condemned any of them, and not only have you not condemned them, but you have justified and supported them. you have the opportunity to say here today, before you talk about freedom of expression, as you are doing, whether you condemn all the crimes of eta, including, of course, those that have been directed against journalists and the media.
the answer is 'blue card'. the death of any citizen, not only of the european union, but of the world and especially of media professionals, is deeply inappropriate and will certainly always have the consideration and sympathy of this member of parliament, as i suppose that of the other members of this house. i would like to say that your intervention is completely biased. you have also been part of strategies which have closed media outlets and which have acted directly against freedom of expression from bodies such as the spanish government and i absolutely do not allow or grant you any ... (the president withdraws the speaker)
the european commission has been passive for too long, despite the existence of strong indications of significant cases of conflict of interest in the implementation of the european budget. parliament has been warning and regularly addressing this problem since 2014 without an effective solution to it being found. article 61 (1) of the new financial regulation, which has been in force since august 2018, provides that all actors involved in the implementation of the union budget, including heads of government, are responsible for compliance with the obligation to avoid conflicts of interest. this article also gives the commission greater powers of action, which it has exercised but which are not sufficient. so it's time to act once and for all. it is clear that we must get to the bottom of the cases we now have on the table, but one of the commission's fundamental priorities must be to establish effective mechanisms for actively preventing conflicts of interest and, moreover, it is essential to intervene when the national authorities are not acting accordingly. we cannot allow any kind of conflict of interest to jeopardise the implementation of the budget of the european union and undermine the confidence of its citizens. we need a more ambitious strategy which gives all the guarantees of a correct use of the union budget.
madam president, at european level we have adopted a number of rules on the management of taxpayers' money, including those on conflicts of interest. therefore, persons in any public office must choose which interests they wish to defend, whether their private property interests or the public interests of their citizens. the european commission and we, the european parliament, as co-authors of the european budget, must ensure that these rules are respected. persons in conflict of interest must be excluded from any influence, even indirect, on the management and decision-making of european funds. that's why, by the way, the european parliament has rejected several candidates for commissioner this year, because of a conflict of interest. these rules must be respected at both european and national level. i know that this debate affects several member states, but i shall concentrate on the czech republic. no one expected that such a conflict of interest would directly affect the prime minister of a member state or a minister. i would like to call on prime minister andrei babiš to put an end to this european disgrace of our country. it's totally damaging our country's good name in europe. i would also like to call on the european commission to focus on the czech system of allocating european funds. it seems we have a systemic problem with compliance in the czech republic, and officials are double-dealing.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is not the first time today that members of this house have blamed each other for corruption, or for tolerating corruption, or for hindering the fight against corruption. i don't think that kind of behavior will impress our audience in the stands or on the internet. i am in favour of talking about systemic problems, and i think that all those who have already spoken about the problems of the common agricultural policy in this debate are right. i think that the area premium - and this is the main instrument used to promote farms today - is a wrong instrument and one that invites abuse. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to the question of the budget. but that's just a side effect. i believe that if farmers are invited to promote public goods - such as contributions to clean water, such as protecting biodiversity or animal welfare - then we would make it much more difficult to misuse cap funds and oligarchs would ruin the business.
the honourable member's chairmanship, conflict of interest and corruption in a few member states are common practices when it comes to the use of european funds. we must be clear that european financial instruments are not the only ones being manipulated to gain an unlawful advantage, they are just an addition to national resources that, by the same principle, end up in the pockets of the underprivileged. such discussions usually focus on the protection of the union's financial interests. it is important to prevent european money from being stolen at national level. i think we are approaching this problem wrongly because it is not important to eradicate corruption only when it comes to european funds, but in general. we must be accountable to citizens and protect them from nepotism and corruption, whether it is national or european funds. the eu must show that it cares about people, not just about a share of the money.
madam president, commissioner, if there is one thing that justifies our work as members of this parliament, it is that we must end all forms of corruption - without any doubt - and protect the interests of the citizens - obviously. who's going to question this? now, do not expect me to be on the side of anyone who is trying to make a general judgment against the common agricultural policy. i don't agree with that. there are elements of corruption that must be tackled, in this or other policies, in this fund or the other, but i refuse to have a general questioning of the cap; of course, do not count me in. the common agricultural policy has served to improve the incomes of our farmers; it has supported our public goods; it has also supported our food sovereignty and food security; and it has led to the territorial cohesion of rural areas and also to the avoidance of depopulation. so i refuse that general judgment; rather let's all go and solve that corruption. and let's not put in this bag the financial times which, incidentally, is from a country that is imposing tariffs on our agricultural products. keep an eye on the news.
madam president, the european court of auditors estimates that last year there was a level of irregular payments of 2.6%, an increase of 0.2% compared with last year, which means that, taking into account the total level of expenditure, we are almost at 5 000 million euro in irregular payments, about 100 euro per european citizen. you go tell your voters, i'll tell mine. the court of auditors notes that, of these funds, the level of irregular payments reaches 5% in the area of the cohesion funds and the rural development funds, but it attributes this mainly to the complexity of the rules and eligibility criteria, so that the solution is not to impose coercive mechanisms on the states, but to deregulate, to make the rules simpler, the eligibility criteria clearer and, in the specific case of some countries, such as spain, to prevent that money from being distributed among the autonomous regions, as has happened in andalusia under the socialist government. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question of the 'blue card'. mr buxadé, what is your doubt or question about one of the regions, andalusia, which has managed public resources from the cohesion funds and the common agricultural policy better and more effectively? what are your doubts about it, your political party interests, or what is it?
the answer is 'blue card'. yes, very simply. we are not talking about the common agricultural policy here. we are talking about the destination and the correct destination of the funds coming from the european union. and i do not want to dwell too much on the biggest case of corruption that has been uncovered in spain, specifically in andalusia, in the area of the so-called employment regulation files, in which your government and your party are involved. these are national issues, but we are obviously talking about european funds, also in this case the european social fund for employment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately we have been witnessing for years what can now be called a theatre: the great international conference on climate. 25 years later, the result is the same. a little nothing, a little nothing. twenty-five years that politicians, heads of state, heads of government, scientists, professors have met and the result is once again the same: i didn't do anything wrong. china is the world's largest polluter, followed by the united states, then india, then russia, then japan, and then germany. do you really believe that these big industrial powers will stop their industrial production because it is necessary to save the planet? they never will, only 60-70 years ago, they were at war with each other. we were at war with each other and ready to destroy each other. millions of people have died and now they should change their destructive nature because the planet must be saved and because only four poor scientists say so. they never will. then we must intervene with the european union. yes, that's true, but the green new deal is not enough. we must stop oil drilling once again, now. we must stop imports from china if china does not comply. we must stop imports from the united states if the united states does not comply. if we don't do these brave things, nothing will ever change, and we'll all be roasting, including our children.
madam president, first of all, i would like to highlight the organizational success. cancelling the cop would have been a slap in the face. it is a matter of pride that the socialist government has drawn attention to spain's solvency. a success we want to share with the whole european union. however, as the spanish minister, teresa ribera, has said, the madrid cop leaves a bittersweet taste. in a context marked by citizens' social demands, with greater ambition against climate change and, at the same time, with a group of countries with negative positions, the european union has shown leadership and firmness. the council's agreement to commit to climate neutrality by 2050, the declaration of a climate emergency adopted in this parliament, the simultaneous presentation of the european green deal with the cop, with a great deal of work by commissioner timmermans, managed to engage other governments and prevent the paris agreement from falling off the rails. this shows us the power of the eu when we work together. however, it is true that no significant progress has been made in global carbon markets. some wanted to undermine the paris agreement and the european position has not allowed this. as has been said, better no deal than a bad deal. it's not all bad news. progress has been made on the need to bridge the gap between current efforts and the paris goals, progress has been made on gender perspective, on making a just transition. we have a very tight schedule ahead of glasgow. we have to achieve 55 percent emission reduction. the generation that demands that we live up to it is the one that will have to complete this transition. let's make this easy. let's do more and faster.
madam president, i will be as blunt as the consequences of the current measures are blunt. the outcome of cop25 is the signing of a genocide. two visions that confront the world: those who defend capital and those who defend life. there's no time for glasgow, the time was now. reducing co2 emissions to limit global warming, regulating carbon markets, funding the green fund for the most vulnerable countries remain unfinished business. we have seen the biggest polluting companies subsidise the cop, governments allow it, sit on their boards, and the reactionary international pressing to undermine the targets through accounting tricks. you can't fight climate change without ambition. nor can we, from europe, without questioning the current system, demand individual responsibility and not fight against the big polluters, while we carry out continuity policies that legitimize the plundering of multinationals or bet on free trade agreements that destroy our local fabric. our full support for an ambitious, courageous, binding commitment with resources for a just transition. we're losing the planet on this. we're wasting our lives on it.
madam president, everyone will agree that the best part of cop 25 was the organisation by spain, our mayor almeida and our president ayuso, because the results were not what we expected. europe has done its homework with the introduction of the green deal, but the problem is that only europe does its homework. we must not only lead within the union, but we must convince and demand outside the european union. and let me tell some of you that fighting climate change is not a photo, not a tweet, not waiting for greta to solve all the challenges. because the fight against climate change is not trivial, but vital and everyone's responsibility. within the eu we must overcome the barriers imposed by both the denialism of the far right and the hysteria of the far left. and for the eu to be truly a leader, we need to unlock the multiannual budget: to finance the just transition, to leave no one behind, to protect jobs and the economy. only then will we truly lead the fight against climate change.
madam president, let me first of all emphasize the good organization that spain has carried out, and, ladies and gentlemen, let us look at the good side of the story. it is true that there has been no agreement on the level of ambition we had for reduction commitments in article 6 on carbon markets, but there has been an impeccable leadership role from the european union, and that is why more than 80 countries have decided to increase their reduction commitments. we must also celebrate the overall framework that has been adopted: the european green deal, which is being led by vice-president timmermans. the european union cannot therefore, ladies and gentlemen, show any signs of weakness. we're the model for the rest of the world. we are not alone on this journey. more and more countries are following our model. and we must fight and work to make the next glasgow cop a success of carbon markets, environmental taxation and the implementation - the final and effective truth - of the paris agreements.
madam president, commissioner, every year more than 4 million head of cattle, 4 million head of sheep, 28 million head of pigs and 250 million head of poultry are transported in the european union on long-distance journeys. this gives us the true dimension of the fact that the transport of animals is a fundamental element of livestock farming and of the european economy as a whole which must be protected. the death of 14 000 sheep on the ship that sank off the coast of romania in november is a very unfortunate event and one that must be thoroughly investigated. but it is still an isolated incident which does not represent the reality of the sector. fortunately, the european union has the legislation that best protects the welfare of all transported animals. the citizens can be sure that animals transported in the european union are protected, but the commission must follow suit and enforce compliance with all the rules in force.
madam president, madam commissioner, we need to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our health systems, and digitisation is key. technologies like artificial intelligence are key to accelerating research, to advance in the early prevention of diseases like alzheimer's or, for example, the diagnosis of breast cancer. but for that we need a lot of data and for the member states to cooperate in the implementation of an interoperable information system between the different health centres in europe. and, furthermore, we must ensure patient confidentiality and safety. because this is the most important thing: we must put the patient at the centre and that, in no case, digitisation implies dehumanized care, but quite the opposite. it must make it easier for us to provide new care services that improve our quality of life and give us access to personalised treatment. and for that, we need to digitally empower patients, caregivers and healthcare professionals.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, why are we here today debating the compatibility of the mercosur agreement with the european green deal and not all the trade agreements to be ratified? because this debate is flawed, flawed in its origins and it is only looking for and intending to look for a new enemy. some of them needed a new "z". they've found it: mercosur. and mr jadot has shown that, and he has made that very clear. president von der leyen said at the launch of the european green deal that trade policy can be used to work with our partners on climate and environmental action, the paris agreement being an essential element of any international agreement. well, does this agreement incorporate these principles? let's see, does it have a specific chapter dedicated to sustainable development and environmental protection? i'm not sure. do you accept compliance with the paris agreement as a binding part of the agreement? i'm not sure. have the mercosur countries ratified the paris agreement and committed themselves to implementing it? i'm not sure. if this is so, then why so much suspicion, criticism, fear, and apocalyptic visions? because, ladies and gentlemen, for our climate strategy to have a real global impact, we need partners to join it. and that can only be achieved on the basis of agreements. and this is the most modern one we've signed to achieve these goals. it will not be with opportunist or populist demagogy that we will put out the fires of the amazon, but with commitment, with cooperation and with agreement. because this agreement goes far beyond the purely commercial. it is an agreement signed between partners and allies who share democracy as a political system, respect for the rule of law and human rights and who believe in a multilateral system linked to rules. brother countries that want not only to trade with us, but to live like and with us. it is also the first block-to-block agreement signed by mercosur and consolidates existing trade relations by linking them to common commitments that cannot be waived, values that this agreement recognizes, respects and obliges. and for all that, and despite the fact that this debate has been driven by those who are always against any treaty - with the support of some who want to divert attention from national problems by building up climate soap operas, basing their criticisms on ignorance, prejudice, fake news or lies - let's study this agreement, its implications, its real benefits. and finally, to the question whether the free trade agreement between mercosur and the european union and the commission's proposal for a european green deal are compatible, we can answer with a resounding yes.
madam president, in europe we have a very nice, very recurrent fashion speech about the green deal, which at the first change starts to fail and shows the hypocrisy of a debate, which shows that, while adding new environmental obligations to our farmers, the requirements for imported products are gradually reduced. the problem is that these products, our own and those imported, compete in a global market, but not under the same rules. while the european union is increasingly setting environmental standards, mercosur is allowing, for example, the use of antibiotics with growth hormones and genetically modified soybeans. and in this connection we must remember the strict rules which european producers must comply with in the field of plant health and animal health, as well as respect for the environment. the sustainability chapter in the mercosur agreement is a simple declaration of intent that contrasts with the reality of how the mercosur countries produce their food. mercosur not only endangers the economic fabric of the punished producing areas of the european union, but it also shows the absolute incoherence of the european union in talking about the green deal and the sustainability of agriculture.
madam president, last week they presented their proposal for a european green deal to this parliament. we have found many questions and contradictions in it. one of the main issues is free trade agreements, such as the one they now intend to ratify with mercosur, which shapes the european union's trade policy. there are many well-founded criticisms of this agreement by environmental organizations, agricultural unions and human rights defenders in europe and latin america; an agreement which, among other things, provides for the movement of goods between the two continents worth 88 billion euros, with their corresponding co2 emissions; the intensification of meat production, associated with the deforestation of the amazon; the use of pesticides banned in the european union for agricultural production. and of course, this agreement inevitably serves to normalize the human rights violations of the fascist bolsonaro. we doubt that this fits into policies that seek sustainability and emission reduction. they say their european green deal is to leave no one behind, but we wonder if what they want is to leave no one behind for any of the big companies that are destroying the planet.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, we express our deep concern about the statements of human rights organizations in xinjiang and the serious information about the china cables, and we call for a thorough investigation and accountability. our group is always against the violation of human rights anywhere in the world, and is also in favour of defending the right to protest in an increasingly authoritarian world. the european union cannot have a system which is designed to impose its positions without dialogue and without resorting to multilateral bodies, and that is why we are denouncing today the united states' sanctions plans, such as the blackmail with tariffs to which we are subjected. the united states is not the best place to talk about curtailing freedoms. at a time of such great geopolitical change, at a time of trade war, we do not need more sanctions, but dialogue, multilateralism and guarantees of respect for human rights. the use of fundamental rights as a tool for geopolitical attack is all too common in this parliament and today, on international migrants day, i would like to take this opportunity, as a european, to apologize for not having lived up to the expectations and to recall something that is obvious: no human being is illegal.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i thank the honourable members very much for their contributions. i conclude that the majority, if not to say the unanimity, of this house is strongly concerned with the situation in xinjiang and calls on china to drastically change its policies in the region including, in particular, the use of political re-education camps and widespread surveillance. the legitimate and necessary global fight against terrorism should happen guaranteeing the respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms. allow me to express my appreciation for your attention and support in maintaining this important issue high on the eu agenda, and in the international arena also because, let me tell you that china is actively promoting the narrative about successes in combating terrorism in xinjiang and is obtaining strong support from many countries, including the members of the organization of the islamic conference. let me give an example. at the united nations general assembly, a group of 22 countries, among them several european member states, released a joint statement on their views about the uyghur population which was immediately countered by a statement by 54 countries, led by belarus, praising china’s counter-terrorism activities in the region. so as you can see, worldwide, it is not so clear for the international community. we europeans are strongly committed on this issue. i think we can say that we are a strong power in the defence of human rights. we have been firmly expressing our concerns about xinjiang including, as i said, the use of surveillance. we have rules on the export control of dual-base goods and technology, which should allow us to monitor exports in key technologies and check them for security concerns. for sure, we have raised concerns about reports of forced labour since 2018 as part of our annual rights dialogue with china, as well as in bilateral meetings with them. we have told our companies that they have to promote the respect of human rights and the application of corporate social responsibility through the entire supply chain. about sanctions, it’s true that the americans have been very much active in imposing sanctions on chinese officials – 28 chinese government institutions and companies – for their role in xinjiang. we haven’t done it; we have a different system. you know that i am trying to improve it by launching the initiative that could allow us to approve something equivalent to the magnitsky act. we will inform you about the work we have already started. i need unanimity in the council in order to do such a thing. i will fight for it. we have to be strong in front but also we have to continue dialogue. dialogue cannot be forgotten. both things are perfectly compatible, but i only want you to be sure of the strong engagement that we have on this issue and i count on the support of the european parliament.
in writing. by awarding this year's sakharov prize, the european parliament stands behind ilham tohti and recognises his courageous commitment to dialogue and understanding and his contribution to raising awareness of the status of the uyghurs in china. at the same time, this is an important signal that the european parliament takes the shocking situation of the uyghur minority in china very seriously. we call for the immediate release of ilham tohti, as well as all other people currently detained in china for peacefully exercising their right to freedom of expression.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, the political deadlock and the dire economic situation in venezuela are having a devastating impact in the country. the figures are shocking: more than 21% of the population suffer from malnutrition; 25% are surviving on humanitarian assistance. there are many, many figures – most of you know them – that show how big this crisis is; one that has left 70% of children without access to regular education. the shortage of essential medicines, electricity and water supply – even if it has been restored in most parts of caracas – a large part of the country continues to suffer from regular blackouts. the eu has been lending humanitarian support. the commission has established a permanent presence in the country to better monitor the situation. we have provided more than eur 170 million since 2018 – and around eur 320 million including member state assistance – both inside venezuela and in the neighbouring countries. around two—thirds of the immediate humanitarian response have been allocated for action inside venezuela, and we are the biggest humanitarian donor inside the country. the other one—third is implemented in the neighbourhood countries. in view of the limited operation capacities in the venezuelan context, the international contact group has increased its efforts on humanitarian diplomacy in order to further access an operating space for humanitarian actors in the country. this is the most important population movement in recent american history. every day, about 5000 venezuelans leave their country. five million venezuelans have already left. more precisely, the number of venezuelan migrants and refugees in latin american and caribbean countries has increased to almost 4 million people right now. the united nations organisation estimates that this amount can still increase to 4 million, and it could reach 5 million by the end of next year. i would like to praise the countries in the region for their remarkable efforts in welcoming venezuelan migrants and refugees, but the overall need to help them is increasing. the united nations has called for a regional response plan that reflects the growing funding requirements, which will double compared with last year to reach more than usd 1.3 billion. the numbers are overwhelming and we can see, in some cases, patience wearing thin in some of the countries refusing this big flow of people. we, the european union – together with our member states – need to keep the momentum created by the international solidarity conference held in brussels in october. there was not a big answer from the point of view of the resources collected: we have to call for another one in order to bring resources to face this problem. but, no matter how much we dig into our solidarity coffers, our resources will never be enough to address a crisis of this magnitude. we cannot feed millions of people every day. venezuela remains a wealthy country, and despite the deep poverty it has thrown its people into, it has one of the largest stock of natural resources. it also has substantive financial assets, many of which are abroad. surely those could contribute to relieving the suffering of their citizens, because i doubt that the world’s solidarity can bring the amount of money needed to help such a big amount of people on a continuous way. so, i think we must look for creative solutions to mobilise any kind of resources to address this enormous crisis, and i hope that in the near future we will think about new ideas that we should consider in order to break the current political impasse, and to face this humanitarian crisis as a political issue. on that final point, i’ll be clear: the only real long—lasting solution to the multi-dimensional crisis in venezuela can be achieved through a peaceful, democratic and venezuelan-grown process, leading to free and fair presidential elections. but we cannot wait for a political solution to face what is going to be one of the biggest crises from the point of view of migration and from the point of view of the well—being of the people.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, the high representative has just said that there is a solution to migration in venezuela. it's getting out of this regime and back to democracy again. the tentacles of dictator nicolás maduro are once again trying to annihilate the only legitimate power in venezuela, the national assembly. in the last few hours many parliamentarians have been accused, illegally persecuted, exiled and stripped of their immunity, to prevent this body and its president, juan guaidó, recognized by this parliament, from continuing the fight to regain democracy. it is shameful to see the usurping government elected to the human rights council at the united nations, turning this organization into a puppet of torturing tyrants who can delegitimize its mandates, its missions and investigations into crimes against humanity, while mrs bachelet denounces the continuation of these abuses. the total disregard for the dignity of his people has caused the migration of over 4.5 million people in recent years. 20% of that country has left their land in search of a better future - one in five inhabitants. it is estimated that there are some 300,000 venezuelans in spain today. this puts the country at the head of the european union in asylum applications. the european parliament can reverse this situation and end this dictatorship with proper leadership from the high representative, and lift sanctions on those responsible for the continued violations of human rights. and i regret, in particular, that it is seen as the newspaper el mundo said this morning the venezuelan political spectrum that is handed only to maduro or trump. i think it's much more complex.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr josep borrell, high representative, we have spoken today about the humanitarian situation in venezuela, the suffering of venezuelans and, of course, especially the enormous impact it has on the region, in latin america, in the form of refugees and migration. i would like to give - as has been done here today - some figures on what is happening in venezuela today. 82% of the population lacks regular access to water, 53% suffer from supply cuts, the country lacks 90% of medicines. eleven million venezuelans, eleven, are in need of humanitarian aid. among them, many are outside the country - 80% of the displaced in the region, in latin america - and 35% of the entire population. this is why there is talk of a massive exodus, unparalleled in the region, one of the largest on the planet. 4.5 million venezuelans, people, with a huge impact -- as has been well emphasized here -- in a long list of countries. i would like to highlight colombia, but there are others, ecuador, peru, argentina, chile, who also have to make a huge effort, when they have a workload, problems to attend to very important. we want to appeal to the international community and the european union to take action and, above all, to provide financial support to a crisis that requires it. the united nations has estimated the needs of venezuelans, both inside and outside the country, at 2 billion. this year, unfortunately, only 25% of this sum has been collected. that is why we are calling for a political, negotiated and democratic solution for the country. we ask, as the high representative mogherini did last autumn, that the reality of venezuelan refugees and migrants be made visible. we ask that initiatives such as 'oil for food' be explored, as the high representative has said. and we ask that it not be punished with measures - like those taken by other countries - with sanctions that affect the entire population to some venezuelans who already suffer from a regime that punishes them sufficiently.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, high representative, 4.6 million venezuelans have had no choice but to flee their country. estimates for 2020 are as high as eight million, well above the displacement in syria. the difference between the two? syria is a country torn by war; venezuela is not. but the conditions that venezuelans suffer on a daily basis are not much different from those in an active conflict zone. what is happening in venezuela is a tragedy. and even more so because it was completely avoidable. the economic and humanitarian crisis has been the result of the regime's policies and its reluctance to admit guilt and thus deny the existence of the problem. the european union must continue to offer all the support it can to alleviate the humanitarian crisis. but if the political crisis is not resolved internally, the humanitarian crisis will not end. the european union's policy towards venezuela must continue to be to put pressure on the maduro regime to sit down and negotiate a peaceful transition. as i have said time and again, the most effective tool for doing this is targeted sanctions against regime officials, and that is why we must expand the list of targeted sanctions.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, when you hear the european union's high representative, the impression is that the situation in venezuela is due to a natural disaster. the same thing happens when you hear the socialist party. really, you have to go to the causes of the tragedy - this immense tragedy that we have - and see that the causes are the regime, are a socialist chavista regime that has created misery in the richest country in america. the venezuelan regime has just launched an operation to detain members of the national assembly ―including juan guaidó― to prevent his reelection. i mean, the repression continues, which is the cause itself. no less than 6 800 extrajudicial executions by the venezuelan police have been documented in 14 months, 6 800 extrajudicial executions in 14 months. thousands of detainees have suffered unspeakable torture and sexual violence. but mr borrell insists that he does not want even one-off sanctions against the leadership of this criminal regime, which has caused the greatest humanitarian catastrophe in peacetime america. mr borrell said in an interview today that we must be realistic, that things are as they are. if maduro doesn't want to leave, we have a problem, he says. not one, mr. borrell, we have many problems. tyrants never leave voluntarily. venezuelans are fleeing and dying and dying by the thousands and the european union is sinking. it is based on an immoral indolence, which is what we have, this passivity that makes us all accomplices in this tragedy.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, one has to ask why, after all this time, the approach followed by both the european union and the united states has not solved any of the problems currently facing venezuela. in a situation of crisis and great polarization, the european union, making an irresponsible follow-up to trump's policy, rushed to recognize the self-proclaimed guaidó. and i want to remind you that international law, for more than four centuries, does not recognize governments, it recognizes states, as those who have political and administrative control of the territory, something that clearly guaidó did not have. the consequence is that the political crisis is still raging and the social crisis is being maintained and aggravated by the sanctions imposed. recognizing guaidó was useless. sanctions against the venezuelan government are seriously harming the population. the european union can and must be a mediator. we have an opportunity next year, when there will possibly be legislative elections. let us work so that they can be held with guarantees, with all the political parties, without previous boycotts, and so that they serve to close a period of instability, external interference and internal military coup attempts that have only served to harm the people of venezuela.
madam president, venezuela is experiencing a real humanitarian emergency. 4.5 million people have had to leave their country, 6 million may end up leaving venezuela in 2020, 5,000 people a day leave their country. and this situation is not caused by a war situation, nor by a natural and unexpected event. it has a leader with names and surnames: his name is nicolás maduro and a regime that protects him. and a diet. and in that situation, what can we do? something as simple as returning democracy to venezuela. yes, i say that simply. because all the rest of it, simply, is going to chronicle this situation. and what the citizens of venezuela need to hear is a clear and distinct voice from the commission and from this parliament saying to them: we are going to get democracy back in venezuela. because in venezuela there are extrajudicial executions, in venezuela politicians are persecuted, there are political prisoners, indigenous communities are murdered. those of you who are so passionate about human rights, do you know what's going on? that while some here in this bench look the other way, most of us will look the dictator in the face and say, we're gonna finish you.
madam president, esteemed high representative, as has been said here, venezuela and the region are suffering from one of the greatest humanitarian crises of our time. of course, this is only expected to get worse as the months go by if a political solution is not found in the end. i think there are two possible analyses: firstly, of course, the international community must be much more involved, much more resources are needed, because we are talking, moreover, about a crisis that is already on the same level, in terms of the number of displaced persons, as the crisis, for example, that is being experienced in syria; but, on the other hand, as has also been said here - and i think all the parties involved have acknowledged this - we will have to solve the situation politically if we want to stop the humanitarian tragedy itself. and i believe that there is no other way to find a negotiated solution and a peaceful solution for free elections than, in the end, to recognize that there are two sides, and to recognize the other side. and in that sense, it is not a question of undoing what we have done, but of looking for alternative scenarios. and this is not solved by a lot of punches to the chest; it's not solved by a lot of bragging; it's not solved by more sanctions probably. he's got a lot of nerve. yes, courage has been called for here, and i, mr high representative, ask for courage. i know that you are brave, and i ask this institution to be brave too so that we can finally get out of this impasse in which venezuela is and help the people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that the media attention has been focused on other latin american countries where the social situation has deteriorated to the point of violent clashes between the population and the police, the situation in venezuela has not improved and is still, without a doubt, the most worrying of these crises. venezuelans continue to suffer more and more from the consequences of an economic crisis that is unprecedented in the history of the country, or in that of latin america. a situation of chronic crisis whose end is hard to see and to which has been added a further very serious political crisis. colleagues, it is time to overcome ambiguity and opportunism and work together to bring immediate relief and help to the venezuelan people who live every day in an emergency crisis due to the collapse of public services, food and medicine shortages. it is a priority to coordinate our support to the 16 countries affected by the venezuelan migration crisis and which have taken in the 4.5 million venezuelans who have been forced to emigrate. the international solidarity conference held in brussels at the end of october is an important step forward alongside the quito process and demonstrates the potential of the eu when it acts in a cohesive and consistent way. we are not going to vote for the report.
vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, thank you very much. one after another, you have brought up a situation which is well known. it's obvious we have a political problem, you don't have to convince me. but i personally have a problem with my conscience, and i imagine many of you may have a problem with yours. because, obviously, despite all that we can say about the maduro regime, this country is deprived of the opportunity to assert its economic resources. since 2017, sanctions have prevented venezuela from exporting 400,000 barrels per day of its oil, or $8 billion, four times the amount of food imports. and if this continues, and if oil revenues fall another 60 percent as predicted, there will be 300,000 more people who will not have access to food, to medicine. you'd have to be blind not to notice. the number of migrants, of people leaving, has a cause: it is that the country cannot use its resources. this in no way excuses political criticism of the maduro regime. this is no excuse at all, but it is clear that, however communist the dictator may be, the impact of sanctions cannot be denied, and that the political crisis is accompanied by a humanitarian crisis, to which we cannot expect the international community to provide charitable resources to provide a solution. because it's not possible to feed tens of millions of people every day. no way to get humanitarian resources for that. the political problem is one, and no one has to convince me that everything must be done to ensure that there are elections in venezuela. i don't need any lessons about it. but we shouldn't deny a reality either. and many of you have said it: we must find solutions to deal with a gigantic humanitarian crisis, as a consequence of economic asphyxia. parliament has said so. you have voted resolutions here where you say that no sanction can be applied to harm the people of venezuela. that's what you voted for. and that is why the european union has not applied economic sanctions against the people of venezuela, but against its leaders. and if you need more, more. but against the leaders. you cannot hope to solve venezuela's crisis by condemning its population to mass starvation. it is a serious political problem that we must face politically, but we cannot close our eyes to the need - and many have said so - to seek solutions that replace humanitarian aid that the international community will not provide. because we're not going to collect $1.5 billion in donations, which is what's needed for that, when until now the contributions are of the order of ten times less that amount. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we are dealing with a problem of an immense human dimension. the problem is not that the dictator is a communist. the problem is that this country is facing a political situation to which we must respond as we are doing, and i believe that europe has mobilized its diplomatic and political energies to do so, but we cannot close our eyes to the fact that measures are being taken contrary to what you voted for. measures are being taken that will dramatically harm the people of venezuela. that, believe me, is not going to be the solution. that's not gonna be the solution. the solution must be sought in the attempt to use europe's diplomatic and political resources, in full cooperation and collaboration with mrs bachelet. nothing i say is the responsibility of the venezuelan regime, but i think it would be a mistake for us to think that the migratory flows will decrease if the country continues to be in a situation of economic asphyxia.
in writing. in history, venezuela, a country that has gone from being the richest country in latin america to a poverty rate of 94% in 20 years and whose capital caracas is the most dangerous in the world, is undoubtedly a borderline case. worse, it could eventually empty itself of its inhabitants, with venezuelans making up the largest contingent of migrants in the world, ahead of syrians - the un estimates that the country could have lost 25% of its population by the end of 2020. the blame lies with the socialist-inspired policies, but also with the us sanctions which are primarily aimed at the civilian population. however, let us not be naive to see in juan guaido anything other than the candidate of atlanticism, which does not take away anything from everything that the authoritarianism of a nicolas maduro has that is more reprehensible. the crisis also highlights once again the inability of the european union to assert itself on the international stage, at a time when russia, china and the united states are in charge. yet events in venezuela should have given him the opportunity to make his own unique voice heard in world affairs.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, the situation in nicaragua remains of great concern and is unsustainable. the eu position has been consistent since the beginning of the crisis. our policy is to support a peaceful, negotiated and, above all, democratic solution. as in the case of venezuela, only the nicaraguan people can choose their leaders and representatives in a free and fair election in line with international standards. here we can say it’s actually the same thing as in venezuela, and the government must respect and protect the human rights and freedoms of the people. we established this position last january when, just ahead of the visit by the european parliament to managua, the foreign affairs council underlined its readiness to use all policy instruments to contribute to a peaceful, negotiated way out of the crisis and to react to the further deterioration of human rights. at the beginning of this year, the nicaraguan government accepted to seek a negotiated way out and sign two agreements on the liberation of prisoners and the re—establishment of political freedoms. but it is clear that the government has failed to live up to these commitments. most prisoners were indeed freed, but many were arrested again immediately afterwards. political freedoms were not re—established. reacting to these negative signals, the foreign affairs council adopted a framework for individual targeted sanctions on 14 october. this, concretely, means prohibiting the entry into european union territory and freezing the assets of people or organisations who have taken a key role in the numerous human rights abuses carried out by the regime. our sanctions are individual, reversible and, above all, designed not to harm the nicaraguan population as parliament asked. there are three main areas in which tangible progress needs to be made in order to create the conditions for a peaceful and democratic exit from the crisis. they have stemmed from the commitments undertaken by the government itself – we are not requiring anything else – that fulfil these agreements. we have consistently repeated these in public and private, including as a part of the council conclusions last october, and they are in line with the recommendations of the high—level commission and of the organization of american states. first, re—establishment of political freedoms and the legal status of banned civil society organisations, as well as the release of the remaining political prisoners without charges. second, full cooperation with and the return of international human rights bodies to nicaragua, including the office of the high commissioner for human rights and the inter-american commission on human rights. third, an agreement on electoral reform between the government and the opposition, including the civic alliance. this agreement should guarantee fair and transparent elections, according to international standards, and be in line with the european union electoral observation recommendation. we are ready to support with expertise and eventually with an electoral observation mission. the european union stands with the nicaraguan people and recalls that repression needs to stop and respect for the constitutional rights of all nicaraguans must be re—established, including the right to liberty and the freedoms of expression, assembly, religion and peaceful protest. that’s what i want to again stress today in front of the members of this parliament, hoping, i’m sure, that with your support you can apply more pressure in order to fulfil these requirements.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i welcome and applaud the words of the high representative. the crisis in nicaragua began with the high concentration of power in the hands of the ortega family, the repression of the opposition, civil society, journalists and society in general. the strangulation of democracy and the rule of law is marked by impunity and the glorification of human rights violations. let us remember today that it is not only the nationals who suffer from its scourges, but also europeans. this chamber has closely followed the case of amaya coppens, a belgian student arrested in 2018 for participating in peaceful demonstrations against the human rights violations committed by that regime. and today he is back in prison for assisting women in hunger strike. as we mark the tenth anniversary of the charter of fundamental rights and celebrate that europe is the cradle of respect for them, we must bear in mind the people who defend the foundations of our european way of life and are imprisoned for it. parliament cannot forget the european citizens who suffer at the hands of cruel dictatorships, accused of spreading our values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality and all fundamental rights. amaya coppens is unfortunately not the only one, and for her and many others we must raise europe's voice until they are freed.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr borrell, i share and support your speech and your approach, as necessary and realistic. i would like to remind you that in 1979 the people of nicaragua fought and died for freedom, for democracy, for dignity, against the somoza dictatorship. i was there and i remember the absolutely fundamental support of felipe gonzález's spanish socialist workers' party. forty years later it is tragic that this people have to fight and die for the same thing again, and this time against a new liberticide, that of the ortega-murillo marriage. yesterday it was the national guard, today it is the political police, the armed gangs that bleed the streets of the cities in nicaragua. the reports from human rights watch, amnesty international, the organization of american states, the united nations, the messeni, are absolutely heartbreaking, they are devastating. because in nicaragua there is no democracy, no justice, no human rights, basic principles which cannot be excluded from our conscience and solidarity. the main groups in this parliament have therefore agreed on a joint resolution without amendments. only those who put their ideological boundaries ahead of universal human rights have been excluded, have excluded themselves. we reiterate our solidarity with those who are detained, tortured, disappeared and with the entire nicaraguan people. but let's move from the talk to the action. the european union-central america association agreement, which is now being implemented, is based on democratic behaviour and, therefore, the motion for a resolution to be voted on tomorrow has several essential points: to promote a democratic solution, through reliable elections, which means a fundamental reform of the system and of the so-called justice system, which today is perfectly in place of the presidential marriage; the sending of a delegation of the european parliament to nicaragua - i was already in the first one, with ramón jáuregui, an exemplary person -; that the european commission establishes without delay the list of persons to be sanctioned; and that the suspension procedure regulated in article 355 of the association agreement be opened for nicaragua.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, over the past few months the nicaraguan population has been facing government repression. there have been numerous violations of human rights and the rule of law. hundreds of people have been illegally detained for peaceful protest action against the government, among them the belgian amaya coppens. we are dismayed by the human rights violations committed by the authorities, and we call on the nicaraguan government to immediately stop the repression against its population. all political detainees should be released and democratic and fair elections should be held as soon as possible. our diplomats in nicaragua should continue making efforts to reconcile the different actors in the country and supporting civil society movements, but without taking a dominant position. as our resolution is a compromise between different parties, there are issues which are important for us greens which weren’t included in the common text. i am thinking, for example, of the responsibility of european companies and their role in stabilising this questionable government. we need transparency about the current activities of european companies in nicaragua and the due diligence measures taken by them. in the event of complicity in human rights violations, they have to be held accountable. as chair of the central america delegation, i would really like to thank all the colleagues and advisers who have contributed to this resolution. it is an important and strong message of solidarity to the people in nicaragua facing violations of their fundamental rights.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, mr borrell, the brutality of the socialist regime of daniel ortega in nicaragua continues to take its tragic toll of death and terror. and all the warnings so far, the resolutions, all the admonitions that have been made from the outside to the regime to stop this spiral of mass violence against human rights have been useless. i mean, none of the warnings have worked. we continue to have, now we have in this last crisis, hundreds of deaths, mass torture, extrajudicial executions, rapes. in fact, the same scenario that we have had in the great repressions in venezuela, in the moments of venezuela. because, in reality, they are two parallel regimes, they are two identical regimes, they are two regimes governed by the same cruel and brutal arbitrariness, which is what governs and is directed from cuba. and you're turning your back on this evidence continuously, that it's cuba, from there and from venezuela, where nicaragua is protected and where this criminal arbitrariness that we're seeing in ibero-america now is really protected. thank you very much and i hope you react.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, denouncing the violence and repression against the popular movement by the ortega-murillos must never mean playing into the hands of the representatives of nicaragua's economic elites. this parliament must support a political solution which involves the release of political prisoners, the cessation of violence and the recognition of the role of the social movements in the negotiations. let us not be mistaken, when many members of this house criticize ortega, they are not concerned about human rights, but about the economic interests of european multinationals. when we criticise the situation in nicaragua, what we are advocating is solidarity with the social demands in the construction of a change, with a constituent vocation, that recovers the spirit of the sandinista revolution, which generated so many hopes among the popular classes of the whole world.
mr president, mr high representative, tomorrow we are going to vote on a resolution in which the members of this house again denounce the serious violations of human rights in nicaragua. unfortunately, the situation has not improved, but on the contrary, even endangering the rule of law. these figures are certainly alarming. more than 80 000 people have been forced to leave nicaragua; about 300 have been killed; hundreds have been arbitrarily detained; hundreds of students have been expelled from the university; hundreds of journalists have had to leave the country because of the repression to which the nicaraguan government is subjecting them. the situation facing civil society and the democratic opposition in nicaragua is unsustainable. what else must happen before we can impose sanctions on those who violate human rights and democracy in a partner country of the european union, by means of an association agreement? mr president, you are well aware of the deplorable situation of the nicaraguan people and how the conditions of their democracy are deteriorating. if not, you can ask the church's secretary of state, who has been denied entry. we do not want to disappoint the people of nicaragua and that is why we call for the immediate and unconditional release of those detained for political reasons, for the cessation of the harassment of the opposition and for the guarantee of the exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms.
mr president, nine months after the last resolution adopted by this parliament on nicaragua, the situation in the country has not improved, quite the contrary. the regime's repression has increased and the freedoms of citizens have continued to be curtailed. in the face of this deterioration, the european parliament must send a clear message. the human rights violations against nicaraguans must stop immediately. we all agree that in this resolution we must go one step further and take a tougher position, because we have stressed the regime enough in previous resolutions and now we must act. the european union should therefore start applying the necessary individual sanctions immediately to put more direct pressure on the regime. still, i think it would not be wise to cut off all contact with the nicaraguan government. electoral reform, fair and guaranteed elections and an end to repression will only come through dialogue. and european diplomacy can play a very important role in restoring the dialogue. we press the regime, but we don't close the doors on ourselves. let's be smart and make our action useful.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, welcome to this house and thank you for your time today on all these human rights violations. i, on behalf of the socialist and democratic group, take up your position, your speech, which was complete and detailed and also consistent, in condemning and rejecting what has happened in iran since last november. i would therefore just add a few elements to what the high representative has said. first, let's remember that these demonstrations are probably the biggest that have been experienced in four decades of the current regime in iran. the demonstrations, as has been said, have not been able to take place peacefully and in which conflicting reports from the united nations and amnesty international have shown that at least 300 people have been killed and 7 000 have suffered non-fatal injuries. many of these protesters - it has also been said - have been arbitrarily detained, may face death sentences and, in addition, are denied basic rights, such as informing their relatives about their whereabouts and health status, as well as assistance with effective legal defense. the digital blackout has been mentioned by the high representative himself. i believe that the resolution which this parliament is voting on tomorrow is a necessary initiative, which we hope will support and contribute to the work you are doing in this area. the voice of the european union and of this parliament must be heard. the iranian government's reaction has been extremely violent and could be the beginning of a more oppressive cycle in the near future. we must not lose sight of the fact that this is a state of enormous importance and indispensable, with which we need to have a dialogue. we are confident that, with you at the helm, the union's foreign policy will be up to the task.
mr president, first of all i would like to condemn the tremendous repression being carried out by the islamic regime of the ayatollahs in iran. we are talking about repression which, according to data which are contradictory because the regime has tried to cover up and conceal what it was doing against the civilian population, has resulted in over a thousand deaths, over seven thousand detainees, according to the united nations, and even 12 murdered minors. a tremendous crackdown. a repression that, as i said, the regime has tried to silence at all costs, as well as to evade its responsibility, even blaming third nations for it. we're talking about the internet being shut off to over 80 million iranians. the media has also been banned from filming in the streets and, of course, the united states, saudi arabia or israel have been blamed for the social unrest. today, from here, from the european parliament, what we want to say to the citizens of iran, to the iranians, is that you are not alone. it is not only young people who are calling for their freedom and rights in the streets. women are not alone in protesting every wednesday over the compulsory veil. homosexuals are not alone. journalists are not alone. and it's not just the human rights activists who are imprisoned. i would also like to stress the importance of consistency in defending human rights in this house and appeal to certain sectors of the left who apparently defend human rights in a different way depending on where these violations are taking place, and to appeal to us to be forceful. that is why i want to say that the motion for a resolution which we are going to vote on tomorrow seems to me to be a poor resolution and i appeal to the high representative to move from mere condemnation to sanctions.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a welcome step towards the creation of a european union directive on carcinogens and mutagens. that's for sure. mrs anderson, the problem is that there are those who use anti-mutilation discourse to fuel racism and islamophobia out of a moral superiority and an ethnocentrism and a cultural imperialism which shame us as europeans. we're talking about a practice that's not just in africa. sometimes they want to stigmatize an entire continent and criminalize the migrants who come from there. female genital mutilation also occurs in the middle east, east asia, and latin america. and in the last century it was even given in europe and the united states to cure invented diseases like female hysteria. there they are. and yes, it is a religious practice, but not only of muslim communities, but also of coptic christians and some jews who do, by the way, a macho interpretation of the koran and the bible, where it is not contemplated. let's not kid ourselves. the far right and the extreme right in europe do not care about girls and women who are victims of mutilation. what matters to them is the crusade for their particular understanding of christianity. that is why they can pursue this practice and in turn oppose the istanbul convention, which is the only framework from which it is possible to put an end to it.
madam president, the figures in this report are terrible and they probably only reflect reality partially and incompletely. if we look at the wider reality, we see that, in addition to genital mutilation, most of the so-called cultural practices make women and girls their victims. we are talking about polygamy, forced marriages or within prohibited degrees of kinship, selective abortion, the laceration of various body parts, the withdrawal of girls from certain areas of education, such as sports or activity with boys, or the imposition of extreme dress and concealment codes. all these practices show that the multicultural model - which is certainly overrated - is built, to a large extent, on the disregard for the rights of women and girls. we have a duty to prevent and detect, a duty which falls primarily on the school, the health and social services. we have an obligation to ensure that these practices do not go unpunished. the council has also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the immediate ratification of the istanbul convention and calls on all member states to introduce extraterritorial prosecution of this crime. and we have an obligation to assist the victims. in asylum procedures, yes, and for those who are already in our territory, assist them by applying the protection systems and specific protocols for the treatment of violence against women. tolerating, looking the other way, condemning only verbally, is not respecting other cultures, it is simply denying the protection of the law, denying equality and attacking the dignity of women.
author. mr president, the sahel region is in the midst of a very serious human rights crisis. terrorist attacks are on the rise, and climate change is causing severe droughts and chronic hunger. in burkina faso, up to december, four times as many civilians had been killed as in all of 2018. the european union's approach to the sahel has so far had two components: the first, securing, understanding security simply as a defensive issue, security that is not improving, and the second component, containing african migration that uses the sahel as a route to reach our shores. we are failing to implement a real security and human rights policy. security does not depend on the soldiers we send, it depends, fundamentally, on the justice we promote. to do that, we need to change trade and economic policies, anchored in a post-colonial model; we need global debt and taxation policies; we need to change a global agri-food model that prevents farmers from living in the countryside right now; we need a gender focus in peace and security building policies, and to really bet on democracy by supporting and strengthening civil society and its demands against the economic interests, many of them european, that are sustaining this situation.
mr president, unfortunately the case we are condemning today, the attack on a christian church in burkina faso, is not an isolated case. in recent years we have been experiencing a real religious persecution of christians, not only in burkina faso, but also in nigeria, afghanistan, somalia, sri lanka and many other countries. it is a religious persecution - let's be clear - by islamist terrorists against christians. they are being murdered in cold blood for the mere fact of professing a faith. the data speaks for itself and it's chilling. according to a report by the organization open doors, in 2018 more than 4,000 christians were killed for the mere fact of professing their faith, 3,125 were arrested and more than 1,800 churches were attacked. ladies and gentlemen, let us not be deceived, especially those who so strongly defend multiculturalism. these attacks are attacks on everything that the west and the european union stand for, they are attacks on our values, on our way of life; in short, attacks on our freedom. we cannot remain passive.
madam president, the new measures of the kremlin of 2 december are further restricting the freedoms of russian citizens and all independent organizations. the "foreign agents" laws of 2012 and 2015 already allowed to prosecute any foreign organization or russian organization with relations abroad whose activities were not liked by the power. with the new enlargements, in fact, no one in russia can have contacts abroad that cannot be used administratively or criminally against him. in other words, the repression in this field is already very similar to that in force in the soviet union, under the communist dictatorship before 1985, when perestroika and gorbachev arrived. it is tragic that this anti-democratic invasion is also in breach of all russia's commitments in the international arena and its treaties. we therefore ask president putin not to condemn russia to this further delay imposed by isolation.
