in writing. now that the uk parliament has rejected the withdrawal agreement and the political declaration, the uk government and parliament need to tell the eu what kind of relationship they want with the eu. the withdrawal agreement is the best and only possible compromise within the 'red lines' set by the uk. it creates legal certainty where brexit creates uncertainty. the eu does not accept any change to the established guidelines concerning the peace process and the border on the island of ireland or citizens' rights. in the uk, a cross-party agreement is needed to achieve a majority for both the solution of the impasse and the possible redevelopment of the 'red lines'.
mr president, i think john donne’s words, also immortalised by ernest hemingway – ‘don’t ask for whom the bell tolls; it tolls for you’ – should be in front of our eyes while debating today. indeed, totalitarianism can come in different colours: left, right, fascist, nazis, bolshevik, trotskyist, whatsoever. but the important thing is that we need to recognise it and deal with it when it’s a little seed, not just a grown-up blossoming tree. as usual, i’m a little bit ahead of my time. a month ago i published a book by a great estonian author who knows how to recognise a totalitarianist. his name was enn sarv. he was a prisoner in le struthof because he was an enemy of das reich and later he was in the gulag because he was an enemy of the soviet people. he taught me a lot and i hope i have taught you a bit in this one minute.
mr president, 10 years ago this parliament concluded that europe will not be really united unless it is able to reunite its history, to recognise communism and nazism as a common horrible legacy. this november, we’re going to mark 30 years since the demolition of the berlin wall. however, a mental berlin wall still divides us. the victims of communism still belong to the second category. they lack an internationally binding commitment to ‘never again’, and all european public awareness of what happened in the eastern part of europe after world war ii is still alarmingly superficial and inadequate. the european parliament also insisted on what should be done, and i would like to recall some points: public debate on the nature of totalitarian systems; updating european history textbooks – i think the commission can coordinate this job – and marking 23 august as a common day of remembrance of all victims of totalitarian systems.
in writing. often, we celebrate past accomplishments and try to suppress painful memories. the power of totalitarian regimes in europe is one such painful memory. but remembering the painful memories helps us move forward and ensure that authoritarian forces never regain power. my home country estonia suffered under the communism of the soviet union and it is therefore of particular importance to me and to my fellow citizens that both fascist and communist regimes are addressed in the remembrance of the past of totalitarian regimes and in the teaching of history. there must be no room for stalinist nostalgia in the western cultural space, because we would not approve of nostalgia for the fascist past. education has a key role to play here, and that is why the european union must contribute both to teaching the past of totalitarian regimes and to academic research into it. the updating of school history textbooks also requires european union coordination. educating our citizens is particularly important at this time, as populist movements of all kinds continue to gather support across europe.
president of the european investment bank. – madam president, it’s a great pleasure to address the plenary for a second time this evening and to discuss what the eib group, that is the european investment bank and the european investment fund, have done and will continue to do to help support europe’s economy. in particular, i’d like to highlight how we are controlling our financial activities and address some of the points in the excellent report of the budgetary control committee, for which i thank the rapporteur and the other members of the european parliament who have contributed to this. ladies and gentlemen, on 18 july 2018 we celebrated the completion of our pledge to deliver over eur 315 billion of additional investment through efsi - the juncker plan. in fact, by mid-july we had surpassed this goal, providing support to investments through the mobilisation of eur 335 billion, and we’re well on track on delivering the target of eur 500 billion by 2020. while this particular success story continues, the tasks and challenges for the bank are not diminishing – and some of them have been raised earlier in the debate. we have just discussed some of them, for instance the ramifications stemming from brexit, but these are only the most obvious ones. as the report of the budgetary control committee indicates, there are also internal challenges for the bank. i’d like to highlight two of these: reforming the governance, measuring additionality and fostering cohesion. honourable members, the eib remains at the forefront of international financial institutions when it comes to transparency standards and the quality of its governance. we follow international best practice and are aligned with other ifis. this holds true, for example, for the bank’s transparency policy, which we revised in 2015 and will revise again next year. it also applies to our policies to combat fraud and corruption, as well as to enhance accountability. in view of our dual role of delivering eu policy while also serving as a bank with high standards, we have intensified our cooperation with olaf and the european ombudsman, as well as continuing our ongoing exchange with ngos. we take their demands and recommendations very seriously, and we just had a celebration of 10 years of the complaints mechanism at the bank, together with european ombudsman, the secretary—general of the european ombudsman, and that was a very encouraging event. in february 2018, the bank put into practice its new exclusion policy, which is fully aligned with the european commission. last november, our governing bodies adopted a revised complaints mechanism policy. actors such as the european ombudsman and transparency international, as well as the input from public consultations, were a crucial part of this process. we are readying ourselves for future challenges and thereby strengthening the governance. we’re rolling out reforms to strengthen internal financing. in july, the eib board of directors agreed on a roadmap of several governance changes. a total of 14 different actions have been set in motion and will be implemented during the first half of this year. without going into too much detail, let me highlight one particular aspect that is also the focus of this year’s committee report. we will enhance our internal control and risk management environment and strengthen the three lines of defence model across the bank, both at the level of the eib management committee, as well as among the bank’s services. we will also make sure that one mc member oversees risk management and therefore will not be responsible directly for any first line activities. moreover, i would like to stress that the bank is close to finalising the revision of its code of conduct. this is an important point raised not only by previous ep resolutions, but also by our own eib audit committee. another example of how to strengthen our governance is the discussion we were having about introducing a group chief risk officer. it would be part of a revision of the eib group management charter. additional actions aim to strengthen the decision-making capacity of the board, as well as the eib supervisory framework. and finally, we are constantly revising and assessing the actual value-added that we create. let me therefore briefly touch upon my second point: additionality and cohesion. the concept of additionality is central to efsi; however, it is already central to the eib itself. if we are not needed, if the private sector can do the job, then we are redundant. so additionality is nothing new for us, but regarding efsi, we are particularly keen to show that what we do is additional indeed. as you are well aware, eligible projects must point to market failures or sub-optimal investment situations. eligibility is only the precondition, whereas additionality ensures that within such eligible operations our eib support provides a tangible contribution, and that it makes a difference. eib support must compliment support from other sources. the test of additionality is whether the intervention by the bank facilitates or strengthens an eligible project from the public welfare perspective in a way that the market alone would not deliver, at least not to the same extent or in the same timeframe. the eib is at the forefront among ifis in measuring additionality, and we are always looking to improve. the eib services have begun to recalibrate our current three pillar assessment. ladies and gentlemen, as the eu bank, we look at structural investment needs and continue to support the eu’s transition to sustainable finance and sustainable climate. therefore, our ambition to enhance growth, support employment and act as a catalyst for increased public and private sector investment remains key. we recognise that supporting innovation on the one hand, and deepening integration and cohesion on the other, are not a contradiction as they must be undertaken at the same time. only an integrated and inclusive financial and economic area can offer the required market dimensions to support innovation across europe, and only an innovative and competitive europe can provide the economic and political foundations for deeper integration and cohesion. supporting cohesion and increasing convergence remains paramount to the bank. we will continue our activities to support cohesion via a mix of products, including structured programme loans, sector-specific programme loans and transport infrastructure loans. this made up 26% of our activities in 2015 and 2016. in 2017, we channelled 29.6% of all our lending to cohesion priority regions, just short of our ambitious target of 30%. in 2018, i’m happy to announce that we exceeded this target, with 31.8% of our lending for the year in cohesion priority regions. i’m also happy to announce that the climate action signatures have reached 30.3%, far ahead of the 26% objective. some worry that we cared too little about regional coverage. admittedly, and deliberately, we do not apply regional or national quotas, but we also look at our activities through a regional lens. the example of efsi shows that geographical diversification is improving. the share of the top three member states – italy, germany and france – of the infrastructure window decreased, from 55% in october 2016 to below 40% in 2018. indeed, measured as a share of gdp, which presents a much more accurate picture, the figure is very different. for instance, it’s greece, estonia, portugal, bulgaria and lithuania which are the top five recipients of efsi financing by gdp in 2018, and that i think is a remarkably good result. ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by assuring you that the eu bank has delivered, and we will continue to deliver on its objectives. through its financial firepower, including the juncker plan, we provide a very significant contribution to jobs and growth in the eu and external action outside the european union. we are the bank of the eu, and that means we are more than the sum of our national interests and an excellent example of europe in action. we are in, a certain way, the good news institution of the european union. as the eu bank, i can assure you that we will stay unwavering in our support for the mobilisation of investment across the entire union, and we will tackle the structural investment and cohesion challenges facing europe and europe’s single market, in particular when it comes to the role of europe in the world, which is changing dramatically. (applause)
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, first i want to thank mr georgi pirinski, the rapporteur, and other members who have participated in this work. it's an excellent report. everybody knows that the european investment bank (eib) is an indispensable partner in financing infrastructure but also smes, innovations in various regions of europe, climate action, sustainable transport, artificial-related investments etc. the commission strongly supports the bank’s ambitious climate action strategy, matching the commitments of the paris agreement. increased investment, especially renewable energy, energy efficiency and the circular economy, focusing on high impact activities and products is key in achieving this objective. also, advisory services to the companies operating in relatively new areas, like the circular economy or artificial intelligence, is very much needed and there is a need to look at how well financial needs match the palate or the services which are available. the bank has the continuous challenge of checking whether the product is fit for purpose, because the economy around us is changing. in the context of brexit, we welcome the bank’s utmost efforts to ensure that its ability to achieve its financing objectives is not affected. as for the bank’s external lending activities, as we discussed under the previous point, the commission and the eib is working very closely together to find a workable solution to ensure operational predictability for the eib post 2020. it goes without saying that the eib will continue to play a significant role in promoting the eu’s interests abroad and delivering on the agenda 2030.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i am not going to assess the comparison made by the earl of dartmouth of which is more commercial, the european investment bank or deutsche bank. i just would like to say that i am happy that we don’t compare the european investment bank with danske bank, which is involved in many dubious things. still, we would love to see, despite your denial mr hoyer, what the european anti-fraud office (olaf) has said about your links to volkswagen-gate, or whatever we may call their scandal, and transparency would not hurt you, and not us either. finally, i would like to say that de-investment is great promising policy and even though mr czarnecki maybe wishes your investment into the polish coal industry we should support him as well by not investing in the non-renewable energy sector.
rapporteur. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank the ombudsman for her work. almost two years ago, she opened the inquiry on transparency in the council. she concluded that the current practice in the council constituted maladministration, especially when it comes to the failure of the council to register the positions of member states in the preparatory bodies. the recommendations she made were very reasonable, but the council did not answer. can you imagine? they just did not answer her letter. therefore, she turned to parliament to ask for support. during our first meeting on the issue, the austrian presidency promised to address the problem, or at least to provide an explanation. but now the austrian presidency is over and they never answered either. hopefully the romanian presidency will be different. transparency in the council has been a topic of discussion for 25 years, yet not many things have changed. the small victories in this area, such as access to documents and public deliberations, were pushed for by parliament and the ombudsman. this underlines our role in this house as a catalyst for change. while the council still holds on to the idea that their work is pure diplomacy, the role of the institutions has changed over time. the council and the parliament are co—legislators now. therefore, their practices should be conducted in a similar way. the parliament has become more transparent. all committee meetings, as jo leinen mentioned just now, are open and all reports, minutes and amendments are available. the positions of absolutely each and every member are clear. it is therefore a logical step that the same should apply to the council, and the coreper meetings in particular. it says clearly in the treaties that decisions should be taken as close to the citizens as possible and, especially now during these turbulent brexit times, we have to be open and we have to be as close to people as possible. this means that all institutions have the obligation to be open and transparent. it’s crucial for accountability. there is an imbalance between the co—legislators as, when the public is unhappy about an outcome, member states can easily point their finger at parliament because our decisions are known, but the public does not see that often the outcome is the result of a struggle between the parliament and the council. perhaps a member state has a very strong position, yet they blame brussels. this is problematic for parliament and also for the media and even national parliaments, who are informed too late about the decisions of their governments in the council, if at all. sometimes they are just not informed. these are the points we have focused on in this report. i would like to thank jo leinen for his good cooperation in the committee. finally, i would like to ask the chamber to support this report and send the message that this house stands for transparent democratic process.
author. – mr president, in spite of weeks of anti-government protests in sudan and calls for the resignation of sudanese president omar al-bashir, the ruling party in sudan has nominated bashir for a new term in the elections that are to be held in 2020. the ruling party national congress party (ncp) has stated that the country’s leadership will only be changed through elections. that remains to be seen. but the fact is that bashir is the only sitting head of state wanted by the international criminal court for crimes against humanity and war crimes, genocide and ethnic cleansing in darfur. yet he remains free to continue his crimes, and he is welcomed by so many states with open arms – states like china, india, qatar, saudi arabia and many others that continue to allow bashir into their countries, welcome him and support him, instead of arresting him. it is also their inaction that enables bashir to continue his crimes with impunity, attacking civilians. this is also why we are witnessing bashir’s latest actions, whereby at least 37 people have lost their lives, more than 800 have been arrested, and there is ongoing violence and oppression by the authorities. mass arrests and killings – targeting activists, human rights defenders, lawyers, doctors, teachers – bashir and his accomplices must face charges. those responsible for the crimes of the past in sudan, as well as those committed during the latest protests must be brought to justice. it is time for sudan to focus on ending the repression of human rights and resolve the economic crisis and start healing society.
author. – mr president, sudan has now been independent for 63 years. almost 30 years ago, colonel omar al—bashir came to power, suspended political parties and introduced an islamic legal code at the national level and appointed himself president in 1993. so, sudan became a one party state under the national congress party. later in the 1990s, sudan was listed as a state sponsor of terrorism by several countries. six years ago, president al—bashir promised not to seek re-election, but ran again in 2015, while the opposition boycotted the elections. as for press freedom, sudan ranks as one of the last ones, taking the 174th position on the list of 180 countries. last december, massive demonstrations erupted, first as a protest against price increases but then expanded as a broadly based movement against the authoritarian regime calling for the president al—bashir to resign. he has now been in power, as said, almost 30 years. the current death toll has reached almost 50, with hundreds of people arrested and tortured – especially sakharov prize winner salih mahmoud osman, he’s a human rights lawyer, who was once again arrested only nine days ago. his whereabouts are unknown. furthermore, sudan is classified as the fourth-worst country to be a christian in last year’s watch list by open doors international. we condemn state-endorsed persecution of christians and the closing and demolition of churches. muslims who convert to christianity faced the death penalty for apostasy. one very serious fact to keep in mind, which was mentioned just a few minutes ago, is that al–bashir is the only incumbent head of state wanted by the international criminal court for crimes against humanity, war crimes and ethnic cleansing in the darfur region. he should be seen and treated as an international pariah. the european parliament strongly condemns excessive use of force against popular protests and asks for the immediate release of salih mahmoud osman and all human rights defenders, journalists and protesters. we ask to end restrictions on access to the internet and provide for freedom of press. we call on the commission and the high representative to publicly condemn the intolerable situation in sudan, and to use all means to convince the government there to end the ongoing violence, to stop mass arrests and killings. we also call for an eu-wide ban on exports, update and maintenance of any form of security equipment, which is being used for internal repression, including internet surveillance technology. we ask the eu and member states to strengthen financial support for human rights defenders and civil society organisations under the european development fund.
in writing. i am one of three meps who have actually experienced physical violence in relation to their political views. i stress that we are facing an unprecedented situation where virtual reality could take to the streets and the halls of parliament. i mean, people don't know the difference between spitting on social media and spitting in real life anymore. not realizing that a virtual fistfight or wanting to torture someone to death isn't actually ok. but spending hours on social media has brought us all down and back to square one. jaron lanier has written a book called "10 reasons why"... it's a thought-provoking piece. and before we lecture the rest of society, let's set an example. let's delete our accounts on facebook and twitter and everywhere else. let us not seek fame, glory and "laughter" because those platforms are flat and animate us all! we're gonna lose the humanity, but the humanity is important! of course, how to reach everyone in the advertising market is a question i don't know the answer to. all we can do is close the account! protect my children and my future. let's do this if we're not on social media, the attack will be less effective. soon, the buyers of the advertising space will react and social media will be financially impoverished. i urge everyone to follow my example and delete all of your social media accounts for the public on february 24, 2019. it would be a gift to mankind from the republic of estonia on the 101st anniversary of estonia.
mr president, taiwan is a reliably functioning democracy in east asia. it is not a problem, not for beijing, not for the outside world. the problem is that mainland china, whose goal is the complete unification of taiwan, remains a communist dictatorship which is responsible for the annihilation of tens of millions of its own citizens, and which continues to repress civil rights, minorities and individual freedoms. the chinese president’s warning that beijing is not promising to renounce the use of force is ominous and deserves firm international reaction. we have to clearly support the democratic choice of 23 million taiwanese. they have proved for decades what a free society can achieve. before insisting on reunification, mainland china must reform itself into a democratic society which is finally willing and can respect the free choice of all its citizens.
in writing. the joint statement agreed by presidents trump and juncker on 25 june 2018 was aimed at preventing further escalation of tensions between the us and the eu in their trade relations. the commission's statement provides an overview of the implementation of the agreement, which has now been submitted to the european parliament and the member states, and sets out, inter alia, the commission's initial proposals and negotiating mandate. it is important that the negotiations are transparent and can continue provided that the us does not impose new tariffs or duties on eu exports. in all this, however, the important role of the us as the eu's security partner must also be borne in mind. further strains in eu-us relations must be avoided, as the us is the eu's most important partner in the world.
in writing. – tackling financial fraud is an important measure for protecting the union’s financial interests, which essentially means protecting eu taxpayers’ interests. while this objective is important in itself, the effectiveness of the eu’s approach to fighting fraud has much wider implications – namely in terms of citizens’ trust. since the legitimacy of the european project is derived from this trust, we must do our utmost to prevent and combat fraud at every level. another objective of this programme is to support and promote cooperation between administrative authorities of different member states, and cooperation between the latter and the commission. in addition to promoting the exchange of best practices, the programme will finance the anti-fraud information system, which will help tackle customs fraud. since fraud is a crime that is not directly apparent, and needs investigative work to be uncovered, it is no secret that fighting fraud also costs money. however, these expenses are legitimate and proportional, considering what is at stake. the potential benefits clearly outweigh the cost, which is minimal in the context of the union’s budget as a whole. that is why i call on the council to support the parliament’s position regarding the funding of this programme.
the eu-singapore free trade agreement is the first such bilateral trade agreement between the eu and an asean member state. the agreement focuses mainly on the removal of non-tariff barriers such as the recognition of standards, product labelling and access to public procurement; it also focuses on strengthening worker protection and environmental protection. the eu and singapore will also conclude an investment protection agreement and a partnership and cooperation agreement, which will contribute to the protection of eu investments, given the growing economic interest of eu businesses in the region. the pca also helps to create a more favourable political and economic environment both in terms of the eu's interests and by helping to promote certain areas in singapore.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, recent developments indicate that the inf treaty is likely to come to an end. this is unfortunate for its biggest beneficiary, europe. since the united states has already confirmed that russia has been in violation of the inf treaty for years and nato is also convinced that this is the case, and both the us, and later on russia, have notified their intention to withdraw from the treaty, europe might be facing another race to arms. time is of the essence, and it is imperative that russia uses this six-month period to return to full and verified compliance with the inf treaty. that is the goal. meanwhile, the possible end of the inf treaty shows us that there is a much larger problem, and that is the current state of affairs between russia and the western world. these developments indicate clearly that it is imperative to enhance cooperation between the western countries, between nato and the european union – to demonstrate the unity of the western world in response to russia and others on this issue. while the end of the treaty should be avoided by means of negotiations, it also demonstrates that the more global approach is needed on this issue, since time has moved on and there are more players in the game, like china and others. also new technologies have to be taken into account, like cyber and outer space. so, ideally, a new strategic stability framework would incorporate the essence of the imf treaty and new players both geographically, but also new technologies.
mr president, invalidation of the intermediate-range nuclear forces (inf) treaty will certainly undermine european and global security and peace. however, the real problem is that russia is introducing into europe its new missiles, capable of carrying nuclear warheads. russia has continued to do this for several years, clearly violating the inf treaty. parliament was therefore right to condemn the russian federation for continued breach of the inf treaty. still, russia has a chance, until july, to return to full and verifiable compliance. international, effective and credible arms control remains the basis of european security. however, facing aggressive disregard by russia of its commitments, there is really no other course of action for nato, in the foreseeable future, than to be united, determined and fully prepared to foil or prevent any tilting of the international security balance by countries relying primarily on force and intimidation.
mr president, our aim was, and continues to be, to eliminate an entire class of nuclear arms. indeed, i support the zero-option for all nuclear arms. as i’ve said before, my dream is to see the day when nuclear weapons will be banished from the face of the earth, who said that? ronald reagan. and like my teacher and security studies professor harald müller, i hope he will not be embarrassed, i would like to underline in today’s context that a european response is needed to the possible new arms race, in a new threatening world which doesn’t remember the balance carefully developed in the cold war. i think european defence forces should also perhaps even reply with a nuclear component. forgive me my radicalism here because putin’s russia doesn’t believe in deterrents, and thinks that the new arms race is the answer. we should show that we are ready for that and in that case, bodil, we will have total peace. if we reply with force putin will understand us, if not we’re finished. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – yes, i will only take 20 seconds. i have in mind that a joint european defence force – being ridiculed as a federalist project – should have a german commander-in-chief and an english-speaking army equipped with the most modern resources and weapons.
mr president, finally eu ministers have decided to establish an eu global human rights sanctions regime. but, to be efficient and credible, it needs joint efforts and rigorous and consistent implementation by all member states. i welcome the move to drop the unanimity rule in this area, but on the condition that it must not lead to selective implementation by those who don’t agree. implementation has to be mandatory for all. so far, progress since the 2014 european parliament decision to establish an eu magnitsky list has been alarmingly slow. only five more states have followed the us congress resolution and i think it is very important to maintain the name magnitsky, which has symbolic and universal meaning. finally, it is shameful that russia is so far not included in the money—laundering and terrorist—financing blacklist.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, allow me first of all to thank you for this extremely valuable, useful and timely exchange of views. i would like to take this opportunity to thank you again for all your speeches, comments and suggestions. today’s debate illustrates again that the possible eu global human rights sanctions regime is an interesting and necessary issue, but also a complex one meriting careful further study. as already mentioned, the current discussions are focusing on the various open questions that should be considered in order to allow for an informed political decision on the feasibility of such a proposal. discussions will continue in the council, and we stand ready to contribute to the debate constructively. a final decision will have to be taken unanimously. allow me, therefore, to express my appreciation for your attention to this highly important topic.
in writing. this resolution is a clear example of another effective instrument of the european union for the implementation of the common foreign policy. the subversion of our eastern neighbour and the interference in national politics in the member states has been made possible by the spread of a simple narrative through the use of useful idiots. distracting union citizens through information operations is also part of the kremlin's broader strategy to ensure that neither russian citizens nor the rest of the world should see the horrors that the few human rights defenders in this authoritarian state have to endure. this magnitsky act, like sanctions in general, is the best measure to counter the aggression of the russian authorities and to draw attention to the fact that in russia there are restrictions on personal freedoms. this is demonstrated by putin's nervousness and aggressive behavior towards his eu-based partners, through whom he has tried to lift sanctions or remove references to magnitsky from legal texts. but no results, and that's how it should be! of course, the name magnitsky has a significant symbolic significance in the instrument, but this does not in any way prevent the instrument from being used in other countries.
blue-card question. – mr schaffhauser, would you agree with me that comparing ms kalniete with stalinism and all sorts of things is a little bit inappropriate because, according to my knowledge, she was born in a siberian gulag? that’s the end of the question. you can answer now.
mr president, east stratcom has delivered excellent results. it has analysed and collected more than 5 000 examples of pro-kremlin disinformation. we keep demanding that east stratcom is turned into a fully-fledged structure within the european external action service with adequate financial and personnel resources. financing has finally increased but is still lagging behind exponentially growing tasks – because next to east stratcom, there’s also the western balkans stratcom and task force south. the eu action plan has an important task – to improve capabilities, enhance coordination and joint responses by eu institutions and member states, develop better cooperation with the private sector, raise public awareness and promote education on disinformation, and not least provide adequate resources. networkers and fact-checkers could be helpful in tackling disinformation, and the commission task is to coordinate their activities into the european network.
in writing. the increasingly aggressive steps by russia, china, iran and north korea to undermine the foundations of european democracy and the sovereignty of the eastern partnership countries are unacceptable and must be consistently countered. it is important to develop a legal framework at eu and international level to combat hybrid threats, including cyber and information warfare. the russian disinformation campaigns are the main source of disinformation in europe and therefore the eastern neighbourhood strategic communication task force should be rapidly transformed into a full-fledged structural unit within the european external action service to combat russian propaganda. third party interference in elections must be stopped and it is important that eu countries amend their electoral laws to take into account the potential threats posed by disinformation campaigns, cyber attacks and cybercrime.
mr president, of course i have my written prepared talking points which say that the guidelines report contains many important priorities, such as youth employment, research, as well as climate spending. the key problem is the strong emphasis on defence spending. on that sentence, i shall put away my prepared notes and say that, personally, i am different from the greens and not so worried about defence spending, because good defence can serve us quite well at a certain points in time. allow me please to speak from my heart now, and it’s perhaps not so much about budget. i would like to point out, contrary to ms ní riada and mr etheridge, who said that the commissioner was not listening, but actually mr oettinger was receiving information about brexit through his left ear, and listening to us through his right ear, so dear mr etheridge — where are you by the way, are you listening? ah, no — learn to multitask, otherwise you’ll never become a commissioner. so now i go to my budget experience and say it has been a great honour to serve on the committee on budgets, to learn from mr deprez, mr olbrycht, mr fernandes, from our great rapporteur, monika hohlmeier, and ms gardiazabal and many others. even from mr kölmel, by the way, he is a good economist, but we never actually delivered as much as we had hoped on climate change policies. and now my final point is that, on this very friday, the school strike for climate comes to estonia for the first time. my son will be among the participants, my father, a former member of this parliament’s committee on industry, research and energy, will be there and will give his support as a climatologist. where do you think i shall be? of course, i will be with them. and that is why i will go there and i will introduce the alde amendment which puts the specific nexus between future trade agreements and the paris agreement. that’s great. bravo for alde. i will finish now, i know we are late so let me just conclude. as mr deprez said it might be his last budget speech, and so might it be mine as well because, you know, times are scary, but in climate change, we will find a way and i shall not melt away as an iceberg in the antarctica, whatever anti-europeans may think.
author. – mr president, iran is one of the worst countries into the world for considering the rights and freedoms of its citizens. last year iran ranked second for the number executions – 273 of them. one may add numerous cases when a detained person was officially said to have committed suicide. also last year tens of thousands of people all over iran stood up against the rising costs of living, unpaid wages, corruption, political repressions and minority rights. they blamed the regime for wasting money on military and missiles, continuing costly expansion outside iran, while ordinary people suffered more than ever. our special concern is the fate of nasrin sotoudeh and her husband reza khandan, who just in january were sentenced to six years because of his peaceful protest against the forced wearing of hijabs, the fate of arrested environmental and trade union activists, and the fate of maryam akbari monfared, who has already spent nine years in prison for so—called anti-god activities. we call on the iranian government to release unconditionally all human rights defenders, prisoners of conscience, journalists and others. yes, we once again call, urge and ask the iranian authorities to behave and change. can we really believe that tehran’s rulers will change their behaviour, knowing very well that the regime cannot survive in conditions of free expression and an independent press? therefore we urge our high representative to publicly reaffirm that respect for human rights will be a core component and condition for any further development ... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. in both malta and slovakia, journalists have paid for their work with their lives. it is important to ensure freedom of the press in both malta and slovakia and to respect the rule of law. the anti-corruption monitoring must continue, and issues such as the so-called golden visas must be addressed and the credibility of the schengen area protected.
mr president, i would like to address mostly colleagues mr van dalen and mr langen. instrument of a rural economy invented by kaiser wilhelm ii and tsar nicholas ii continued by dictators stalin and hitler during world war ii, the instrument called ‘annual clock change’ must be stopped. the eu after all is a peace project isn’t it? it seems that clock change is the last remnant of the second world war, so let’s do away with it. we should not give the council, and colleagues who think like you, more extra time to sort out all sorts of obscure objections, even if governments cannot make reasonable decisions and threaten our logistical systems and common markets with patchworks and chaos. we should call their bluff. everybody can adjust with time zones and different official times. the tokyo and new york stock exchanges can work together despite different times.
madam president, the fact that this directive took two and half years doesn’t make it better, unfortunately. the impact of this directive on human rights is drastic, as has been pointed out by academics, digital rights ngos and david kaye, the un special rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression, in particular when it comes to the universal declaration of human rights, which clearly states that everyone has the right to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers. this is exactly what articles 11 and 13 will breach by creating obstacles in the way we seek, receive and impart information. it is clear that the rights of creators need to be protected, but creators and rightholders are not the same and we need to consider that this proposal is not balanced. we are putting the rights of a small group ahead of the rights of everyone else. the last time we voted in september, there were several alternatives on the table. now that is not the case. it is either accept articles 11 and 13 as is or reject them. i would like to urge my colleagues to vote to delete these articles. the damage to our fundamental rights will simply be too high.
mr president, i will speak only about the parliament itself. we all know that the green group has a critical view on the general expenditure allowance. we will not repeat it. we recall the days of the budget of 2017 which internalised the car service. we may not remember how heated a debate we had, how critical many members were and how public about it. but let’s be honest, the new system works. the cars are environmentally-friendly, the drivers are professional. of course, we have a problem of two seats. the cars drive empty from brussels to strasbourg. i noticed that some alde meps have a critical view on that, but as mr verhofstadt is belgian, he could lead the way and teach all the alde members to use that transport. to conclude, it has been a privilege to work in the committee on budgetary control. allow me to quote the russian writer, andrei platonov: ‘if money has been spent in the governate of gradov it must have been well spent’.
mr president, the annexation of crimea by force five years, blatantly violating the international order, can only be compared to the anschluss of austria by hitler 81 years ago. national anschluss paved the way for further aggression, culminating in the second world war. yes, the russian aggression has been condemned and sanctions established, but hesitations and differences of opinion have weakened their credibility and impact. the reaction by the eu to new russian aggression in the azov sea last november happened only four months later and targeted eight persons, one for every three ukrainian seamen arrested by russians. ukraine is not an isolated case. the european parliament resolution on russia two weeks ago stresses that russia’s deliberate breaking of international rules poses an imminent threat to russia’s neighbours in all parts of europe. there can be no return to business as usual until the kremlin fully and unconditionally restores the territorial integrity of europe. (applause)
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, following the overwhelming majority of interventions, i can conclude that we all need to continue keeping the non-recognition of the illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula high on our agenda, continuing to closely monitor developments in the azov sea and reflecting on how we can further support ukraine in this regard. i also believe that we can agree that we should use all opportunities in our bilateral and multilateral contacts to reiterate our principle position on the illegal annexation and to state that crimea is ukraine. ms gill, on this we can really rely on the unambiguous position of all eu member states. full stop.
in writing. – i visited crimea in 2001. at that time, this beautiful peninsula was a symbol of peaceful reconciliation after the sorrowful years of the cold war. during the past five years, the tides in the azov and black sea have turned and the peninsula that lies in between now serves a strategic goal for russia. the russian authorities have bought off the people by artificially pumped—up salaries, and dissidents have been either silenced or tortured and imprisoned. russia uses whatever pretext to secure the gateway to the eurasian heartland and yearns to be the pivot of the black sea. i praise the crimean estonians, who boycotted the referendum of 2014, which they rightly thought was illegal. despite the fact that crimea was occupied by the commands bellowed by putin and thanks to the collaboration of the ukrainian government of that time, we can all take the blame for this tragedy, as our responsive and responsible foreign policy tends to be lethargic at critical moments. crimea is a costly project for the kremlin – we still have the chance to make it fail by ending the nordstream2 programme, which helps russia to pay their ‘occupation bills’.
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all i would like to express my thanks for this interesting debate. i’m really glad that the european parliament recognises the importance of making progress on this file. as i said earlier, this is not only about being fair towards kosovo, its authorities and its citizens for recognising their efforts. this is equally about stability and security in this region. we cannot ignore the larger picture that is at stake here and the european perspectives of the entire region. it is by bringing them all closer that we also ensure stronger cooperation. one cannot keep moving or pushing the finishing line; otherwise, we risk kosovo and, most importantly, its european minded citizens turning their backs and running in the other direction. i very much regret that it was not possible for an agreement to be found under this legislature. i hope that it will be completed as soon as possible during the next term.
madam president, as usual in the committee on budgets, i always agree with what has been said by mr deprez. nevertheless, i have just one extra point to make after thanking mr maňka for his report, because i know first-hand how difficult it is to have a compromise between the bureau, the committee on budgets, the political groups and public demand, etc. so thank you for a great job, mr maňka. there is only one issue, and it is more jobs for political groups. this is exactly what happened when i was a rapporteur and we wanted 76 more political jobs for political groups. in a well-calculated, camouflaged and calibrated manoeuvre, they got their way. however, this is exactly what triggers and enflames all sorts of brexiters, orbanists, gilets jaunes and other frustrated people. so, colleagues, let’s tackle the diktat and curb the appetites of party managers. otherwise, we will not be meeting the high standards of the free mandate of meps, but will be described by history as mediocre party hacks.
in writing. – this report is an overdue step in the right direction. although it gives the commission a supervisory role in the approval of process regarding all pipelines linking the eu and third countries, it is too little too late when it comes to nord stream2. by continuing with this project, germany has unfortunately chosen to sacrifice europe’s security and long-term strategic goals over the potential short-term benefits of cheaper energy. however, once we are further locked into increasing europe’s dependency on russian gas, we are at the mercy of the man at the other end of the pipeline. since this project makes no commercial sense, as there is no lack of capacity in existing pipelines, there is a clear ulterior motive. for putin, 11 billion is a relatively cheap price to pay for financially harming ukraine and poland, reducing europe’s energy security by increasing our dependence on russian gas and dividing western allies. russia clearly demonstrated that it is ready to use energy as a political weapon when it restricted gas flow through ukraine in 2006 and 2009. this alone should be reason enough to abandon this unreasonable project. ceterum censeo, nord stream2 needs to be cancelled.
rapporteur. – mr president, i know how much we hate the speeches by rapporteurs which disturb the smooth flow of votes, but unfortunately, today i’m obliged to explain the dilemmas we are facing. we all know the old israeli joke – how many times the policemen laughs when you tell him a joke – but during this mandate we have had eight appointments to the european court of auditors (eca) and, with the outstanding exception of the republic of ireland, all of them have been political appointments – and, i must underline, increasingly so by the new or eastern-european member states including, estonia, finland, and hungary. i am not going to say that we, the politicians, are unsuited or incapable to carry out other professional work. on the contrary, our colleague ms maletić has very good credentials to become an auditor again. yet the procedure for how the member states pick up the candidates is far from transparent and fair. i hereby call on the member states to listen finally to the calls of this parliament and propose always two candidates to achieve a gender balance and follow the irish example – that means having fair, public competition to select those people, in the spirit of article 255 in our european treaties. dear colleagues, we must reconsider whether we really need an eca member from all the member states simultaneously. is there really so much to be audited? why can’t we manage this institution by taking turns: 14 auditors for one period and 14 for another? if we fail, there will be more disgruntled and unhappy people around, ready to destroy bastilles all over europe. so please vote this time as the rapporteur has suggested, but keep in mind the fact that a process taken by the romanian and croatian governments has not met the high standards and ideals of the european union. and indeed, the policeman only laughs once when you tell him a joke.
mr president, the integrity of electoral systems is a must, but the more difficult and equally important task is to ensure the integrity of elections as a whole, and we must prevent the legitimate manipulations of voters by players like cambridge analytica and aggregateiq. i very much agree with what ms schaake has been saying just now, but i would like to underline that facebook is such a big company and we – as legislators – could consider doing something to make it responsible for giving data to third parties, like the above—mentioned cambridge analytica, for instance. once the data is out there, that is it. there is no way to put the cat back in the bag, as the data set can be copied and duplicated indefinitely. in this sense, rogue data sets are much like nuclear waste, and that’s why facebook has to keep its user data on a tight leash or be fined or punished, whatever this parliament decides to apply. thank you, colleagues, and leave facebook – it makes you a better person. i did it, and i’m happy. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i wish i were so smart to reply to your question but i agree with what marietje schaake said: what is not allowed offline shouldn’t be allowed online. i closed facebook because most of the comments were: ‘i’m going to kill you, bastard’. so why should i be in this dirt? i closed it and now they can kill themselves until they come to the conclusion that they need to leave facebook as well, which is not to say that digitalisation and social media should not be developed but it must be controlled. it has to remain a human space rather than a sort of violent, inhuman – i don’t know an english word even, it’s a four-letter word anyway.
in writing. it is important to ensure the reliability and security of the european parliament elections from a cybersecurity perspective. the european parliament has already stated that, for example, russian disinformation campaigns are the main source of disinformation in europe. russia, china, iran and north korea are also taking increasingly aggressive steps to undermine the foundations of european democracy. a legal framework is needed to combat hybrid threats, including cyber and infor-attacks, at eu and international level.
mr president, one of the four freedoms enjoyed by eu citizens is the free movement of workers. free movement is hardly possible without social guarantees for workers and their family members, and efficient coordination of member states’ social security systems. when mobile workers move between eu member states for jobs, one key concern is that they can lose social rights earned in another country. it is also clear that the number of cross-border workers could increase if there was better coordination of social security systems between neighbouring member states. regretfully, the current regulation is outdated and ought to be revised. hard work was done in both my parliamentary committees, the committees on petitions and on employment and social affairs, but as we know, our trilogue agreement was finally not possible due to the conflicting views in the council. no doubt we’ll go back to this topic in the very near future. in this context, i would also like to underline that national discrimination against mobile workers is clearly outlawed by the treaties. i regret any attempt to put artificial obstacles for eastern european workers in their access to social benefits in the old member states. most importantly, i cannot support the indexation of family benefits in the place of residence of the children. this measure is both inappropriate and discriminatory, and it creates a complex, expensive and unnecessary bureaucratic monitoring system. similar discriminatory measures should not be included in any future proposals regarding coordination of europe social security systems.
prime minister of latvia. – mr president, if the first intervention was a little long, this intervention will be very brief. there are two ways to deal with differences of opinion. the best way is the way that this house does it: we debate, we listen to one another, we respect one another, but then at the end of the day we vote and we move forward. there’s another way to do it – something that my country experienced for a very long time under the occupation of the soviet union. that is, you have no say, you have no right to express your opinion, there is no vote, someone else decides, and they push you out of the way as they’re moving forward. it’s clear which is the best way. i am happy and willing to engage with anyone who believes that the way forward is to work with one another. this is the strength and the power of the eu. the fact that we have been able to maintain individual, sovereign, national countries with strong identities, distinct languages, unique cultures, independent and interrelated histories, and yet at the same time that we can work together, to open up the markets to trade, to find a way to pool our common resources into a single and strong and powerful voice in the world. the eu, for someone who does not know what the soviet union is, has nothing in common with the soviet union. absolutely nothing. (applause)this is a union of free will. free will of participation by the member states, free will of participation by the citizens, and we see that if citizens change their mind, no one is standing in the way. it truly is a free union. it’s a unique experiment in the world. the united states is a country based upon immigration. the original americans are not a people who have tremendous rights in the united states. the people that we call americans, generally speaking, have come from europe, have come from africa, have come from asia, have come from everywhere, with the acceptance that they leave something behind and become something together. but in europe, none of us has to go anywhere. we can maintain our languages and identities, yet come together on a political level and an economic level to further the interests of our own citizens. so this is the way forward: we don’t have to give anything up. we can pool resources and be stronger as one individual. we’re much stronger as a collected unit. (applause)
mr president, this is also my last speech in this parliament. the prime minister mentioned russian threats. today, prime minister, i think we need seriously to ask ourselves what more can be done, and what has been neglected, to efficiently counter these threats? parliament has insisted on assessing the crimes of communist totalitarianism equally with nazi crimes. but this is not an historic problem. it has been a burning, everyday political problem for the last 19 years. if the soviet kgb had received equally with hitler’s gestapo the same international and binding verdict as a criminal, murderous organisation, there would have been no chance that a soviet gestapo officer could have risen to lead today’s russia. but it’s not only about one person. in fact the soviet gestapo in corpora has usurped power from the russian people, establishing a mafia state. this state can endure only thanks to the merger of russian and european corruption. at least usd 1.3 trillion of stolen russian money has been laundered by western banks. if we move effectively to stop these flows, mr putin will cease to exist. (applause)
mr president, thank you for this fantastic opportunity. for many people here, it’s the last opportunity to speak in this forum. for me it’s the first and the last in one, as i’m a very new member, only having joined about 10 days ago. so i can ask mr president to make an exception for statistical purposes: perhaps, can you note down two interventions from me, my first and last in one? but thank you, prime minister, and labrīt, labdien. i wanted to ask the same question as my romanian colleague did about eu defence. so, let me ask you about your opinion of the eu—russia relationship. russia has violated international norms and rules by illegally occupying many of the neighbouring states: georgia, parts of ukraine, also moldova. what are your opinions on this and how do you see this difficult relationship that we have with russia – due to their own actions – developing in the future? paldies.
prime minister of latvia. – mr president, i took notes as everyone was speaking. i have lots of notes that i’ll be processing in the next while. the topics: security, energy, cohesion, agriculture, immigration, money laundering, social justice, china-eu, russia, etc., etc. i think if i truly tried to answer them my second speech would even be longer than my first. you don’t get to the votes and then you really turn, so i won’t do that. but what i do want to do is to say a couple of things. first of all, as a former mep, i want to thank each and every one of you for the opportunity, the pleasure and the honour that i had of working with you. the past almost 10 years, and also this past term, has been a tremendous time for me – even getting a little emotional it seems – but i really want to thank all of you for the great cooperation. (applause)many of you are saying that this is your last speech in parliament, but for me, i can say this is my first speech in parliament as prime minister. so i’m very pleased about that indeed. to sum up on the debate. colleagues, the eu is not perfect. it’s not perfect, and when voters are telling us that something is wrong, we need to listen to the voters. we don’t need to say: no, everything is fine, you’re wrong. no, we need to listen to them because people have real concerns. whether it’s about their jobs, whether it’s about immigration, whether it’s about the climate, whether it’s about security, these issues are real. but we also have real answers to these. we can work forward in the future as a union of sovereign and independent nations, not giving up one square centimetre of our national identity or pride or languages, but pulling together to fight and to pull as one. we are a union of values: freedom, democracy and the rule of law. as a latvian, i can say that we know what it means to live without freedom, to live without democracy and to live without the rule of law. (applause)this is not something that anyone should ever need to experience. we have a key way to unlock economic growth within the eu and this is the simple thing called the single market. what we need to do is to tear down the barriers of the single market within the eu, to create the environment so that our own companies, national companies, can grow to become european companies, can grow to be real, tough and successful players on the international stage. this is in our power. (applause)we can address the tough issue of immigration by strengthening our outer borders. this has to be done, because when we strengthen the outer borders, we can keep the internal borders open and not hamper the single market. we can have a clever transition to clean energies, again the key is to make sure that market forces are at play. let the market in, deregulate prices, green energy will take off, smart technological solutions will take off, consumers will participate, and the market will help us make this transition. and regarding our common security, i see no contradiction between membership in nato – my country is – and stronger eu security and defence cooperation. (applause)we need to work as a union to strengthen ourselves as a member of the nato alliance. there is no contradiction. but in terms of our security we need to go one step further than military security. this is security of our information, the information environment our citizens are living with, and as i said previously, i think it’s time to consider seriously legislation to look at the responsibility of social media platforms concerning the dissemination of false and misleading information which is a hamper to our democratic development. (applause)colleagues, we don’t need necessarily to fight the populists. the populists are being listened to because people are unhappy. we need to address the root causes, remind them that as a union we are stronger. like the bundle of sticks. you take any one stick, you break it, break it, break it, like our little nations. all nations in europe on the world stage are small, but united we’re like that bundle of sticks that cannot be broken, and we can take our way of life, our idea of free trade and push it on other markets, not have them push themselves onto us. (applause)we have a great responsibility, which is to take the values of freedom, democracy, the rule of law, with the single market and to move it forward. we do this in a peaceful way. we do it through debate. we do it in a way that includes citizens, and we move forward. (sustained applause)
in writing. mr prime minister, at the end of your speech i tweeted: i have to say that the prime minister of latvia makes a very good impression. much better than any other prime minister of any country, large or small, who has ever spoken before this parliament. it is possible that this goodness stems from the political culture of latvia, which has a 'good, beautiful' approach, as evidenced by the time it took in latvia to form the government you are leading. in estonia, it's well known that hando runel thinks we can't get through latvia and russia thinks we can't... to this, i can only add one thing today - and i am referring in particular to the ideas expressed in your speech - that we must also remember every day that we both belong to the eu. because only cooperation between the eu and the member states can help us to overcome the trauma inflicted on our peoples by the policies of stalin and his successors. and only then can we begin to think of russia as something other than a trauma. only the eu can help us in this. but we must also think of it in the light of the fact that the kremlin has succeeded in creating increasingly radical anti-eu forces in the member states and in estonia these forces are also part of the governing coalition. they haven't been in latvia yet, because, as i said, things take longer in your county, but they can take root in riga. i wish you clear vision and a firm mind in recognizing and controlling them in time. the european union is a great success!
madam president, i generally support my colleague reinhard bütikofer and i’m impressed about his far sightedness, be it in matters relating to china or the united states. however, today i must say that, even though his criticism towards the proposal is valid and sharply precise, he could agree with me that edf is actually too little too late, because we are long overdue to legislate on the common european defence force. and i mean it. as a european pillar of nato, this force should be used to defend the european union in times of threats and direct attacks, hence i do support mr krasnodębski’s report on the conditionality that further steps towards this force will be taken. and to mr bullock, i would like to say, yes, the european defence force will emerge and it will speak in english; unfortunately due to brexit adventures it will not have a british commander, but it will emerge. and to mr ferreira, i would say three billion is peanuts – even the estonian budget is bigger.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, this is one of the large last urgencies during this mandate and the message is very urgent. the human rights situation and religious freedom is more and more suppressed in beijing. freedom of conscience has reached a new low and religious groups are under strict control, and 7 000 crosses were taken down from churches during the last year. it looks like the chinese communist regime wants to establish absolute control over churches and beliefs. equally alarming is the situation of national minorities, especially tibetans and uyghurs, but the expression of concern is not enough. what is urgent is that the eu council and member states live up to their obligations to promote human rights, democracy and the rule of law in all external relations, without exception. we can make a difference by not being satisfied with a tasteless 37 rounds of human rights dialogue. by insisting on free access to xinjiang province and tibet, applying the principle of reciprocity, by enforcing targeted personal sanctions against chinese officials responsible for suppression of human rights and traditional freedoms.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we, as the european people's party and we, as the german christian democrats, entered this european election with manfred weber as our leading candidate and we wanted him to become president of the european commission. but after the elections in the european council some heads of state and government have trampled on the will of the electorate, after some groups in the european parliament have unfortunately not had the courage, as they did five years ago, to nominate the leading candidate of the winning group as president of the european commission, we are happy and pleased to have you, mrs von der leyen, as a candidate in the chamber today, and we will do everything we can until 6 p.m. to ensure that you also win a majority for this office and become president of the european commission. secondly, we are in a difficult situation here in the european union and you have a huge package of tasks ahead of you. in recent years, whenever we have had to deal with difficult issues, we have been able to reach an intergroup agreement here in the european parliament - not with all the groups, because unfortunately there are extremists and populists who do not want to develop europe but to destroy it - to reach compromises between many pro-european groups and to develop this continent in the interests of the citizens. that is why i ask you to take this european parliament - more than half of the citizens voted for it - as a partner in promoting europe and in opposing the blockade in the european council. the european commission and we in parliament have always been at the forefront of the development of the european union. i hope that you will continue to form this spearhead with us in the future. mr meuthen, we have heard your insults, slander and hateful words against mrs von der leyen. and since you, as the chairman of your party, did not even win a majority in your own district last night to become a delegate to the party congress, we can understand your frustration, but mrs von der leyen can do nothing about it. and that's why i'm asking you to find another place to vent your frustration. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs von der leyen, your appointment is the result of a difficult deadlock in which the european council was unable to find the required majority for any of the spitzenkandidaten. it is a possibility provided for by the rules, but it is a political and institutional wound which must be healed if the process of building a genuine european democracy is not to be paralyzed. that is why it is important that our group and others have entered into political and programmatic negotiations with you, tying our support to specific commitments. this is a significant innovation which can strengthen the relationship between citizens and europe and which must be taken seriously by everyone, starting with the council, otherwise the damage to credibility will be incalculable. in your letter to our group and in your fine speech, you have responded positively to many of our requests. more ambitious environmental objectives, an investment plan for sustainability that well defined requires more public investment, more public investment, full use of flexibility to ensure support for growth, european scheme for reinsurance of unemployment benefits, minimum wage, european child poverty guarantee, common consolidated corporate tax base, defence of the rule of law, humanitarian corridors, new compact for migration and asylum based on solidarity, and then, at institutional level, parliament's right of initiative, transition to the community method in crucial areas, strengthening of the spitzenkandidaten system. we appreciate these commitments and will fight with determination for their full implementation. it seems to me that it is clear from your letter and from the debate - and this is a positive thing - that the political partners of the new commission are and will be the pro-european forces, and we will never accept any ambiguity in this respect. it seems to me that it is clear - and this is good for europe - that the nationalist sovereignists are and will be irrelevant. mrs von der leyen, our group will be a careful and demanding interlocutor. we are not satisfied with words. if those words don't follow through, you'll lose our support. if, on the contrary, the commitments we have asked you to make are reaffirmed and put into practice, you can count on our loyal, vigilant and combative contribution to a better, more united and more just europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mrs von der leyen, you have offered us a green deal, but in this deal there is a green headline but little green content. our world is facing two major ecological crises: the climate crisis and the species extinction crisis. on the climate crisis, this parliament has made it clear that we have to deliver minus 55% by 2030. you have not made it clear today that you are fully committed to this objective. but this is the standard that people - young people on the streets of europe - rightly demand and that science demands of us. we need a clear commitment to minus 55 percent greenhouse gases by 2030. (applause from the centre) and the second is extinction. you've lived in hanover for a significant part of your life, and i've counted butterflies and dragonflies there. the animals i counted in the hanoverian region are no longer there. you didn't say anything about the biodiversity crisis. we are clearly calling for a new european agricultural policy that protects farmers and puts an end to the extinction of species. commit yourself today to presenting a new european agricultural policy that protects the climate and finally puts an end to the rapid extinction of species in an ecological sense. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the question for you is: are you prepared to deploy a european sea rescue mission and give frontex a robust mandate to end dying? your speech was good. their content wasn't good enough.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, minister von der leyen, your speech was not surprising. it was a speech we have heard many times in this house, full of promises which even you know you cannot keep. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. he will have to balance two very different parties and interests, those on the right who want a europe that controls immigration more strongly, who want a realistic and pragmatic approach to climate, which supports the economy, growth, industry and jobs, and those on the left who have an ideological approach, who have an approach of indiscriminate reception, who have a taliban approach to the climate issue, and this will be the big problem of his mandate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you spoke of welcoming, of saving lives at sea, all very well, but i did not see much emphasis in your speech on the millions of europeans who have suffered and still suffer because of the wrong policies of this majority. i have not heard a word about the disaster in greece and the fact that that country has been destroyed by the policies that europe wanted to impose, and it does not seem that you have the will or the majority to carry out the radical change that the european citizens asked us to make in the vote on 26 may. radicalisation or exclusion of those who think differently will not help europe to grow, will not help you to govern, will not really help this parliament to establish a supremacy or a major path for the next five years. we do not believe that you can represent the change that is needed and we do not believe that you will have an easy life in maintaining a majority that is watering down and looking like a coolabrod. i say again that the votes of those on this side of the house will count, that no one on this side of the house has offered support for the election of the president, but it was a request that came precisely in the knowledge that this parliament and this legislature cannot move to the left and in the knowledge that those who sit in this group will count in the next five years to shift the balance.
mr president, i would like to say to ms von der leyen that in politics, in this house, we understand that you sometimes need to create a majority, but what is always important is what kind of promises you give and how far you go with those promises. like a chef in a huge restaurant, you are responsible for the ingredients which you will put in a baked pie, what the taste of this pie will be and how satisfied customers will be. after five years, a majority of citizens, in riga or in a small village in the west of portugal, should be able to say that this is a good result. i don’t think this will be the case. why? last week, you came to our group and you said that one that one of the key principles is subsidiarity. today, i calculated that the first time you said this was after 30 minutes. i don’t think that transnational lists will become closer to the hearts of citizens; i don’t think that a qualified majority vote can decide everything and be good for everybody. and where are the rights of minorities on the political scene, or proportionality? so, sorry, but it is a bit disappointing today compared with last week.
madam president, mrs von der leyen, you represent the consensus which has for decades determined the course of the european union. the consensus of inequalities between countries where the surpluses of some are built on the deficits and sacrifices of others. the consensus on precariousness, instability in the lives of millions of workers, unemployment and underemployment, inequality between men and women. the consensus of big business, which sacrifices the environment and social rights for the profits of the multinationals. the consensus of privatization and the attack on public services. the consensus of militarism and war. the europe of progress, social justice, environmental protection, the europe of democracy, solidarity, cooperation and peace, this other europe will not be born of this consensus and that is why it will be elected by the same people as always. it will not count on those who are fighting for this other europe, and i assure you that this fight will continue for years to come.
i have to say, madam president, dear mrs. von der leyen, welcome to the club. i am very pleased that i am no longer the most dubious representative of european democracy. the staff table presented by the council contains: josep borell a spanish guy who had to resign as president of the european university institute because he forgot to mention an annual stipend of €300 000 is supposed to represent european values in the world as an external representative. christine lagarde a lawyer convicted of embezzling €400 million of public money and who has never led a national central bank is to lead the ecb. charles michel - a belgian who has not been able to form a functioning government even in belgium - is to become president of the council and ensure a balance in an ever more complex web of national interests, and you, mrs von der leyen - a german minister totally ignorant of european politics, who has only been noticed by a mad fondness for overpriced advisers, mismanagement and euphemisms such as 'turning the tide of finance' for the largest german rearmament campaign since the end of the war. to secure this parade of incompetence and moral worthiness, are you making a pact with the illiberal pis party and the would-be fascists orbán and benito salvini? we should not leave europe to the laymen.
i would like to thank you, madam president, and mrs von der leyen. i would like to summarize the position of the hungarian national delegation of the people's party in three points. first, the new president of the european commission will only do the right thing if he does everything possible to protect the external borders of the union. immigration must be stopped, and this is the only way to stop it. mass illegal migration is a serious threat to the security of european citizens, to peaceful everyday life, to our traditional european way of life. we expect the new president of the european commission to recognise and support the efforts of countries protecting the union's external borders. second, article 4 of the treaty on european union states that, i quote, 'the union shall respect the equality of member states before the treaties and their national identities, which form an integral part of their fundamental political and constitutional arrangements'. in recent years, the left-wing pro-immigration majority in the european parliament has sought to do away with these rights, enshrined in article 4 of the treaty on european union, by all means, including the article 7 procedure. we expect the new president of the european commission, as head of the body that acts as guardian of the treaties, to do everything possible to ensure full respect for national identity and the constitutional sovereignty of the member states. thirdly, regional development funds and agricultural and rural development funds are not gifts to the less developed member states, regions and citizens of the union, but investments to achieve one of the fundamental objectives of the union's functioning, namely economic, social and territorial cohesion, as enshrined in article 3 of the treaty. we expect the new president of the european commission to ensure that the next seven-year framework budget of the union does not punish but supports the v4 countries, the central european member states which are growing faster than the union average, catching up faster and making serious efforts to reduce poverty.
madam president, the next five years require leadership that does not consider ‘business as usual’ as the point of departure. we need a european commission that is ambitious, progressive and not resistant to change. ms von der leyen, it is positive that you plan to make the european union climate neutral by 2050 and that you are committing to putting this into law during your first 100 days. but when it comes to the 2030 target, keep in mind that this parliament asked for a 2030 target of 55%, because this is what is in line with the long—term strategy and with the paris goals. you speak about extending the emissions trading system (ets). maritime and aviation need to contribute, but the ets can never be extended to transport in general, as that risks undermining the co2 standards we have worked hard for. that’s why we ask for a clear commitment that you will not go back from the co2 standards that we agreed upon. we need to see much more on the environment. we need you to speak and commit to a biodiversity strategy and we also need to understand your position on the non-toxic environment strategy. the eu requires also a revamped industrial policy, an industry 4.0 that does not focus only on digitisation and automation but includes also the ecological aspect; an industrial policy that takes into account our current workers, our future employees, our students and our youth. allow me a final word on migration. you speak about a fresh start on migration. as an mep hailing from one of the frontline member states, malta, i urge you to put migration as a priority, where solidarity does not remain a buzzword but where legislative proposals, such as the dublin regulation, are enacted and become law so that not only a few countries shoulder the responsibility alone, as is happening today. we need policies that are game—changers if the european project is to move forward, and these are the policies that we, as the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats, will be pushing for.
madam president, i would like to thank minister von der leyen for her speech. compared to last week, that’s a huge step, but it really makes me wonder what we are voting for and who we are voting for. there’s so much changing and there’s so much unclear now. for example, on climate change you are fiddling around with the minus 50, minus 55, but what is europe going officially to put on the table when paris officially starts in december 2020? it is still unclear. you mentioned in your programme the biodiversity strategy, but there is no word on agricultural policies. what are you going to do about the current reform of agricultural policies? and then extending ets to traffic. what does that mean? the carbon prices we need in order to make sure our cars get clean are way higher than those we have now. this sounds like the tune of the german car industry – they would love to see these prices instead of the co2 standards. finally, on the rule of law, there have been some very good words, but one concrete action, so do you support the european parliament in its article 7 procedure against hungary? it’s time you became concrete on that.
madam president, mrs von der leyen, five years ago in this house, the man you want to succeed, jean-claude juncker, said that it was, and i quote, 'the commission of the last chance'. you are therefore likely to head the 'licensing commission', the last stop before the peoples and nations return to the heart of genuine european cooperation. the result of a discussion in brussels behind the backs of the people, methodically kept out of the opaque process of appointment to high positions in the european institutions, you are here because you have reassured certain political groups by giving pledges. you will go further and further, as you said this morning, in the global free trade that is destroying our jobs and depleting our planet. you will go further and further into the forced federalism that muzzles the peoples and locks the nations with, for example, the suppression of unanimity. you will go further and further into migration laxity and multiculturalism, which endanger the security and identity of our countries. for all these reasons, madam president, you will certainly have the votes of the liberals and the left in a moment, and for all these reasons, madam president, you will not have ours.
madam president, i would like to thank you. ursula von der leyen's conviction of the excellence of a united states of europe is in sharp conflict with the right of self-determination of the member states. in your vision, ursula von der leyen, the member states will lose their right to self-determination in your zeal to fulfil that vision. a president of the commission must lead with common sense and, above all, with a sense of reality in order to lead a europe in which the member states can cooperate optimally with each other and exchange experiences. a central political union has no support among the electorate, and it is a utopia because the member states obviously want to preserve their identity, their culture and their history. each member state is clearly defending its own interests. you must represent the people of all the member states and not your personal interests or ambitions. after hearing your speech here today, it is quite clear to me that you are unfit for this task. i will vote against your candidacy, and i hope the rest of the ecr members will do the same.
madam president, mrs von der leyen, you have come here with the unequivocal support of your european party and the governments of the extreme right. after several hearings and letters, he came here to present to the other groups the commitments that his supporters have always rejected and always blocked in this house. he told everyone what everyone wanted to hear. but what the european union needs at the moment is choices, choices, and that is why i ask you: in order to have cohesion, do countries have to compensate for excess surpluses? will you demand that of your government? or do we invest in fighting climate change in the service of the planet or do we invest in militarization in the service of the german arms industry? who, in fact, are you going to serve? we are either fighting off-shore in the european union or we are fighting public services. who are you fighting? either you will defend the rights of the workers or you will continue to recommend their destruction. who are you gonna defend? either we have a policy of welcome or we have increased border controls. whose side are you gonna be on? mrs von der leyen, we need five years of clear choices, we do not need two more weeks of contradictory promises, because europe can no longer stand a mandate of mermaid's song and, surely, of disappointments.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president, as a woman and mother of three daughters, i am pleased to see a woman for the first time presiding over the european executive. this is certainly good news. but i hope the change doesn't stop there. because the governments that supported your appointment certainly saw you as a worthy president, but above all they wanted to say no to those who had pre-packaged a package of appointments with the arrogance of believing that everyone else could just accept them. the people who supported it wanted to reiterate that if europe is to live together, it must also decide together, all together. mrs von der leyen, after our meeting, you took up the main points of our programme, you gave assurances that you would commit to a european minimum wage, a new immigration pact, ambitious climate reforms and finally to grant the legislative initiative to the european parliament. that is why the five star movement intends to support your candidacy, but every day for the next five years, you will have to prove yourself worthy of this trust. we will be watching it closely and will not hesitate to oppose it even harshly if it does not respect the commitments it has made, defending the italian and european citizens, as we have always done. to govern europe, it is not enough to be german, french, italian or spanish, we must take the best from each of us and show the world that the european union is much more than the sum of its countries. mrs von der leyen, both change and the european people deserve it and it does not disappoint us.
madam president, everyone knows that the way the council has treated this parliament and the way it has designed your commission has been inappropriate. but everyone knows that this is the worst possible time for an institutional crisis, that parliament cannot justify the anti-europeanists and that the irresponsibility of the council does not absolve parliament of its own responsibility. the council was wrong, but parliament cannot be wrong either. parliament must get it right. that is why we are going to trust you, because in a world in crisis and on the verge of a trade war, europe cannot be left in the lurch. because since you have been proposed, you have shown parliament your respect and commitment to european democracy. because you have shown a capacity for dialogue, and european peace is based on dialogue. europe is the very opposite of dogmatism. because you believe in a europe that does not distinguish between east and west, north and south, and that does not want to leave anyone behind. because you come from the party that won the elections, and your candidacy is in line with the wishes of the european electorate. because we share your faith in the rule of law and the primacy of constitutions. and so i am sure that we are counting on you to defend the spanish rule of law and the unity of spain. because their commitment to climate change is undeniable, demanding and exemplary. because today you represent europeanism and voting against you today is voting for anti-europeanism. because it is time for a woman to head the european commission, mrs von der leyen. and all of us who believe in equality between men and women, today, today, today - precisely today - cannot let this opportunity pass. you have my vote.
madam president, ms von der leyen, there is a reason why you mentioned in quick succession two of the critical issues, which my group regards as the key priorities, namely the relaunch of the dublin process and the support for an additional, comprehensive european rule-of-law mechanism. i quote your words in your letter to our group. and the reason is that, while these issues may not be the only important ones – you mentioned climate change, the social pillar and so on – they are issues which could make or break the european union. we all know this. and for this reason, you are saying the correct words, giving the headlines that we want to hear, but, as you’ve heard from many members, we need to have the concrete ideas underneath the words. in the dublin process, on this so-called pact for migration, you and i know that it requires qualified majority voting (qmv) from the member states. the fact of this inertia in the council – that there has been nothing on migration, while we see people drowning in the mediterranean – is something that you can do something about. you mentioned qmv on foreign relations issues, but you didn’t mention it here. and the criminalisation of ngos, and the humanitarian corridors: all these things are the detail that we need to hear. on the question of support for the rule of law, again, we need the detail: the multiannual financial framework (mff), the sanctions, hungary and poland – name the countries, because this is the essence of what we have to do here in order not to break europe. ms von der leyen, i’m a uk member, and people are tweeting at the moment that you want an extension, come what may. this is not what you said in a letter to us. you said, in quite a dignified way, that should an extension be required for the united kingdom there would have to be good reasons. and i think you dealt with the brexit issue here in a dignified and pragmatic way. pragmatic – that is the kind of partnership we want to see, as opposed to the kind of fantasy brexit that we’re hearing about from other people in this chamber. so, for this reason, pragmatic partnership is the way forward.
madam president, madam candidate, you have indicated in the hearings your support for the agreement between the european union and mercosur. what is the value of the climate commitment you have just made when, in this agreement, you support a president bolsonaro who has decided to massacre the amazon for agribusiness and mining projects? what is your commitment to women's rights worth when bolsonaro attacks women's rights every day, attacks homosexuals every day, attacks public freedoms every day and defends child labor? this is not the social europe you claim to be defending. madam candidate, the agreement with mercosur is the globalisation of junk food, it is the climate change, it is the disappearance of farmers in the north and the south, farmers of whom you did not say a word in your speech. so if you want to defend the european project, if you do not want to sell europe to the multinationals of agribusiness and the car lobby, if you do not want to give europe to the far right, to brazil and in this house, if you want to give it back to the citizens, then condemn and stop the agreement with mercosur and review the european commission's copy on the common agricultural policy. you'll be in tune with your values.
madam president, i have only one minute so i have only a few sentences to say. the first thing is that we have a lot of emotions here, and that is absolutely understandable because a lot of us don’t like the other side and other sides don’t like us. that’s fine. it’s part of democracy. i have met mr timmermans a few times and i know that he was one of the problems in the european council concerning the next candidate for the leader of the commission. but it was his positions and his ideas about his political views were also problematic. i was listening to ms von der leyen on her climate policy, immigration policy and the federalisation of the european union. i would like to say that there is no big difference between mr timmermans and ms von der leyen. it’s pragmatic policy, i understand, but it’s a fact. i have only ten seconds left. i would just like to say that all the member states in the schengen area have agreed that we have to protect our external borders, like italy is doing now, and like hungary with our eur 1 billion; we are even helping germany with that. we have to stop illegal human trafficking because a lot of people here are in favour of giving millions of euros to traffickers who are getting money thanks to this migration, and we are just saying here, ‘oh that’s absolutely fine’, and ‘we have to open the borders’. i don’t think it’s a very smart way to go forward, but anyway, good luck with the evening and i really hope that we will also have another candidate.
mr president, first of all, i would like to thank ms von der leyen for today’s remarks and for the letter she addressed to the s&d group. it was well received and it added a lot to the discussion we had last week in brussels. i would also like to recognise her commitment to democracy, rule of law, human rights, a fair and equal europe, a europe without dividing lines. now, i am looking forward to concrete actions and to concrete answers to the questions that were raised by my colleagues. also, i would like to draw her attention to another dividing line that she did not address today. – see on lõhe ida ja lääne vahel, mille ilmekaks näiteks on euroopa liidu nõukogu viimane otsus, kus kõik kõrged euroopa liidu ametikohad läksid lääne-euroopasse. ma ei taha euroopat, mis jaguneb idaks ja lääneks, uuteks ja vanadeks, nendeks, kellel on rohkem häält, nendeks, kellel on vähem häält. teistmoodi ühtset euroopat ei ehita. sellepärast küsin teilt: kuidas hindate seda otsust ja mida teete selleks, et need lõhed ei süveneks?
mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the high representative for her remarks and her commitment. i would like to draw her attention to one of the focus areas of the global strategy: cybersecurity. cyber is here to stay, and cyber challenges are the new reality. it is of the utmost importance to tackle cyber threats while maintaining an open, free and safe cyberspace. the eu has taken several important steps, including cybersecurity strategy, cyber diplomacy toolbox, cyber exercises and bilateral dialogues, but a lot has to be done. i would like to emphasise three points. firstly, the eu should be more active globally, acting as the leading force and voice in cybersecurity discussions and actions. secondly, the eu should be more vocal in promoting law and rules-based cyberspace, promoting, in particular, the applicability of international law to cyber. and finally, the eu should be vocal on inclusiveness, a multistakeholder model, listening to others and cooperating with other actors.
mr president, madam high representative, the last thing we need is another flare-up in a strategic region that is already one of the most turbulent in the world. i believe you did a great job, high representative, in helping to put together a deal whose aim was to guarantee that iran’s nuclear programme remains purely civilian. similarly, i believe that it has been important and necessary for us to keep the jcpoa alive after the unilateral withdrawal of the us, for until recently the iranians did, by most accounts, comply with the letter of the agreement. regrettably, this may no longer be the case. and also we cannot completely ignore the fact that, even when iran remained compliant, the economic benefits arising from the agreement largely failed to convince iran’s leaders to moderate their behaviour or reverse the pattern of fuelling conflicts in neighbouring countries in order to advance their own narrow goals. therefore, in order to prevent another potentially catastrophic escalation, we must make every effort to keep what remains of the agreement from completely falling apart and at the same time, urge all players to exercise restraint and act responsibly in order to find a non-military solution to the current tensions.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like once again to thank ms mogherini for her remarks and for the commitment to our eastern partners. moldova has been through a political crisis and it was truly encouraging to hear your assessment after meeting their officials. it is crucial for moldova to continue with democratic reforms and stay on the pro—european path. it is important to continue to work actively on the full implementation of the eu—moldova association agreement, including the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement. it is also crucial for us to support these endeavours, as long as moldova stays on a pro-european course. i would like to use this discussion to say loud and clear that moldova is an important partner, and as s&ds, we remain committed to supporting its future. as an estonian, i can assure you that we will continue with bilateral development cooperation projects. finally, it is very encouraging to know that the eu is resuming budgetary support for moldova in the amount of eur 14.54 million, which was announced yesterday by commissioner hahn.
mr president, while i think it is important that we hold this debate today, i believe that this alone is not sufficient given the magnitude of the challenge. therefore, i strongly support the proposal to set up a special committee tasked with looking into external interference in our democratic processes and elections. russian attempts to meddle in our elections and engage in other malicious influence activities have been well documented, and some have been mentioned here today. the regime in the kremlin, as well as other illiberal and non—democratic regimes, have made no secret of the fact that they detest our core european values and our representative democracy. so it should not be entirely surprising that they support, financially or otherwise, political forces in our countries that share their disgust of liberal values. it’s not, however, limited just to that. perhaps even more importantly, they want to undermine the trust of european citizens in our democratically elected institutions and to discredit the whole concept of liberal democracy. this is an existential threat to our union and must be treated as such by us. setting up a special committee is therefore a step in the right direction.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioners and the finnish presidency and i would like to express my hope that we will negotiate and adopt a strong resolution on this important topic. foreign electoral interference attacks one of the most sacred and universal principles of non—interference articulated in the un charter. this interference has different aspects, as we have already heard, and i would like to underline the importance of tackling attacks against technical infrastructure essential to democratic processes, in other words, attempts to hack democracy. in order to tackle these attacks, we need strong national measures as well as eu—wide and international cooperation. here the eu should be a leader: vocal, united, strong and committed. we should be crystal clear that foreign interference is not acceptable and that appropriate measures will be taken against those who violate it.
madam president, from the start, brexit has been about control, but far from taking back control from europe, johnson and cummings have lost control of the country. the nationwide protests about the prorogation of parliament, an outrageous usurpation of power unmatched since the 17th century, have meant the british prime minister is unable to appear in public anywhere in the uk, or even, as we see recently, in luxembourg. we now know what ‘take back control’ really meant; it means taking control away from our representatives in parliament, taking control away from the civil servants, taking power away from those who are upholding the rule of law. brexit has not given control to the people, or to parliament, but to wealthy oligarchs who want to avoid paying tax and to global corporations which want to tear up the laws that protect people and planet. this is why the commitment to an equal playing field on environmental standards, employment rights and consumer protections in parliament’s resolution is so important. we cannot allow a race to the bottom, where the uk ends up as a tax haven, a sweatshop or goes back to being the ‘dirty man of europe’. tragically, five million eu citizens have lost control of their lives and been shamefully turned into bargaining chips, as they struggle to keep their families together and their lives on track. i deeply regret that this parliament has failed to suggest that their rights should be ring-fenced in our resolution. although the situation in my country is chaotic, and democratic institutions are being tested to breaking point, both our mps and our courts are taking positive action to protect democracy. the clear message of our resolution today is that we look to the european council to grant the uk the extension we need to enable the democratic forces in britain to regain control and end the political crisis. only we, the people, can resist the tyranny of johnson and his cabal. we depend on our friends in parliament, and in the council, to give us the time we need to take back control from the moneymen and the oligarchs. only a people’s vote can guarantee that the majority who now wish to remain at the heart of europe can stop the brexit nightmare. (applause from certain quarters)
madam president, on 23 june 2016 the european union membership referendum was held in the united kingdom. on that historic day, a 51.89% majority chose to leave the european union. there have been more than 1000 days since the referendum took place, and every single day since then political elitists – both in the uk and in the eu – have held the people of great britain and northern ireland hostage. the decision of the uk voters to leave the european union is binding, and those in power have a legal duty to give effect to the results of the referendum. certain politicians may think they possess superior wisdom by preventing brexit, but they should be reminded that even though the people may not be the ones who govern, legislate or interpret the law, they are the source of that power. this is something the political elitists of our time conveniently tend to forget. the eu is quick to preach to third countries about democracy and the rule of law, but in its own backyard democratic results are only respected when they correspond with the ideology of the eu federalists. the possibility to join the eu was always accompanied by the corresponding possibility to leave. however, what has become clear is that politicians are doing everything in their power to prevent the uk from leaving the eu. even the guy verhofstadts of this world can be seen in a video drinking to the fact that they have succeeded in keeping the uk hostage for at least five years. boris johnson brought new hopes that brexit might finally be delivered. however, the house of commons constantly undermines him, most recently by voting in favour of rendering a no-deal brexit unlawful and effectively taking away hope. the council could block a third extension. johnson could negotiate a different deal or leave without a deal. the people of europe will not be silenced and will not be held hostage. by ignoring the will of the people, the eu is becoming the architect of its own downfall, unfortunately. (applause)it is time for the eu to listen to the people and to respect democracy and the sovereignty of nations, and it is time for the eu to practice what it preaches.
mr. chairman of the board! a few comments. i understand that ambitions are all important and that money would like to be put into more and more places, but if i listened to mr oettinger's review before, the fact is that if britain leaves the european union without a deal, there is a risk of an 11 billion euro hole. that money has to come from somewhere. the money comes from the member states, if there is no consensus to add, there is no money to be channelled. secondly, i have a question to ask mr oettinger in particular, as the most competent person on the subject. we talk about climate problems, we talk about migration problems, we talk about youth unemployment, but should we suddenly talk about demographic problems as well? the average birth rate in the european union is 1.59 children, compared to the rest of the world we are lagging behind. if europe is to survive and if we are to have a meaningful purpose in building a climate and sustainable europe, we need to ensure the future of our children as well. is that in the budget?
madam president, earlier this month, we commemorated the 80th anniversary of the beginning of the second world war. it is important not to forget the millions who perished in that great tragedy, and to honour those who fought to defeat the evil of nazism. it is also important to remember that it was the pact signed just a week earlier by nazi germany and communist soviet union that allowed hitler to invade poland and stalin to occupy and annex the three baltic countries. it is important to remember that by the time arms fell silent in europe, almost six years later, a big part of our continent had not been liberated at all, but continued to suffer under authoritarian regimes and external domination for another half century. if we forget about the darkest chapters of our history, or allow our memory to become selective, we risk being again vulnerable to threats to our democracy that arise from authoritarianism and illiberalism. these threats may come from the outside, in the form of illegal attempts to interfere in our democratic processes, but they may also come from the inside in the form of extremist political movements preaching homophobic, xenophobic and illiberal ideas and ideologies. only if we remember are we able to avoid repeating the tragic mistakes of the past and protect the european ideas and ideals.
madam president, i’m very happy to listen to colourful parliamentary language but not unparliamentary language, and i think we heard a string of adjectives there against the british prime minister totally unwarranted and which should be withdrawn. they’re not suitable for use in this house.
i am reminded, colleagues, that we do have a rule – it’s called rule 10 – and we try and have mutual respect between members and respect for the dignity of parliament, maintenance of security and order on our premises. so i do try and ask people to be respectful to one another, even where you have a difference. so perhaps our next speakers will try and live by that code.
madam president, mr barnier, of course, i think the next speakers are more respectful of this house. three weeks ago we had a similar debate to this in strasbourg. it’s like a déjà-vu feeling now here again. but anyway, the time runs and soon there is a european council, and we still know that the legal basis for reaching an agreement is clear. article 50 of the treaty of the european union is clear, and it reads as follows and i quote: ‘any member state may decide to withdraw from the union in accordance with its own constitutional requirements’. the effects of further extending the deadlines or of a ‘no-deal’ will result in a lose-lose situation for all sides. not only will it create serious problems for the multiannual financial framework for the next period, but it will almost certainly result in a hard border in ireland. the latest deal put forward by mr johnson includes major concessions on the part of the uk. the eu should now show the uk the same courtesy. the eu is like a jealous lover, using useless tactics to prevent the other party from leaving. but in reality, these antics only drive the ex-lover further away. i would therefore like to remind the eu of the age-old saying: ‘if you love something, set it free, please’.
mr president, i believe that all efforts to support ukraine’s reform agenda and sustainable peace in ukraine deserve to be commended. however, it is not just peace that is missing: we should not forget that ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity continue to be violated. i very much agree with the high—representative that we should stick to the measures which were put in place following russia’s aggression against ukraine and the illegal annexation of crimea until such time as russia has fully complied with its international obligations. furthermore, i believe that our efforts to achieve sustainable peace in ukraine must be driven neither by our desire to return at any cost to business as usual with russia, nor by the ukraine fatigue in our capitals, but rather by a very strong commitment to making sure that the wrongs done by the aggressor are righted and ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, as well as its legitimate aspirations, are honoured by all.
blue-card answer. – most labour voters, even in leave seats, voted remain at the time of the referendum. that is now even more the case, because labour leave voters have now seen that brexit is a right-wing, neoliberal project, driven by the right wing of the tory party, that will harm workplace rights, that will harm their economy, that will cost jobs, that will do no good whatsoever to britain. and that’s why the labour party has rightly taken the position that any brexit outcome now should go back to the public to decide.
madam president, there is currently a tale being told in the uk and, to be honest, some of the statements of people also here in this room haven’t really helped it. and this tale is that the eu is tired of us, they want to get rid of us and they want to mind their own business. and we have to make absolutely clear: this parliament is still also the parliament of the british citizens. the eu is not tired of the uk. the eu is not tired of british people, and also the eu is not tired of having sensible and constructive negotiations. this project is built on multilateralism, so we love negotiating and finding common solutions. but what we are tired of is prime ministers that are giving promises that they cannot live up to. what we are tired of are prime ministers that are using divisive language at a time, especially, like this. what we are tired of are prime ministers who don’t understand that if they do not get this deal through the house of commons, they will have to put it back to the people, so that the british people can decide on this finally.
madam president, first of all congratulations to the brexit party because probably for the next month you’re not here anymore, and that’s a good thing because there are not many things where i can agree with mr juncker, but as he said five days ago, there is no argument for further delay, so brexit has to be done. for the dear colleagues from the left side who are saying about democracy that somebody’s afraid of a new referendum, i would like to say that i’m pretty sure that in the uk there are millions of voters who are not satisfied that you are here in the european parliament. what should we do? should we make new elections for the european parliament because they are not satisfied with the results of the elections? of course not. after five years. same thing with a new referendum. maybe in 10 years, or in 20 years you can organise a new referendum to join the eu, but i’m pretty sure that it will not happen, because the conservatives, or the brexit party, or the right conservatives will win anyway the next elections, because they have done the brexit. thank you and good luck.
madam president, in a conflict as long-lasting and complex as the syrian one, we did not need more crises or more unilateral interventions. the turkish action has involved suffering, loss of life and the displacement of many people. it could also have meant advantages for daesh by facilitating the escape of those hitherto detained. and it also entails a greater presence in the area of russia, which is becoming the arbiter of the situation, more so after the agreement yesterday in sochi. the us withdrawal from syria and the absence of the european union have created a vacuum that is now being filled by russia, turkey and iran. the decisions of the united states have important consequences: they remain the indispensable power, even if they do not want to be. the european union must also be more present at the external level. it cannot be limited to humanitarian aid and reconstruction. the union must prevent, facilitate solutions. we need a much more active foreign security and defence policy. global governance instruments, such as the security council, are inoperative and washington is following an external withdrawal line. the european union needs a more active, more ambitious foreign policy, a more active security and defence policy, and the syrian case unfortunately shows us that.
madam president, using military force is not the right approach to solve the strategic security challenges faced by turkey within its southern border. on the contrary, it only adds new ones. while fighting the kurdish military forces, turkey hurts kurds, syrians and its own citizens. in addition to civilian casualties, the old wounds and anxieties of a deeply traumatised population along the border are being reopened. the unfortunate us military withdrawal, unnecessary turkish military invasion and destructive russian military and political presence in syria have created a new geo-strategic shift, which can hardly be balanced or sustainable. the eu must play an active role in ensuring turkish accountability and, at the same time, do everything possible to pursue a critical dialogue with turkey. speaking of syrian kurds, we must seek ways to relinquish their long-time suffering.
madam president, the turkish army's aggression against rojava or syrian kurdistan raises fundamental questions for the future of europe. the first is the stability of that part of the world. the kurds have opposed energy and courage until victory against daesh, even though turkey has shown and still shows duplicity. attacking the kurds is compromising the only real bulwark against terrorism. the second issue is the democratic values to be promoted. in particular, as regards women's rights, kurdistan offers a new model for the entire muslim world, which is the opposite of what exists in most muslim countries. it's crucial for the future of the world. the third challenge is the security of europe in an increasingly dangerous world, where we will need allies. how will europe find allies tomorrow if it does not protect its allies today? the european union can act strongly on its own by deciding on strong and immediate effective economic and diplomatic sanctions. trade between turkey and europe is the largest, far more than trade with the united states. it is therefore our responsibility to impose today deterrent sanctions against the dictatorship of mr recep tayyip erdoğan.
mr. chairman of the board! i fully agree with all the speakers who say that turkey's aggression in northern syria and against the kurds is totally unacceptable, but at the same time i am left with questions about these responses. we are calling for responses and we must respond, i am in full agreement with that, but what are those responses exactly? i have just heard from the previous speaker - a good colleague from the left - concrete proposals for economic sanctions, so to speak. i totally agree. at the same time, it should be borne in mind that turkey has consistently used blackmail tactics in recent years and continues to threaten the european union that if, for example, the european union does not pay new amounts, turkey will in principle open its border, which is unacceptable. the european union has paid out six billion euros over the last four years. - what for? for submitting to turkish pressure! and the second thing is that whether we like it or not, the united states has played a very important role in maintaining stability, and if the americans withdraw, there will be too much of an opening for russia and turkey, which is unacceptable to us and means more cooperation between the european union and the united states. thank you, and i hope everything works out.
mr president, the council decision not to open talks with north macedonia and albania was highly regrettable. more than that, it was plain wrong. much has been said about what this failure could mean to the eu’s credibility, not just in those two aspirant countries but far beyond, and how it could destabilise the whole region. what makes it particularly shameful is the fact that the refusal to open talks was motivated by domestic political consideration or, to put it more directly, by poll figures in a certain eu member state. it was not the result of any failure by the aspirants to live up to their end of the bargain. in fact, quite the opposite was the case. the leaders of north macedonia especially have displayed admirable courage and taken significant political risks to resolve a longstanding disagreement with a neighbour. i believe the council decision from last week runs counter to the vision of europe whole and free. it is crucial that the mistake be corrected before irreparable damage is done to our credibility and to our common european security interest.
and so you are against it. so let us put the request to the vote by roll-call vote, but i would say let us take a single vote if you are in agreement. don't you agree?
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, in the gue/ngl group we agree with the proposal to hold a debate in the plenary on chile. at the very least, there are dead people on the table. the difference with bolivia is that the government of evo morales has not taken the army out into the streets and has not killed anyone: that is the difference. what we are asking for is at least a debate. let there be a debate and, if the debate is approved, then let us vote on a resolution. that is what the gue/ngl group is asking for. so let us vote first if there is a debate... (the president interrupts the speaker)
no, i'm sorry, but let's hear it for ourselves. i asked for a single vote, if you agree, where the debate on the resolution is. do you agree with the resolution?
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, we are asking for two votes; that is what we have asked for: two separate votes. we are saying: first, let's vote on a resolution, and, if there is a resolution, let's vote on whether there is... (inaudible words)
i have received a request from the id group to include a commission statement on the steel industry in the european union, how to protect domestic workers and the production chain, as the second item after the discussion on children's rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we think it is appropriate to have a debate on the steel sector, which is in crisis throughout europe today, with thousands of jobs at risk. we are asking, however, that it be placed on the agenda under the heading 'how to protect european workers and the steel sector'.
the proposal is also accepted by the hon. borchia? so we'll have a one-time vote.
i have received a request from the id group to include a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in kashmir as the fourth item after the discussion on the situation in bolivia. the debate will have to be concluded by a resolution to be voted on at the second part-session in november.
i have received a request from the id group to include, as the last item of the afternoon, before the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance, a statement by the commission on violence against women and the situation of refugee women. the debate would end with the tabling of motions for resolutions, which would be put to the vote during the next partsession.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statement on children’s rights on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the convention of the rights of the child (2019/2876(rsp)). before i open the debate, i’d like to inform you that to request catch the eye and blue-cards, you can use both the standard registration and the new system allowing members to register electronically, and you will need your voting cards to do that. should you wish to register for catch the eye, i would invite you to do so starting from now, rather than waiting to the very end of the debate.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for this opportunity to exchange views on the important issue of children’s rights. this subject is very close to my heart. thus i note with great pleasure the attention the european parliament is giving to the 30th anniversary of the united nations convention on the rights of the child. in finland we will celebrate this special day with different events, among which children will take over the government and work together with ministers, including myself, on 20 november. the european union recognises every child as a right holder and seeks to promote the protection of the rights of the child throughout the world. children’s rights are enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and they are the subject of particular attention when the application of the charter is reviewed by the council every year. the presidency conclusions of october 2018 addressed the rights of categories of children who are extremely vulnerable, such as roma children and children in migration. funding from the rights, equality and citizenship programme, and the justice programme, allows member states’ institutions, as well as actors from civil society, to bring forward important projects related to children’s rights. we are confident that this focus will be maintained also for the programmes to be agreed in the framework of the next multiannual financial framework. at the same time, the european union is committed to mainstreaming human rights, including children’s rights, across all policy sectors in the context of its external action, as reaffirmed in the global strategy. in all policies affecting children, the main principle should be to ensure the best interests of the child. the united nations convention on the rights of the child, of which we celebrate the 30th anniversary, is the most widely ratified human rights treaty in history. all eu member states are party to it. the convention and its three optional protocols constitute the primary international standards in the promotion and protection of the rights of the child. the eu will continue to support and encourage partner countries to ratify and implement these instruments. the convention on the rights of the child has been instrumental in improving children’s lives across the world ever since its adoption. many challenges still remain. millions of children are on the move, uprooted from their homes as migrants, refugees, internally displaced, separated from their parents and care givers, raised in institutions or used as soldiers in armed conflict. they are trapped in forced labour and thus denied their rights to education and play. violence, abuse, poverty and discrimination, which children are exposed to, this particularly vulnerable group, also continue to persist. determined to respond to all these challenges and to reconfirm its commitment to the rights of all children, in 2017 the eu updated its guidelines for the promotion and protection of the rights of the child. the guidelines are grounded in a rights-based approach and their guiding principle is to leave no child behind, in line with the 2030 agenda on sustainable development. the council considers it important that these guidelines promote a systems—strengthening approach by identifying all the necessary measures, structures and actors which need to be in place to protect all the rights of all children, including, and especially, those in the most vulnerable and marginalised situations. in its conclusions of 2017 the council reaffirmed the importance of promoting gender equality between all boys and girls by paying particular attention to addressing gender—based discrimination and violence, including sexual violence and ensuring the empowerment of girls, because it is often girls who are left furthest behind. the eu is committed to fighting all forms of harmful practices to which girls are especially exposed, for instance child, early and forced marriage and female genital mutilation. the 30th anniversary of the united nations convention is an opportunity to celebrate the progress achieved, but also to look at what still needs to be done. it is time to get ready for the newly emerging challenges, such as the threat of bullying, online as well as offline, and the protection of children in situations of conflict and displacement due to the climate crisis. in multilateral fora, the eu has been very active on children’s rights and is determined to keep the issue prominently on the international agenda. the european union has had longstanding cooperation with a group of latin—american and caribbean countries. an example of this is the annual resolutions presented at the united nations human rights council and the united nations general assembly’s third committee. this year, during the march session of the human rights council, the theme of the resolution was empowering children with disabilities for the enjoyment of their human rights, including through inclusive education. the topic of the resolution recently presented at the united nations general assembly third committee is children without parental care. honourable president, honourable members, as set out in the convention on the rights of the child, children’s rights are universal. universal is also the experience of being a child. in the words of antoine de saint—exupéry, all grown—ups were once children. those who are children today are also the leaders of tomorrow. if their full potential is realised, they can be the greatest agents of change and sustainable development in their communities and globally. the european union will continue to stand up for the rights of every child to reach their full potential, in line with the convention and its optional protocols.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, this year we mark the 30th anniversary of the adoption of the united nations convention on the rights of the child. we often speak about its revolutionary character, as it contributed to change in the way the world looked at children. they are not only seen as a group of people who need protection. they are also seen as rights-holders who can play an active role in society. we see this very strongly in the climate change protests and the marches all around the world. children are making their voices heard and are demanding that world leaders act to tackle climate change. and in the eu we have made the protection and promotion of children’s rights a priority over the past years. all eu member states are party to the convention. the rights of the child are enshrined in the european charter for fundamental rights, which binds the eu institutions in our work, and member states when they are implementing eu law. we have a strong body of law in several areas of eu competence, which ensures the protection of children’s rights. for example, we have the directive on combating the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children, the whole body of law in the area of asylum and we have the victims’ rights directive and the directive on procedural safeguards for children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings. in addition to eu law, we have progressed significantly in putting children higher on the political agenda at eu level. we also have funding available for the protection of children’s rights under our rights, equality and citizenship programme, in addition to all eu funds, which can contribute to this objective, if confirmed. we published a communication on the protection of children in migration in 2017 and we monitor regularly how the member states and eu agencies implement the actions proposed in it. however, we still have 25 million children living in poverty in the european union. we have children who are victims of abuse, exploitation and trafficking in human beings. we have children who suffer from mental health problems, who are victims of bullies and who commit suicide. we still have a long way to go to make sure that all children, regardless of their origin, socio-economic background and migration status, can fully enjoy their rights. i very much welcome the attention that the european parliament has consistently put on children’s rights. we have worked hand in hand for this objective over the past five years, and as you know, the incoming commission is committed to continue working on the protection of children’s rights. dubravka šuica, the vice-president-designate for democracy and demography, has been entrusted with the preparation of a new comprehensive strategy for the rights of the child and with the delivery of a child guarantee. i look forward to collaborating with her on this important matter.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the un convention on the rights of the child is the most widely ratified of international human rights treaties and, as has been said by the commission and the council, this is an extremely important anniversary. it is self-evident. we have 100 million children in the european union, 20% of the population. in developing countries it is over 40%. but today, what we are talking about is the clear advance we have made since the convention, but also the huge challenges we have. i heard the commissioner talking about the strong body of law that we currently have, and i believe that what we should be doing today, in honour of this anniversary and all of the many people from across society who have worked in this area, is to understand that this strong body of law on sexual abuse and exploitation, victims’ rights, procedural safeguards – i would add the child guarantee to fight child poverty – all of these things must come alive and they must mean something to the millions of children who face challenges. i would say, in the final seconds of my contribution, that just one example of this is that, globally, at least 30 million children have migrated across borders or have been forcibly displaced. one-third of the refugees and migrants who have arrived in europe are children, some of them unaccompanied. we need to understand that the guidelines which were grounded in a rights-based approach must also address how they are being treated. there are 4 000 unaccompanied children in greece right now, enduring unsafe and inhumane and degrading treatment. this is something that is a challenge for the whole of the european union, both for our children, who are doing well in the european union, but those who are not doing well. this is truly an internationalist anniversary and an internationalist convention and we should do everything to honour it in the european union.
on behalf of the renew group. president, madam minister, madam commissioner, children are our greatest asset. you touch the children, you touch our creature. today is a happy day: on 20 november we will be celebrating the 30th anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child, which has now been signed by 190 countries. so we should celebrate. i also think that we have achieved a great deal. but i would also like to point out today that we are still lacking in this area, because unfortunately we cannot yet say that the rights of the child are universal. let's look at the numbers. one in three children under five is malnourished, despite the right to food; almost one in five children live in areas affected by violence and conflict, despite their right to a safe home; 262 million children are not in school, despite the right to education. every day, children are sexually exploited, despite the right to protection against exploitation. children make up more than half of the world's refugees. mrs jourová, you know i make a point of this: in europe, more than ten thousand unaccompanied minors are currently missing! a startling figure was mentioned yesterday at a conference on this subject. when we ask what happened to those children, europol says (anno 2019!): i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. let us use this 30th anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child to make an even greater commitment to tackling these points of work in the field of asylum and migration. children are children, wherever they are.
on behalf of the group id. mr president of the court of justice! thank you very much, european parliament. i think the 30th anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child is a landmark event, and it should be emphasized. and it's important to highlight the points that most of the world's countries have agreed on. most countries have also ratified it, or made it their own. the first paragraph is very clear: 'for the purposes of the present convention, a child means every human being'. the european court of justice ruled a few years ago that human life begins at conception. it means that even unborn children have a right to life. there are many countries in the european union today where, for example, every 200 to 400 unborn children are deprived of their lives compared to every 1,000 live births, or about one in three children are deprived of their right to life, which is certainly not in line with this convention and certainly not in line with the european values that we are trying to defend here. the second and third points are interconnected, especially with regard to children used in human trafficking. when we talk about the surrogacy practice that is going on in so many countries that have ratified this convention, like georgia, russia, ukraine, the united states, children are being used for commercial purposes to sell to those who want to buy the child. whether it's families who can't have children or gay people who are just trying to make ends meet or a misfortune. for example, in georgia, there's this great site called surrogacyforgay.com, and unfortunately, these children don't have the right to choose the family they're sold to, and they don't have the right to a mother and father, which should be a human right for every child. thank you very much.
madam president, madam president-in-office of the commission, first of all let me congratulate you on the speech you made, on the programme you put forward, on the team you put together, and let me also congratulate you on the capacity for inspiration which you have given to so many europeans, and in particular to us who are here in this house. and so i can say, unlike my dutch colleague, that she counts on my vote, but she counts on my enthusiasm already. i would like to draw attention to the following: we cannot accept a budget that is smaller than the previous one, and in particular we must look at cohesion policies, because cohesion is under threat today, and without cohesion there will be no european unity. i would like to draw attention to the risk that if we do something that is fundamental - the just transition fund - we will divert 5 billion euros from cohesion to this fund. new priorities mean new funding. cohesion policy should not be affected. finally, let me say a word about the conference on the future of europe. i ask you to commit yourselves seriously to this design, to be able to involve the citizens and not to let the commission, as some of my colleagues have done here today, make the move of having the conclusions drawn before it has even heard the citizens and involving them in this same conference. i think it will be a fundamental step for this commission, but also for all the institutions, that we have a very successful conference on the future of europe.
madam president, the british general election does not preclude sending a commissioner to the commission. it is a legal obligation and it is a matter of regret because sincere cooperation means that. that is why we are here and that is the spirit in which we should have continued. so you’re not legally complete and that is a fact. this commission was part of a process in its building. that is why i’m proud of the progressive commissioners and what they can achieve, but it was part of a process. building a green new deal, a just transition to a low carbon economy, workers’ rights, equality, the horizontal discrimination directive: many of these have been characterised by delay, but delay because they were challenges, challenges that had to be overcome. so the process in building you was part of our groups’ wish to create a more progressive commission. and so we vote, but i want to mention two things which i’ve spent my last 20 years on, and which the president-designate of the commission mentioned. one was the 39 people in the lorry, the thousands of people who have lost their lives in the mediterranean. there will be a pact on migration within days of this commission taking office. this is a challenge because we have not got it right, and this is an extraordinary challenge for this new commission because it is feeling the bad politics of the european union. so i wish you all the very best with this, but it must be in line with our fundamental eu values of human rights and dignity. for the challenges of the future, the president-designate mentioned ai and having responsible data in the future. we don’t want china and the united states still doesn’t have gdpr, so it is up to the european union. but dealing responsibly with data innovation, that is for the european union. these are extraordinary challenges and i’m proud to have been part of this european union which can deal with that.
madam president, there is no doubt that the members of the future commission are quality actors. i am thinking of my political family's commissioner, my compatriot nicolas schmit, whose competence is not disputed by anyone, and many others. i cannot, however, help thinking of sylvie goulard, who did not lose her dignity but who, in my view, was badly treated by some people during her parliamentary hearing. of course, a parliamentary hearing is not a leisure activity. of course, under these circumstances, critical questions are not only desirable but absolutely necessary. however, there is no justification for the frankly biased, hostile or even hateful attitude of some of the actors in the european parliament towards her, which culminated in the announcement 'we will kill her', an attitude which is hardly compatible with proper parliamentary behaviour. when a decision of this nature is made without respect or objectivity, it can get in the way of exceptional talent. i cannot accept the form in which this decision has been taken by some of my colleagues.
i have to say, madam president, i am sorry to say that it is impossible to support this commission. why would you do that? the commission is not democratically legitimized. the elected president, mrs von der leyen, was not even on the ballot for the european elections. her appointment could be discussed if she were the top candidate for the position. but she wasn't. it would have been understandable if she was the most qualified. it's not her. the german ministry of defence, for example, under her leadership, was characterised by unprecedentedly poor performance and questionable external contracts. what will happen to europe under your leadership? the future of europe looks rather bleak with this new commission president. unfortunately, this commission has no realistic vision of the future. it has now shifted its focus to climate hysteria and the creation of a united states of europe. but the eu is not a federal state with member states as communities, it is a voluntary association of sovereign states.
mr president, this is a very important topic, and foreign and local interference in european democracies and elections is a clear and direct violation of member states sovereignty and should be treated as such. it is key for all member states to ensure that, specifically in relation to cyber threats, security policies are developed and effectively implemented. however, the current trend of blaming an unfavourable election result on foreign interference must end. the left has been notorious in blaming election results that do not suit them on interference from a foreign power. this not only undercuts european democracies but also underestimates the intelligence of european voters. equally, the impact of the distribution of this information by foreign powers and local actors alike must not be underestimated. it should also be pointed out that right-wing political parties have been disproportionately and unfairly accused of using and benefiting from such disinformation. in this regard. i will therefore emphasise that all forms of disinformation should be countered even when directed against right-wing political parties, in accordance with the european values of equality, rule of law and democracy.
mr president, dear federica, thank you so much for the work you have done. my remarks concerning georgia: as was mentioned by my colleagues, the georgian parliament voted down constitutional amendments on a transition to a fully proportional system for the 2020 parliamentary elections. it was unexpected, as there was a clear and multi-partisan consensus over these changes. it caused turbulence in society and it brought people to the streets. i would like to urge all georgian political parties to come together and to find a solution that will not jeopardise the hopes of people and the democratic future of georgia. today we listened to the newly elected president of the commission, she did not mention the eastern partnership. it was disappointing, and as the chair of the delegation for relations with the south caucasus, i would like to reassure all our eastern partners of the full support of the european parliament to the democratic reforms and european aspirations of these nations.
madam president, our continued commitment to the eastern partnership serves not only the best interests of the six countries to our east, but also our union itself. political stability and growing prosperity in the eastern partnership countries provide us with a more secure and more predictable neighbourhood, and limit the ability of our adversaries to exert their malignant influence over those countries. as the rapporteur on georgia, i share the concerns about the developments in that country. the voting down by the georgian parliament of the electoral law amendments that would have implemented the switch to a fully proportional system was regrettable. while we do not and should not prescribe to our partners the precise electoral systems they should use, we do fully expect them to abide by their own previous commitments. european aspirations are almost universally shared by all georgian political players, as well as a significant majority of the country’s people. it is crucial not to let those legitimate aspirations become collateral damage in domestic political turmoil. the georgian political leaders will have to find a political solution to the crisis and be able to assure their own people, as well as their international partners, that the integrity and transparency of the political process is guaranteed.
mr president, let me thank the high representative, dear federica, for the excellent cooperation during the last five years, and also for her personal commitment to finding a just and sustainable resolution to this almost intractable conflict between israel and the palestinians. let me also thank her for her unwavering commitment to preserving the eu’s unity regarding our approach to the peace process. a negotiated two-state solution remains the only just way of resolving the conflict, and it is also the only intellectually convincing solution which can simultaneously address israel’s very real and legitimate security concerns and deliver the legitimate palestinian aspirations of statehood. eu support for the negotiated two-state solution has been clear and consistent and needs to remain so. settlement activity in the occupied territories presents an obstacle to the peace process and that’s why we should be very clear in our opposition to that activity. the same goes for the encouragement provided for such activity in the form of the recent us declaration regarding the legality of the settlements. i do not believe that unilateral actions which are clearly inconsistent with international law, are in anyone’s long-term security interests.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, as has been said before, europe is at the doorstep of a new era. with the new green deal, we want to ensure a future that is more just, more sustainable and completely climate-proof. at the same time, we also had to face an unsuccessful cop in madrid last week, let’s be honest, and one of the parties that was part of the negotiating team that led to that disappointing result was brazil. ‘i won’t protect any part of the rainforest that can be exploited.’ those are bolsonaro’s words. could it be any clearer? and let’s be frank at the beginning of this term. it is unthinkable that our farmers, our manufacturers, have to make a huge effort in the new green deal and at the same time trade policies will remain as they stand. we cannot open our markets to these countries that – at the same time – try to profit from social and environmental competition and a race to the bottom. let me be clear, and i said this to you, commissioner, informally. let me say it formally. i don’t think there is today a majority in parliament to agree on the fta with mercosur. it will not fly as it stands. and i have no proof of that, but i have some experience in this parliament. so let me outline what is important for the s&d in the coming year. first of all, we want the brazilians – the mercosur countries, but brasilia in particular – to take a different attitude with the international states. if they want to be our partners in trade, they need to be our partners as well when it comes to measures on climate change. secondly, we want pre-ratification conditions. we want to have a change in the policies in brazil on the amazon. and last but not least – and i’m looking to the council in particular, but also to the commissioner – i want to remind you that we, the parliament, have a long-standing demand to make the tsd chapters legally much more enforceable, and that includes sanctions, because otherwise the paper on which the tsd chapter is written is useless. we should use less paper and take more action.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the agreement between the eu and the mercosur countries has been under negotiation for 20 years. the result is disappointing! an outdated, very general mandate given to the commission by the european council in the last millennium without any involvement of the european parliament has become the ticket for neoliberal free trade. the many new weightings of sustainability chapters in trade agreements that have been gained in recent years, the priority given to human rights, environmental protection and employment standards as prerequisites for economic and social development, are ignored. only a few days after the disappointing cop 25 in madrid, we are right to ask: is the agreement compatible with the green deal announced by the commission president? does it contribute to the 17 un sustainable development goals? a very clear no! just one example: objective 13: the country with the largest rainforest in the world is ignoring its responsibilities, just as the commission and many governments of the member states are ignoring theirs. the mercosur agreement will, under the conditions of today's market logic, continue to promote the long-term destruction of the amazon region in favour of the expansion of agricultural land. it is counter to the green deal's goal of preserving biodiversity. so let me be clear . if you, the commission, want to make climate protection the focus of your work, this will include legally enforceable commitments to environmental and climate protection. that's what's missing. so is the green deal's attempt to put sustainable production policies in place. if the green deal and international trade policy are to be brought into line, there is only one sensible alternative: to stop the current agreement!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 906 000 hectares of amazon forest were lost in 2019. it's as if a third of belgium were burned in a few months. i do not know what other evidence is needed to show that the agreement with the latin american countries will have a serious and negative impact on the environment. the fires we saw in the summer and which continue to this day are destructive, aimed at creating new land for cultivation and especially for grazing, which alone are responsible for 80% of all deforestation in the amazon. but deforestation is not the only environmental problem in the agreement. we know that there are no limits or specific sanctions for the use of pesticides and the exploitation of fish, especially in argentina and uruguay, or for the mismanagement of water resources, as is the case in paraguay and uruguay. and if these are the promises, what effect do you think an agreement designed to export more meat and more agricultural products to europe will have? what is the point of telling our producers to pollute less, of forcing them to meet very high standards, when their competitors in the world do not have to meet any of these obligations? what is the point of limiting emissions in europe when the fires in the amazon have produced 140 million tonnes of co2 in a single summer? colleagues, the environment knows no borders. the amazon is our lung and we, we must protect it first. true, world trade is under attack. the european union is in a hurry to react by concluding new agreements, but we are not convinced of this agreement as it stands now, we want to see more guarantees for european farmers, an action plan to protect the amazon through sanctions that are applicable and targeted at environmental constraints. i conclude, mr president. trade is important, it's essential. latin america is a strategic partner for europe, but it cannot be at the expense of citizens and the protection of the environment, which belongs to everyone.
madam president, welcome commissioner hogan, with your new title as trade commissioner. i wish you well for the future. i’m tempted to say you’ve moved out of the frying pan into the fire, because neither portfolios are particularly easy. i think it’s interesting that we’re talking today in this chamber about two things which have yet to see a life, if you like. one is an agreement reached but not yet implemented, the other is a three-word title that we’ve yet to see the details of, and we’re panicking already. i remember way back when peter mandelson was the trade commissioner in your very seat, and at that time irish farmers were particularly alarmed about any prospect of a trade agreement, so you know exactly the point i want to make. it would be helpful if you could give us some reassurances as to what impact you think this deal will have on european farmers, whether there will be a reduction in meat production within europe to satisfy the demands of this trade agreement and whether that is a good or bad arrangement. this morning we voted on a resolution on how to protect pollinators and indeed restore their status, and one of the things that was dealt with was pesticides, plant protection products and a real push to try and use less, and indeed some colleagues would want to ban everything. i don’t think we can do that when it comes to mercosur. we have no control, and many times when we’ve debated this i’ve been told there is equivalence. is it better now in this deal, this idea of equivalence? how can we guarantee that the very strong and, i have to say, fine words you spoke in your speech about the depth of this deal around environmental and other issues – how can we be sure that they will actually be implemented in the mercosur countries?
i have to say, madam president, the advantage of the debate is that the mercosur agreement is not yet ready. we expect a signature perhaps in 2021, and that will of course give us time to develop the agreement further. and i think we need to develop the agreement further because there are some things that are unclear. there is a sustainability chapter, where the implementation and enforcement of the paris agreement on climate change is called for, where sustainable forestry is called for, and where the core labour standards of the international labour organization are called for. but on the other hand, we see that under bolsonaro, there is 60% more illegal deforestation of the amazon than before, that 150 pesticides have been re-authorized that are not allowed in europe, that the protection of the indigenous population's land is no longer regulated by law, and above all, that two laws have been passed that clearly contradict ilo standards 98 and 87, so they represent a violation of exactly what was intended in the agreement. i think that the only thing that can be done is to put three things forward. the first is we need a monitoring system. it must be ensured that products from illegally logged areas cannot enter the european union. it is not enough that this is written down without sufficient means of verification. secondly, we must make the good approaches in the sustainability chapter practical, concrete steps on how to actually implement the issue of sustainable forestry and how to ensure that workers' rights are respected. and thirdly, we really need an enforcement mechanism that does take action. and, madam minister, korea is showing that the existing mechanisms are not working. this is a toothless tiger, and we really need a tiger that can bite.
madam president, although the mercosur deal will result in a significant increase in exports of eu manufactured products, it will not have the same positive effect in the european agriculture sector, which is already facing an unprecedented crisis. and, furthermore, unequal cap funding also contributes to the agricultural crisis in many countries, like in my own country – estonia. and then to add to this the new state religion: climate change. billions of euros will be spent transforming european society in order to achieve so-called carbon neutrality by 2050, and this while countries such as china and india feel no co2 shame and happily continue to grow their economies. this new green deal will come at a terrible cost to the most valuable and treasured members of our society: those who provide us with food, our farmers. apart from the effect the green deal will have on the agricultural sector, it will also gravely affect countries relying on fossil fuels for energy supply, and as a result the workers that earn their living in these sectors. and let’s take again estonia as an example. my country is largely self-sufficient when it comes to energy supply but relies heavily on its domestic oil shale reserves for this. with a new green deal, estonia will be forced to become reliant on other countries for their energy supply. this will in turn jeopardise the country’s competitiveness, but more importantly, its independence and sovereignty. the alternative to fossil fuels was supposedly to be found in biofuels. however, according to recent findings biofuels are not the solution to hunger, environmental disasters or anything else. in fact they will probably make things worse, and the reason for this is simple – physics. the quantities of biofuels needed to generate the necessary energy supply actually increase greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. to put it plainly, wasting energy to produce energy. furthermore, the crops and land that could have been used for food supply are instead used to produce energy, and instead of worrying about the compatibility of the eu mercosur fda and the european green deal, the elected representatives of the european citizens should rather be more concerned about the devastating impact both these initiatives will have on farmers in particular and european citizens in general.
