on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, indeed it would not be in the honour of this house if the morocco-eu agreement would pass without the plenary debate. there are several reasons for this. first of all, there is an extensive case law that indicates that this agreement is against international law, and it’s important that members take an informed vote. secondly, the report is based on the previous rapporteur’s – ms lalonde’s – work, despite serious allegations of conflicts of interests. thirdly, parliament’s legal services have refused to state that the agreement would comply with international law or european case law. so i would appeal to everyone that we will have this debate, and i would particularly ask mr verhofstadt to reconsider his opposition to a debate, because he’s a forerunner of transparency and from the conference of presidents i’ve been told that you were not in favour of an open, transparent debate on this matter.
mr president, i think this is a very good proposal from the s&d group, and mr verhofstadt has indicated to me that they would also be in favour. (laughter)
madam president, after many years of debate and work we are still not close to a solution to the migration crisis. the reason is that the approach of the commission and this parliament has been unrealistic. the left and the centre say that europeans demand solutions. that is true, but europeans do not want bad solutions. the common european asylum system is centred on ideas like solidarity, management and burden-sharing. what most europeans actually want is not just managed immigration but less immigration, because massive third world immigration is damaging to our societies. reducing immigration must be the cornerstone of any european solution. this is already understood in many member states. i hope the next european parliament has the will to deliver what europeans need and want.
the question of the blue card. i am a little surprised that there has not been a single speech on one of the biggest human rights violations in europe, the treatment of the roma, which is taking place in romania. since you are from romania, i would like to ask you whether this is because things have gone better for the roma there, or whether it is because in such a discussion people are usually so polite as not to bring up really difficult issues.
mr president, there are many important issues on the table during the romanian presidency which i hope will be taken forward in the coming months. as regards individual projects, i would like to stress the importance of the directive on the protection of whistleblowers. any person who detects abuses in the private or public sector must be able to report the violations and crimes he or she has observed without fear of reprisals. if protection or prosecution cannot be relied upon, abuses go unreported and the same criminal spending can continue for years. questions have been raised in the council about the legal basis of the directive, on which parliament's or the commission's legal services have not been able to find any comments. this must not mean that the matter is stuck in the council. i hope that the presidency will do everything possible to promote a positive outcome of the negotiations, so that public defenders who report abuses receive minimum protection standards at union level.
mr president, the report on the annual report of the european central bank shows that the eu economy grew at its fastest rate in 10 years in 2017 and that unemployment was at its lowest level since 2008. at the same time, attention is drawn to uncertainties, one of which is the continuing indebtedness of households. often, the debt is the result of short-term interest rates that can reach hundreds of percent, and in extreme cases, thousands of percent, on an annual basis. old debts are paid off by taking on new ones, which can result in years of debt bondage. over-indebtedness is a personal tragedy that results in damage to relationships, health, and overall quality of life. the purpose of the fast-food companies is not to help their customers, but to exploit their financial distress. i have long called for better consumer protection for those who have been victimized by the fast-food industry. the most effective way to deal with this harmful business would be to ban it altogether. i hope i can get broad support for the speeding ban.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, i have to ask you to excuse me. i am sorry that mario draghi is leaving us in the middle of this debate, because it is also about him. i am a little concerned when i listen to the previous discussion because it seemed that some of my colleagues would not really remember what history really looked like in the decades after the second world war. if you look at the economic development from 1945 onwards, you can say that it may have been mainly a lot of devaluations. so, by going that way, they were repairing economic mistakes. this was the case for finland. that was true of others as well. you may recall that britain was in great difficulty even around 1956, and from 1956 onwards we see that the monetary technical, the monetary policy problems are only increasing and increasing. at some point, a young social democratic politician entered the scene. it was willy brandt. he had just been elected chancellor of the federal republic of germany, and when i read what he wrote at the time i get the faint feeling that he was quite exhausted by the rot and by the inability to solve the economic problems that were seen in europe. he therefore proposed that the european states, the eu member states, should solve the problems by creating a european monetary fund, and he offered germany 20% of their currency surpluses to create, so to speak, a nest egg for future solutions. of course, there were conditions attached to this arrangement. one condition was that we learn to follow the rules, and this is where the difficulties arose. i find a rather interesting quote in willy brandt's memoirs beginnings and insights: our ironclad rules of parallelism in our monetary economic decisions have always been true. he says this in german, if you want to hear the original: our iron rule of parallel monetary and economic policy measures had finally been confirmed. this is what happened after willy brandt's initiative, ten, twenty years of increasing and growing problems in the european banking world, in european monetary policy, and at some point the politicians came to their senses and created what we have celebrated today, the 20th anniversary of. so today we have a much more robust system than we ever had before. is that system watertight? does it hold up to all the tests? we know that's not true. during the crisis of 2007 and 2008, we saw that the system was not really able to withstand all the challenges that european banking policy was facing at the time. but after that, we've actually created some rules that work. anyone who has followed economic policy in recent years can see that banco popular - a spanish bank that failed to meet its obligations - was simply dissolved by our current rules. and we have another example that also speaks its own language: the banca carige of genoa has been taken over by the european central bank. we have many problems, we have loans that are not being repaid, we have many other problems, but at any rate we are in a much better position today than we were 10 or 15 years ago, let alone 50 years ago.
mr president, now that ten years have passed since the financial crisis, it is the right time to look back and to give a significant recognition to all the institutions of the union for their handling of the banking crisis and for the achievement of the banking union. i am grateful to the commission for its demands and for its efforts to ensure that we can complete the banking union during this parliamentary term, at least in terms of political understanding. we're missing three things in addition to dealing with the bad credit of the over-indebted. we don't yet have a proper firewall between venture capital and basic banking. legislation on the so-called liikanen report was left half-way through in all the institutions. the second is sustainable finance, i.e. the inclusion of environmental indicators in the activities and lending of banks. and the third factor, which i also include in the banking union, is how we regulate other players, such as peer-to-peer lending and crowdfunding, so that these players are subject to the same level of standards from the consumer's point of view and do not pose a greater risk to retail investors or operators than to the banking sector. these will be left to the next parliamentary term and to the commission and parliament to decide.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. today's discussion has shown that we are actually quite in agreement on the preconditions for how we should proceed with the banking union. we all agree that we need a deposit guarantee. perhaps the most important thing was that we managed to find a formulation that slightly broke out of the old trenches between the various political parties. so we agree that we need a more sustainable system to deal with the challenges that we face. i would like to say something to my colleague viegas, who was concerned about the leverage in the banking world. if we look at the leverage in the banking world, we see that it has declined sharply in recent years. we can also point to great successes in this respect. finally, i would like to thank my colleagues, my shadows as they are called, for their very constructive work. at the same time, i am glad that the discussion we had in this house was also, for the most part, a very substantive discussion which shows the way forward, which shows that parliament is prepared to take the steps which the commission has long called for. i thank commissioner dombrovskis in advance for the proposals which we can eventually expect from the commission as well in order to move forward.
for the alde group mr president, mr commissioner, when we started this long walk and debate on the juncker fund years ago, most of us were perhaps a little skeptical: will it be a wheel that moves forward? now we are a little wiser and we realize that this wheel is really moving, even though some people try to say that it is not. there are of course many challenges now that we are taking the second or third step forward, because investeu is quite a different bicycle than efsi 1 or efsi 2. now we're going to include sources of power outside this institution. when we discussed this in these meetings, there was almost a small doubt whether we could actually accept them with open arms. we are politicians, we easily think of things as if from a state perspective and in a state perspective. while we are talking about private entrepreneurs and small businesses, this state perspective, 'thinking like a state', as the english sometimes say, can be problematic. i therefore wish us success and thank our rapporteurs for this enormous work. perhaps today and tomorrow we will take a giant step forward, and if the council can keep up with the commission and parliament, perhaps tomorrow we will be in a better world.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, it is a bit inconvenient to discuss in such a joint debate such vastly different countries like colombia, peru and central america, and i wish that you could keep the tradition of bringing compact individual implementation reports from a precise country to us so we could discuss them in depth, but i’d like to thank mr böge for his very balanced report on central america. we see very important notions there, for instance the reference to the special production zones and that the trade preferences should not be used there. but let me also express my strong concern on developments in guatemala and the expulsion of the un international commission against impunity, which is a very serious deterioration of the political and business climate in the country. i think we need to be much more stringent on such developments. on colombia and peru. on colombia i think it is now time to activate the human rights clause proper because there are so many killings of human rights activists. and commissioner, i’d like to hear from you about the complaint by the peruvian trade unions on their suspected lowering of environmental and social standards, due allegedly to the free trade agreement. how has the commission followed up this interesting complaint by the peruvian trade unions?
for the alde group mr president, the globalisation adjustment fund was originally set up to support citizens who became unemployed as a result of the major structural changes brought about by globalisation. eu citizens have been able to receive support for re-employment and training. however, today's employment crises are not only the result of changes linked to globalisation. digitalisation and automation are bringing pressure for change to many sectors. a lot of people are worried about their jobs. the new, more flexible fund will respond better to new challenges and help workers better equipped for the needs of the future. the fund is by nature a crisis fund. however, many of the commission's reform proposals would make significant changes to this and should be treated with some reservations. for example, more than 500 redundancies have now been eligible for aid. the commission would halve the threshold and parliament has been keen to reduce it to 200. it is true that in many regions of the eu, the majority of people work in small and medium-sized enterprises. they are affected by the crisis in the whole region. however, the criteria should not be too loose. if the fund is used to support an increasing number of smaller and smaller projects, the fund risks becoming a kind of non-stop tool. small projects require as much management as large ones, so the amount of management would increase. this fund responds to unforeseen circumstances. it is important that it is accompanied by a forward-looking regional and cohesion policy that anticipates the changing needs of employment and the regions. i also hope to support the alde amendments which would allow the fund to provide support for those who lose their jobs as a result of brexit. brexit could have as big an impact as any other structural change. of course, the criteria for aid must be met in other respects.
in writing. unfortunately, the uk's eu divorce does not seem to be resolving itself, but is becoming more and more chaotic. the result of the vote in the british parliament yesterday was not a surprise in itself. the withdrawal agreement negotiated by prime minister may has collapsed in clear numbers (432 202). this means that the means to secure a controlled separation are becoming scarce. the risk of a no-deal divorce is increasing. it's only been two months since britain left the european union. it is not realistic to start new negotiations, given that the agreement which has now been rejected was negotiated for 18 months. we also have no need to open the contract. the withdrawal agreement struck down by the british parliament would have covered the three main objectives that the eu parliament has wanted to secure. the agreement would have safeguarded the rights of eu citizens living in the uk and agreed on the uk's payment obligations to the eu, and would not have created a hard border between the republic of ireland and northern ireland. the main provision of the agreement would have been a transition period until the end of 2020, during which the uk would have complied with all eu laws and paid membership dues, but would not have participated in decision-making. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century. it is clear that britain cannot get a better deal outside the eu than it can as a member. it is hoped that all this chaos in britain will lead to another referendum. it's only fair. now the public has a better idea of what the difference really means. the uk's departure is a great tragedy and shows what can happen when populism goes too far. this is particularly sad for young people who would have liked to remain in the union.
this conversation is over. the vote will be held on thursday 17 january 2019.
the following is the report of mr georgi pirinsk on behalf of the committee on budgetary control on the annual report on the monitoring of the eib's financial operations for the financial year 2017 (2018/2151 (ini)) (a8-0479/2018).
thank you very much, president hoyer, i would like to point out that i am not sure that mr zdrojewski wanted you to speak less. maybe he wanted vice-president katainen to speak more, so it’s a great privilege for us to have you here.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 17 january 2019.
the next item is the report by eider gardiazabal rubial and petri sarvamaan on behalf of the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of the union's budget in the event of generalised deficiencies as regards the rule of law in the member states (com ((2018) 0324 c8-0178/2018 2018/0136 cod)) (a8-0469/2018).
rapporteur. – madam president, democracy is never self—evident. never. this we should keep in mind. one of the most crucial things, if not the most crucial thing to sustain democracy in any state is the rule of law. once the rule of law is questioned, the path to the keys of pandora’s box is open to all, because, my dear colleagues, democracy is never perfect. democracy, through elections, can produce governments and leaders who are tempted to take that walk to pandora’s box and see if they can control it. on their way, they might tamper with the judicial system of the state, or they could find it handy to influence the media so that journalists would not see it in their best interest to criticise those in power. or maybe these political leaders would like to introduce laws that make it more and more difficult for civic organisations to go about their activities, to express their ideas and worries. in doing all this, these governments and their leaders would clearly be undermining the rule of law, which is the central pillar of democracy. this, unfortunately, is nothing but a factual description of what is going on inside the european union today. if we want to safeguard democracy itself, we need to safeguard the rule of law. it has been painfully clear for years already that the presently available legal mechanisms in the union do not stop governments on this dangerous path, and this is why we have this extremely important regulation in front of us. we need a mechanism that will introduce concrete consequences for the member states in question, and that is why the commission wisely followed the will of this parliament – parliament’s multiannual financial framework (mff) resolution – and proposed a budgetary law for co—decision. according to the commission proposal and our final report, in order for the union to protect its financial interests from the risk of financial loss caused by generalised deficiencies as regards the rule of law, the union should be able to impose appropriate measures that include restricting, reducing or even suspending access to eu funding in a manner proportionate to the nature, gravity and scope of the deficiencies. let me finally underline the five things that are most crucial to understand about this legislative report. one: the legal basis for this proposal is in financial regulation, not in article 7. this is about protecting the eu’s budget – taxpayers’ money. two: we want to write a law that is the same for all member states. the rule of law could be in jeopardy in any member state. three: we want to protect the final beneficiaries of eu funds – researchers, civic organisations and ordinary citizens must not suffer due to the freezing or cutting of funds. four: we are talking about generalised deficiencies as regards the rule of law. there would have to be clear and widespread undermining of the rule of law before the budgetary consequences could be launched. and finally, five: our report puts parliament on an equal footing with the council, through a co—decision procedure of a transfer to a budgetary reserve. with these words, i sincerely hope that every member of this chamber takes a close look at this report. when you do, i trust that you will consider it of the utmost importance to support this proposal and give us a strong mandate for the trilogues, since nothing in today’s europe is as important as the rule of law. last, but certainly not least, let me wholeheartedly thank and praise my co-rapporteur, ms gardiazabal rubial, for her excellent work on this report.
for the alde group mr president, the rule of law is the cornerstone of democracy. if it is not respected, cooperation between all eu member states and the activities of citizens will be hampered. with the accession of new members to the eu, member states have committed themselves to certain values and these must be respected. it's about trusting each other. i would point out, however, that this proposal will not solve all the problems, although there are high expectations, even very high expectations. the proposal is about protecting eu money and ensuring that it is used properly. this means that the deficiencies in the rule of law must be linked to the use of eu money. otherwise, it cannot be used and it does not solve the general problems of the rule of law. i am quite sure that the implementation of this proposal will be difficult. in parliament we have tried to protect the final beneficiaries, as indeed we have in the commission, but i suspect that it will be very difficult to ensure that they will eventually receive this money. my group supports this proposal, but i would point out that from a legal point of view this proposal is anything but good legislation. it is complex and bureaucratic, and it will be interesting to see how this works in practice.
rapporteur. – mr president, thank you to everyone for their interventions. i listened to them extremely carefully, of course. let me go in a little bit of an unusual order and do the thanking first and then just say a few final words. so, those that i still have not thanked i thank now, and that is the commission, of course, the commissioner and others working on this, all the shadow rapporteurs and especially the secretariats and the very wise people there in both the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control. then, not the last thing but the thing before the last is this: i especially want to thank those who were constructive, maybe not straight in endorsing either the proposal or the final report, but constructive and who had some reservations and some ideas for the upcoming trilogues. but the last thing i want to say is that i’m extremely depressed. the reason for that is that this is how politics works; we heard a bundle of people tonight who were very dishonest. they were mostly speaking to their national audiences. i have to say this. and for the last two and a half years we’ve been witnessing the tragic farce of the most severe consequences that politics can have for one great nation and for the whole european union. and you know what i’m talking about. and this, unfortunately, is what politics is sometimes. so let’s genuinely try to work for a better europe.
in writing. the eu should increase its resources to safeguard citizens' and fundamental rights. the fundamental rights and values programme provides a good framework for this. the programme needs to be increased in resources. it is particularly important to stop the cuts in funding for work to combat violence against women. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union states that 'the union is founded on the inalienable and universal values of human dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity'. human and fundamental rights belong to everyone everywhere. however, respect for fundamental rights in the member states is selective. in recent years, some member states have been increasingly bold in their attacks on them. in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. in the last couple of years, women's rights have faced particular opposition in some eu countries. the commission has also been concerned about the efforts to undermine women's already achieved rights in relation to sexual and reproductive health. more work must be done to defend fundamental rights. the european union and all member states must urgently ratify the council of europe's istanbul convention, the most comprehensive international treaty against violence against women and domestic violence. thank you, sir.
in writing. transparency in decision-making is a cornerstone of democracy. it is very important for the confidence of the citizens. citizens, the media and stakeholders need to be able to ensure that national governments act on publicly given commitments in preparing for the case. council preparatory meetings and most of the discussions take place behind closed doors. the public access to documents is systematically restricted. the requirements of transparency and democratic control are also circumvented by preparing important decisions in informal settings, such as the eurogroup and the euro summit. the secrecy of the facts increases suspicion, which is detrimental to the reputation of the eu as a whole. it also feeds rumors, fake news, and conspiracy theories. the council's work should be more transparent and its meetings should be open. the legislation on transparency should also apply to the council's informal bodies. in addition, the minutes of meetings should record the positions of individual member states on the matters under discussion. this would enable citizens and journalists to see in practice that national governments are acting on the promises they make in public at their meetings.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, this very important and proud south caucasian nation celebrated one hundred years of its short independence less than a year ago. what happened was that, in the flanks of this ceremony four organisers of an independent independence rally were detained. is this a republic that is newly created and wants to become an important player in the international community and have ever—closer ties to the european union? is this a country that, as a republic, is also entitled to protect the freedoms and rights of its citizens? this doesn’t always seem to be the case to me. i feel that we have a very special relationship with this country because our own grandmother was born in baku 1916. she will be 103 years old in january and she tells wonderful stories about her childhood and about azerbaijan. we have to be aware that, at the same time as the eu is strengthening its contractual relationship with azerbaijan, azerbaijan is unfortunately turning away from its international commitments in the council of europe and the osce. it is not in vain that the commissioner for human rights of the council of europe and the osce representative on freedom of the media are seriously concerned about the situation at the moment, notably about mr huseynov’s situation. as the european parliament, we really must call on the commission and the external action service to do their utmost: if the azerbaijani government wants to have an ever—closer relationship with the eu, they must, unconditionally and immediately, free the political prisoners, including mr mehman huseynov.
rapporteur. – madam president, one of the most important and crucial things needed to sustain democracy in any member state is the rule of law. undermining the rule of law is always dangerous because it clears a way for weakening other democratic elements of the state. this is why we are voting on this report. let me emphasise that this regulation has its legal basis in the financial regulation. article 322 of the treaty, not in article 7. this is about protecting the eu budget from generalised deficiencies as regards the rule of law. another very important thing to understand about this report and proposal is that it has to be, and will be, the same budgetary consequences for every member state that would undermine the rule of law.
rapporteur. – madam president, the oral amendment reads: ‘the prevention and the sanctioning of tax evasion and the proper functioning of authorities contributing to administrative cooperation in tax matters’ – that is deleting words ‘and tax competition’ because tax competition is in the competence of the member states and therefore does not belong in this report.
in writing. violence in all situations is always strongly condemned. in europe there have been many recent acts of violence against public officials and democratically elected politicians. some of the actions have unfortunately resulted in the death of the victim. the most recent examples are the assault on a german parliamentarian and the regional leader of the alternative for germany (afd) party and the murder of the mayor of gdansk a few weeks ago. political debate is often heated and sometimes violent. this is normal and part of political language. in finland, we often say that things fight, but people don't. i don't agree with anything you say, but i fully support your right to express yourself. this quote, often attributed to the french writer and enlightenment philosopher voltaire, touches on the very heart of freedom of speech. in a democracy, there must be room for all kinds of opinions and they must be able to be expressed without the threat of physical violence. it is particularly important that even difficult matters can be discussed without any attempt to silence the discussion. for example, the real problems of migration and the various solutions to them must be brought to the fore without political opponents labelling these legitimate and justified views as hate speech.
this conversation is over. written declarations (article 162) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in venezuela (2019/2543(rsp)). members are informed that no requested speeches will be given in this debate and no blue card questions will be accepted. i have been informed that commissioner stylianides is replacing vice-president mogherini in this debate.
for the alde group. the president of the european parliament the best commissioner! welcome to the "nightclub", where, while the music isn't fun, the psychedelic lighting doesn't make it any easier. all discussions of competition policy in the eu will be about at least three different poles: firstly, preserving the eu's global competitiveness against strong outside forces, secondly, preserving competition within the union's borders and thirdly, ensuring that companies pay their taxes and that we create a fairly level playing field for both small and large companies. to get these three different aspects to always go together is not always a particularly easy operation. when we preserve the eu's competitiveness against global rivals or global competitors, it may sometimes come at the expense of small businesses and the ability of national companies to survive. if we try to preserve small businesses in the national member states, we may at the same time be hindering our international competitiveness a little. so this is not always in balance, and when it happens at the same time in a technological development that is breathtaking, we may be faced with great challenges. in the discussions with the rapporteur and the other shadow rapporteurs we were particularly pleased with the work done by commissioner vestager in this area. she has shown that women in responsible positions in the european union can do things that old men cannot always do. i would also like to thank michel reimon for his excellent cooperation. i'm always afraid when we make our statements that we're creating little christmas trees. i come from a country where we like to see christmas trees and maybe we'd like to sell them. i am therefore glad that this contains as few christmas trees as possible.
author. – mr president, this is a very important moment: it is time to conclude that there is no reason whatsoever not to adopt the directive of 2012 which would make it an obligation for listed companies to reach the minimum 40% share of persons of either sex among their non—executive board members. i’m very surprised that some member states should still be referring to subsidiarity. how can they do that? we have european companies that operate not only in europe but also beyond it, so this should definitely be an issue for european union competence. secondly, we know very well that diversity in all its dimensions – and gender is an important dimension of diversity – expands companies’ views and perspectives in terms of understanding what’s going on in the world and reacting to it in their business strategies. thirdly, there’s no reason whatsoever to say that there are no competent women. that is an excuse for a male—dominated corporate culture in which women are not visible because, perhaps, they do not always share this male—dominated corporate culture and its behaviour patterns. however, it is certain that the competence of women to respond to today’s challenges is at least the same as that of men. there has been ample time for member states to proceed, in voluntary ways, with measures for diversity and for women on company boards, but still we were in a situation where, in 2017 and 2018, women accounted only for 26.3% of board members in the largest publicly listed companies registered in the eu. there is a huge discrepancy – from 7.4% to 43% – and this discrepancy shows that we need measures at european level to advance towards harmonisation of this important aspect. i would like to thank the spanish government for finally taking a second look at this question. and maybe, with the romanian presidency of the council, we can now finally conclude this matter and can declare, before the european elections, that the european union is actively promoting a modern cooperate culture which includes contributions from both women and men. there’s no reason to say that there are no competent women.
on behalf of the ecr group. welcome to the european parliament, prime minister sipilä. the common objective of the european union is surely to increase european prosperity. i would therefore like to draw attention to specific issues, in particular immigration, the safety of citizens, the prevention of tax evasion and the improvement of the protection of whistleblowers. prime minister sipilä, in the fall of 2015, you publicly offered your sprawling nine-bedroom mansion to asylum seekers. news of this spread to the arab media, which further increased the number of visitors. many young men from iraq have said that the prime minister's offer made them come to finland in particular. in addition to the invitation from the prime minister, those considering leaving for europe were able to read in the newspapers descriptions of free education and health care, clean and beautiful nature and beautiful young women with, as al-arabia media put it, 'blond hair, blue eyes and teeth like beads'. the prime minister's own heartfelt invitation was the catalyst for the side effects we are now suffering in the form of high costs and sexual crimes against women and even children. in addition, the sense of security of the citizens has been weakened. prime minister sipilä, do you recognize that as a result of your generous offer, many people have come to finland who have no grounds for asylum and who should never have been allowed into our country? the problems of the countries of origin are not solved by moving their populations to europe, but must be solved at the source. the european welfare states cannot act as the social office of the whole world. in finland, there has been a lot of talk about the state of care for the elderly. the private enterprises providing housing and care services for the elderly have been particularly highlighted. one of them has been over-sparing on staff costs while neglecting patient safety in its budget cut. many companies have also avoided taxes by using interest-rate schemes and by investing the majority of their holdings in tax havens. in addition to eldercare, the cases remind us that we need more effective means of combating tax evasion. it's good to see the imperfections that have been hidden for so long come to light. it is important to create a culture of action where all crimes and offences, such as serious negligence in the care of the elderly, as well as tax evasion and environmental offences, are courageously reported to the supervisory authorities as soon as they are detected. the report also calls for the commission to take action to ensure that the rights of the child are respected. they shall be provided with easy-to-use and confidential reporting channels. i hope that effective whistleblower protection will soon be introduced into legislation in all eu countries, including finland.
mr president, i would like to welcome the prime minister to the european parliament. i am very happy to hear that the commitment of the future country of the presidency is strong. we see that this global situation and shared global challenges and this common future is important. we see that on the other side of the channel they are trying to do something else – with a lot of problems in finding solutions for brexit. arvoisa puhemies ja pääministeri, toitte terveisenne myös ilmastotavoitteiden kiristämisen valmiudesta, ja tämä on viesti, jota tämä talo haluaa ottaa mielellään vastaan. se on juuri samansuuntainen, suurin piirtein samoissa prosenttiluvuissakin liikumme, ja näemme, että tässä tavoitteet ovat yhteisiä ja maailma odottaa meiltä tätä edelläkulkijuutta. näemme myös, että t&k-panostukset ja oikeudenmukainen siirtymä tuovat meille töitä ja hyvinvointia, ja tähän on hyvä sitoutua. yhdyn tässä jean-claude junckerin, komission puheenjohtajan, terveisiin, että arktiset asiat ovat tärkeitä. näissä suomi ei voi laiskotella. euroopalle on tärkeä jokainen lähialueensa raja niin etelässä, idässä kuin myös pohjoisessa. ja arvoisa puhemies, meillä on täällä parlamentissa jo välimeren valtuuskunta, ehkä tulevalle kaudelle voitaisiin nyt jo valmistella myös arktisten asioiden valtuuskunta.
mr president, i am very pleased that you, as an engineer, have emphasised practicality and concreteness in your speeches and have called for this in the work of the union. the unity of the european union, and also its economic sustainability, is being challenged from many directions and in many ways. they force the member states to evaluate again and again the need for cooperation and also their own contribution to make europe stronger in global competition. mr president, i would like to ask you, mr president of the council, what you think could be done to ensure that the burden of, for example, climate change and the burden of migration is distributed as evenly as possible between the member states? i think it would be very important for the citizens' acceptance of and confidence in the union. and it will affect, among other things, the interest and the voting rate of the spring european elections. finally, prime minister sipilä, i would hope that in your next speech you would correct the misconceptions that have been put forward here about the state of finnish forestry.
mr president, prime minister and colleagues, many europeans today still do not feel that they are part of the eu, and it is therefore easy for populists to control their ideas through fear. justice is the key to a safer and more human europe, whether it is about people's livelihoods, work or the fight against climate change, so that everyone can participate in their own way, not be excluded. how will finland, during its presidency, promote solutions of justice and inclusion so that europe is the experience of the people, our own europe, not just the europe of money and markets and the economy?
mr president, first of all, welcome prime minister sipilä to the european parliament, this is what has been called the conscience of europe. there is so much going on here, and it is always about human rights issues, which are very important today. i was a little disappointed in your speech on economic policy because it had a little of yesterday's tone. you have put a lot of emphasis on budgetary discipline and at the same time finland is once again ranking among the few neoliberals. the other thing that i was disappointed with was this immigration policy part, because it had a return tone to it, too. actually, we should be having a conversation on a whole different note right now. especially as we approach the 20th anniversary of the first european immigration policy in tampere, finland, the debate should be about more than just returns. but thank you and thank you to the president of the commission for bringing up the issue of arctic cooperation. it is also an area where relations between russia and the eu work well and is therefore valuable.
mr president, and mr prime minister, welcome to this debate. usually, though, it is done with the sign that it is easier to see the rich in the neighbor's eye than the speck in your own. i would like to make two points here, you spoke of a balanced budget and at the same time you spoke of the great demands and challenges facing europe. i don't think this setup really works like a real engineer's arithmetic. we need, as you also said, balanced compromises, and finland will now be the broker of these balances during its presidency. i would hope that the present finnish government, which may not be in office for long, will take this matter very seriously and then deal with it in such a way that we can look forward to finland's presidency with pride.
president juncker said that even some of the eu's founding members could learn from finland. this means that finland has always wanted to build the european union. now, i'd like to ask you two questions. what is finland's position and how do you assess the possibilities of achieving the adoption of certain tax decisions by qualified majority instead of the current situation whereby a single member state can block tax decisions? this would be the way to crack down on tax evasion and safeguard the financial base of the welfare state. i know that this is on the council's table and that finland, at least in principle, has not been very happy to support this because it is a matter of state sovereignty, but are you prepared to change your position on this? the second issue is corporate responsibility. in finland there is a very active campaign to introduce such a corporate responsibility law. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. could this be the priority for the finnish presidency?
mr president, mr prime minister, it is a pleasure to see you here in the european parliament, and especially in a year like this, when finland is preparing for its third eu presidency. it is important for the european parliament to hear what finland's priorities are. i must say that i was a little surprised and perhaps a little disappointed by the small role played by education, skills and research in that speech. if we think about what has been the basis of finland's success in the past decades, it has been precisely that we have a good education, a good level of competence and good research. it has made finland one of the most innovative countries in the world. it is precisely the message that europe needs for its own future, if we are to think about how to create sustainable growth in europe, how to remain competitive in this situation, when the digital economy is changing the world. the european union is not only a great partner in the fight against unemployment, but also a partner in the fight against poverty. this is precisely where we need good skills, training, high-quality research. i hope that this will also be finland's strong message for the forthcoming presidency. the european parliament wants to increase european research funding by 50%. finland is one of the countries that has made research funding one of the mff's main priorities. i would now like to have confirmation as to whether this is the line that finland will take in the mff negotiations.
mr president, the speech by finnish prime minister juha sipilä was concrete, forceful and a speech about the future, which was particularly warm during finland's presidency of the european union. you presented the use of our forestry expertise. finland's land area is almost 70% forested, so we have someone who knows how to manage forests and also how to use them sustainably. the european and african forestry fund must be supported from both a climate and employment perspective. however, the views of the members of this house and of the european parliament should also be directed towards the arctic issues. the arctic region, where i live, has a lot of potential and a lot to offer europe. we have a wealth of natural resources, nature, know-how above all, but we also urgently and passionately need european contributions here in the arctic. that's what i hope for the future.
mr president, prime minister sipilä, you will find that you are welcome here, when the finns have so many questions that it is beginning to feel as if this is question time in parliament, but we here in the european parliament behave better than at question time in the finnish parliament, we do not make noise. my question is about the emphasis you placed on the implementation of decisions. i agree with you that one major shortcoming is that ambitious decisions are taken but then not implemented by the member states. i would ask you, is it more the fault of the member states? what can be done to make homework a shared activity? have these decisions been sufficiently well prepared here in the council of the european union, and there in the meetings of the prime ministers? because it seems strange that after these meetings, you declare results and goodwill and then, when you go home, nothing happens. what can be done? what would you do to ensure that the joint decisions are implemented?
mr president, fair competition policy is an important objective which we must pursue, and it was easy to vote in favour of the report. large companies gain a significant and unfair competitive advantage over small and medium-sized enterprises by avoiding and circumventing taxes. big business seems to be playing by its own rules, even taking advantage of illegal government subsidies. as the report states, tax evasion is harmful to honest taxpayers and to the public economy. it also threatens good governance, macroeconomic stability and social cohesion, as well as citizens' trust in the institutions of the union and the member states. within the eu, there are regions that have contributed to the creation of low-cost, competition-distorting tax regimes for multinational companies and wealthy individuals. member states should abandon these fraudulent and harmful competition practices. commissioner vestager deserves credit for her work in promoting fairer competition and for the heavy fines imposed on large companies for breaching competition law.
for the alde group mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr gardin, for his excellent work. it is excellent that the ultimate responsibility, or the outcome of this case, is that the primary responsibility for the emergency services remains with the member states. the eu's common resources are used only as a last resort and as a support. no member state can and should outsource its emergency response mechanism to other member states. that would be dangerous and irresponsible, because we know that when disaster strikes, we must act immediately. the beginning is the most important. if we have to wait for rescue services to come from the other side of europe, the damage will be multiplied. the member states have the primary responsibility for preventing the destruction, but the eu also has a role to play. the eu has a supporting role and this kind of advance cooperation, disaster preparedness, must be enhanced and also the compatibility of devices. but each member state must itself procure the main rescue equipment and the compatibility of these instruments is important. they've already brought up forest fires. it is also important to make a preventive effort to avoid forest fires. it's possible, but not perfect.
mr president, crossborder healthcare services will become increasingly important in the future, both in terms of the well-being of patients and the limited resources available. in order to target the best expertise to the patients who need it, and the resources that are available to the patients who need them, we need this flexibility, and the further healthcare evolves, the more. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur and the commission for their active efforts. i think it is a shame that so many member states have either not implemented the directive, have not informed their citizens, or have implemented it in a completely wrong way, for example, in the area of compensation. this is a kind of evasion of responsibility for the welfare of the citizens and the rational use of resources, a kind of petty politics which we cannot accept. it is therefore necessary to take very swift and effective measures to bring the member states to justice in this matter, if necessary.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes).
mr lamassoure, you have felt the undivided support of the house for the important message that you have given. we have, of course, all seen your work over 30 years. the house wishes you all the best in your future endeavours. (applause)
that concludes the vote.
mr president, the welfare of patients and the right to quality care across borders are important, which made it easy to vote in favour of the report. the crossborder healthcare directive benefits, for example, tourists and exchange students travelling in other eu countries if they have to use healthcare services while outside their home country. the directive has been a complicated one. the commission had to open infringement proceedings against up to 26 member states for late or incomplete implementation. all member states have now indicated that they have taken the necessary measures. it is of paramount importance that citizens are aware of all their rights. the commission should also be able to request the member states to provide information on the implementation of the union's health policy and to provide the commission with a report on the implementation of the union's health policy. it is therefore important to increase awareness of this issue among both patients and healthcare professionals.
this conversation is over. (the sitting was suspended at 2.35 p.m.)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, in societies which have a good welfare state, democracy, openness and respect, women usually do well, and vice versa when women do well, societies do well on these aspects. that’s why the backlash on the women’s position is a canary in the mine, not only on the question of women but on the whole state of society. and there are lengthy experiments and research showing that when women suffer, societies are on the way to limiting democratic rights, limiting the welfare state and limiting other aspects of freedom. women do not have the choice or the liberty to ask whether they are discriminated against as women or for other reasons – because women make up more or less half and half of workers, entrepreneurs, emigrants or disabled people. so women face multiple discrimination. and yes indeed, we in europe have seen a backlash throughout the last years, especially in some member states. women are human and human rights apply to women and women’s rights, including sexual and reproductive rights, are a part of human rights, so we need the commission to tackle even more strongly this backlash and challenge our member states in their activities in all fields of life.
in writing. i support the view in the parliament's report that research, screening, diagnosis, monitoring, treatment and post-treatment support should be increased to combat cancer. one in three europeans will develop cancer during their lifetime. men and women have different types of cancer. breast cancer is the most common cancer among women in finland. every year more than four thousand women in finland develop breast cancer. different approaches and targeted policies are needed for the diagnosis and prevention of cancers in men and women. in finland, breast cancer screening is a great example. people aged 50 to 69 are invited to be screened every two years. this is to detect breast cancer at an early stage, when treatment is more effective. in finland, the prognosis for breast cancer is good: 89% of patients are alive five years after diagnosis. the mortality rate is lower among women who participate in screening, and this can prevent dozens of breast cancer deaths each year. the european commission has already proposed a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease.
madam president, i have just heard my colleague saying ‘you can’t do it, that’s against human nature’. i would say it’s even more against human nature to destroy our planet and living conditions quite deliberately. that you can’t do but sustainable development – yes – you can do and you can do it profitably. so it is just a matter of taking the initiative, so thank you to the commission for the sustainable finance and circular economy packages. yes, we need to line up the future, set out what are going to be the next steps, because we are seeing the exponential growth of the challenges. that means that we need to act now, and we need to act with the right level of ambition. i would have five suggestions. firstly, the monitoring platform. that is linked to sustainable finance, put it to work and harmonise the indicators and lifecycle analyses. secondly, the renewable eco-design directives, so that it is horizontal. thirdly, specific programmes on food, sustainable food, so this concerns the whole lifecycle, buildings – they are a major element – and textiles, there is going to be a growing challenge in the area. and then on sustainable finance we need to review the existing financial regulation to include the sustainability principles. i would say yes, it’s pretty much there where we can gain the sustainable elements if we can make the commission deliver and then parliament and the council to deliver in turn.
mr president, regional development and cohesion funds are a very important part of eu policy and budget. we have a third of our resources devoted to this purpose and it is of course important that we can support the outermost and less developed regions and thus also promote their investment and future. in future, however, when funding is reduced somewhat, it is essential to choose the priorities for this policy. i think it is very good that the focus has now been on innovation, investment in clean energy, the circular economy, the promotion of digitalisation and, above all, of course, modern, intelligent infrastructure. i welcome the commission's proposal to allocate eur 10 billion of the cohesion funds to the networked europe project, which could specifically support large crossborder transport projects. the free movement of people, goods and services between countries is essential for the development of the european internal market. this is a good and welcome proposal and i am disappointed that the committee on regional development is now dropping that amount. it is also a very good proposal to try to reduce the administrative and bureaucratic burden on this programme, because we know that this is a major obstacle to the efficient implementation of these financial projects. i also think it is important that we can promote a regulation to make future funding subject to the rule of law. we have at the moment eu member states which receive very significant resources for regional development and cohesion, but which no longer respect and observe the rule of law. this is a very worrying development and there must be a possibility of freezing funding from these countries in the future.
mr president, fair taxation and the creation of a just society are things that we all, or at least most of us, want here. yet some mysterious force seems to be preventing justice from being served. large multinational companies, which also have the power to participate in the design of tax legislation and the ability to hire a large number of top experts to design and promote tax avoidance models, almost invariably pay significantly lower taxes than small and medium-sized enterprises. in the worst cases, these large companies' tax rates fall to below 1%. many private health-care companies have participated in tax evasion, and in finland they have also made headlines for gross neglect of elderly care. these companies live off tax money, but the most aggressive of them do not want to contribute to paying their share. this cannot be accepted and we must take a strong stance.
mr president, it’s extremely important that, this time, we do even better and more coherent work on health technology assessment than the commission and parliament have so far managed, because the regulatory framework is either disabling or enabling, depending on whether you look at it from the patient’s perspective, the user’s perspective or the competitiveness and business perspective. if we have 28 different kinds of regulation, there’s always this unfair and unjust practice. some get the applications and some do not, and you can’t create european e—health digital medical devices and medicines, to be provided for everybody, if you have 28 different kinds of regulation. so it is vital that we have an enabling european framework, with only very stringent exceptions, to be there for the patients’ and markets’ sake.
for the alde group mr president, i would like to thank commissioners hogan and de castro, the rapporteur on agriculture, and the negotiators from all the groups for the excellent cooperation they have shown in bringing this important directive to a successful conclusion within the deadline. we shall be voting on a very balanced legislative text, which proves that when there is political will, a difficult matter can be achieved in a short time, even if the background is long. the directive will give producers in difficulty a concrete boost to their position on the food market. this is an important message from the eu to producers who are being asked to do more and more and who have been subjected to regrettable cuts. as a farmer myself, i know that the result is more to be expected from the market than from aid. i have often been asked what this directive means in practical terms for farmers. i could sum it up in three words. first, producers can also complain to the national supervisory authority about the behaviour of buyers located in other countries. this will significantly lower the threshold for food exports. secondly, the directive creates a strong steering force, because there are sanctions for non-compliance. and perhaps most importantly, the directive also provides a strong backbone for national parliaments to legislate on their own, which can indeed be even tougher than this directive. i really hope that this will have the full support and backing of this parliament.
rapporteur. – mr president, i am extremely happy to say that the voluntary partnership agreements on forest law enforcement, governance and trade are an excellent example of combining a trade instrument with sustainable development. there is also a direct link between this voluntary partnership agreement with vietnam and the european union and vietnam free trade agreement: namely, chapter 13, on sustainable development, of the free trade agreement, which still has to be ratified, has a reference to the implementation of this voluntary partnership agreement. i would like to emphasise that this is an excellent instrument for addressing deficiencies of governance, not only in the forestry sector but in the state system as a whole. i am talking about the functioning of customs, border guards etcetera. vietnam is now the third country in asia that has entered voluntary partnership agreement negotiations with the european union and i am extremely happy that vietnam has committed to eradicating illegal timber from its supply chains. i visited vietnam in january in my role as rapporteur. my hosts emphasised that vietnam’s aim is to become the world’s biggest producer of timber products. this is all the more reason to ensure that vietnam sources and processes only legal timber. vietnam has a new forestry law in force since january this year. it unequivocally prohibits imports of illegal timber. this effectively means that timber imports from cambodia should no longer take place – and here work needs to be done, including with cambodia. in that context, it is also extremely worrying that global witness has found a surge in imports from the democratic republic of congo, which is known to be a high-risk country. this issue has to be tackled in the course of the implementation of the voluntary partnership agreement. it is of critical importance that vietnam makes sure illegal imports are effectively stopped: simply relocating the sourcing to new high-risk countries is clearly not the solution. i expect vietnam to enforce its forestry law swiftly and effectively, and it should consult all the stakeholders. the eu is ready to help. – mr president, the eu for its part should ensure sufficient resources in supporting vietnam while it implements the crucial reforms. the eu is also in the process of drafting a new action plan on deforestation and forest degradation. innovations similar to the voluntary partnership agreements are required in order to address the global challenge of deforestation. as we know, deforestation has become ever more critical as the scientific understanding of its importance to climate change has grown. the voluntary partnership agreements are a crucial part of the solution, as legal instruments are needed to step up the fight against deforestation globally. the eu needs to put in place strong measures to eradicate fully deforestation from european products that it wants to export to us and from the supply chains. by the way, this approach could also be applied to other risk products such as coffee, cocoa and palm oil. vietnam is facing a huge task. after the ratification, which is expected to happen tomorrow, it will have to fulfil the commitments of this agreement. i have all the confidence that vietnam will tackle this challenge with the seriousness that it deserves. this is not, and certainly cannot be, a mere bx-ticking exercise. only once this parliament is fully assured of the complete implementation and once it is convinced of the eradication of illegal timber from vietnamese wood products will it be able to agree to issue licensees to vietnam.
for the alde group mr president, i would like to thank heidi grafalla. indeed, preventing deforestation and increasing carbon stocks are issues that have a significant impact on combating climate change. we have to look at this in a very broad way. we must look at the long term and also at the global perspective. at the same time, we must ensure that forests are managed sustainably at local level, as exemplified by finland and other countries in europe. i am pleased that the eu is supporting vietnam with this voluntary partnership agreement. vietnam has taken the right steps towards sustainable forestry and is now committed to ensuring that timber products and wood products entering the eu are legally produced. this will also improve the development of the forestry sector in the areas adjacent to vietnam. i also want to support a comprehensive and very modern trade agreement between vietnam and the eu, which would bring more jobs and prosperity to vietnam and europe. it is in europe's interest to have a trade agreement come into force quickly, because only then will we be able to ensure that the standards that are important to us are met.
rapporteur. – mr president, i want to thank you, commissioner, and your colleagues. we did a great job together, and it is a pleasure to see that the whole parliament is likely to support this voluntary partnership agreement between the eu and vietnam. this is probably the most effective trade instrument we have in order to combat the negative developments that are making it impossible to implement true sustainable development. so let us use this instrument and see that there is, as the commissioner and colleagues have pointed out, this regional dimension: we have to be aware that southeast asia is one of the three hot spots of deforestation in the world. the second is the congo basin and the third one is latin america. in all these areas, we have voluntary partnership agreements under way. i expect the commission to take the recent revelations of organised crime, illegal logging and illegal timber trade in southeast asia extremely seriously. this has been shown by the environmental inspection agency in myanmar, and we now have credible allegations that vietnam has started to replace imports from cambodia with imports from the drc. the drc is something that we have to look into in terms of the illegal timber trade. i am very happy to hear from the commission that it will inform the european parliament about the different steps in the implementation of this voluntary partnership agreement. i believe that the two committees that have been most involved – the committee on international trade and the committee on development – will gain more and more interest in this instrument. thank you very much and i hope that tomorrow we can ratify the agreement and the accompanying non-legislative resolution.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, unfortunately, eu-russia relations are not in a good shape and the reasons are well known: russian violations of the principles of international law in ukraine, the annexation of crimea, russia’s support for the extreme right and populist national parties and governments in the eu, such as mr orbán in hungary, and the spread of disinformation and fake news. in such times of tension, it is important to do everything possible to reduce escalations. unfortunately, this report doesn’t serve that purpose. the implementation of the minsk agreements would demonstrate russia’s goodwill with regard to solving the conflict in eastern ukraine. we need to engage in consultations with russia to reduce the risk of misunderstanding. one official platform for such consultations is our interparliamentary dialogue within the eu-russia delegation. i believe such a dialogue is an important tool just in times of tensions. therefore, both sides should remove the obstacles for dialogue to take place again. we need to continue our pragmatic engagement with russia in areas of common interests and with regard to global governance. the northern dimension initiative, cross-border cooperation and the barents euro-arctic council are good examples for constructive engagement that benefits citizens. it is really important that we step up the protection of human rights defenders. for people-to people-contact, erasmus+ is highly popular and its funding needs to be increased.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we have heard in the previous statements, both from the council and from the commission, the usual apologies and explanations. if you cut the whole argument short, you could say that each party actually said, this isn't our fault. and i think there's a serious circular reasoning here. if you listen closely to the way the problem was described, it was briefly described like this: because there are no women who have the necessary knowledge at a lower level, they never reach a higher level. that's where the problem lies. it is the same explanation that we hear at airports when they say that the plane is delayed because it is delayed. that's not an explanation. "due to late incoming aircraft" is the usual explanation we get, and "late incoming" is the gender balance decision. this is not just a formal question, it's also a substantive question, because we know that brains are a little different. my female colleagues sometimes say that if a man thinks - if a man thinks, it's not always the case that we do that - he does it in a slightly different way than a woman, with perhaps less of a holistic view. we saw this also during the crisis that started in 2008. the big banks, their entire management structure was man-made and the decisions were systematically wrong. we would also have handled that crisis much better if we had had a more equal distribution of the sexes in the decision-making bodies of the banks.
mr president, parliament has repeatedly stated that there are not enough women in the economic and financial leadership and every time it promises to correct the situation next time. this is not working. it is not a question of not having girls in education and women who are qualified and in leadership positions in the national economy, economics and both public and private finance or in financial supervision. the question is whether this qualification is seen, whether people are nominated and whether alternatives are introduced into this process that promote gender equality, and then it is not just about equality, although it is an important pillar. the question is quality: are we leaving half the nation's resources and talents unused in decision-making? i propose that in future we should move towards the proposal - as parliament has proposed for the commissioners-designate - that each member state should nominate both a woman and a man when appointing these posts.
the president, sirpa pietikäinen, made an excellent speech. it is certainly not that there are no qualified women in finance and in the european central bank. they just can't be found or don't want to be found. or is there really anyone who could seriously claim that there are no qualified women in the european union's member countries for financial positions or for the european central bank? i want to say that i strongly disagree with what sośnierz said. he spoke badly of women. but i must also say that it is good that this divergent opinion is also being brought up, because in fact such a position - although perhaps not in such a degrading sense - is quite common in europe, otherwise women would have been put forward for office and there would be many more of them, because there is a qualification - it is a question of attitudes.
in writing. there is no doubt that there is a lot of work being done on gender equality in all eu member states, although our situation is generally much better than in many african and asian countries, for example. in many management positions, such as banking and finance, we also have a significantly lower proportion of women than men. to achieve greater equality between women and men in practice, it is important to facilitate the reconciliation of work and family life. it is important to ensure that children's day care is of a good standard and is available. the debate also presented the use of gender quotas as one way of achieving gender balance. i think that quotas are the wrong way to correct imbalances, because so-called positive discrimination is discrimination. generally, no one wants to be elected to office or to a position because of his or her sex but because of his or her own ability and qualifications. each person has his own individual interests. women and girls should be encouraged to apply for training in fields and jobs that interest them, even at a more demanding level. it is important that young people have role models that concretise this and show that women can also successfully advance to high positions and do even better than men.
mr president, today the world has seen a sweeping wave of autocratic governments and strongmen, and our human rights toolbox needs to respond to these changes. by the way, we need only to listen to the debates in this parliament, this very week, to understand that the situations in countries like russia, china, turkey, nicaragua and kazakhstan are totally anti-democratic and put the international human rights obligations of those countries into question. so the eu human rights toolbox must adapt. the global sanctions regime is one of the best tools for doing just that. the eu comprehensive sanctions regime for human rights violations is long overdue. to make it a success, it is vitally important that the new regime is legally sound and complies in full with the highest standards of due process. the listings should be based on hard evidence and on open source information and should be strictly rights based, as opposed to geostrategic, financial or other bases: that is the only way to guarantee political legitimacy. we do not wish to see symmetry with the us sanctions regime, as it does not have adequate judicial safeguards. i’m very grateful that the high representative and the council have undertaken an open approach to this possible new instrument, understanding that it’s a complex system that must be put in place. we cannot afford to fail.
mr president, the spread of disinformation on social media and traditional media is a threat to democracy. it is important that citizens receive accurate information in order to make informed and fact-based voting decisions. social media community services like facebook have a huge responsibility to identify and remove disinformation from their platforms. it is important to detect influence polls based on false and misleading information as soon as possible before they become widespread. the commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market. the active fake user accounts, numbering in the millions, must also be removed as quickly as possible. for example, advances in technology have made it easier than ever to make fake videos that look real. the prevention of the spread of lies must be done, above all, through education and awareness-raising. i would stress the importance of promoting media literacy in solving the problem.
mr president, this is a significant step after more than ten years of hand-wringing and struggle for human rights, for fundamental rights, for the rights of the disabled, which are human and fundamental rights. but this is only the first step. we need to create an enabling environment. it means the built environment, housing, various products and above all the step here taken in digital services, which threaten to exclude a large number of people. information technology can be a great enabler for all disabled people and the elderly, or it can be a great discriminator and excluder. the next steps, therefore, both at member state level and at commission level, should be to involve the different user groups, the disabled and the elderly, in the design of services and products, in user-oriented design so that they are available - just as in the living and living environments - whatever the limitations in the areas of sight, hearing, touch, movement, memory or cognition. we owe it to ourselves, we are the ones who are now leading the way, now just boldly forward.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. it was with some interest that i read through the list of those blacklisted. the interest was because we've been doing this thing for quite a while. i have sargentini next to me in this chamber, and it is about six years since we tried to put these lists in order, without really putting them in order. as i read through the argument about which countries have been put on this list, i am even more surprised by the simple reason that in all the banking scandals we have seen in recent times there is a recurring pattern. that pattern is called russia. it may be that those who write this list have quite a bit of experience with how the russian system works. i've actually lived in the country for six years. i have to say, i'm deeply surprised that people aren't taking this more seriously. since the collapse of the soviet union, we have seen a systematic theft of state and other property, which is then converted into property in europe or in tax havens through various channels. that's been the pervasive feature of all the banking scandals we've seen. the fact that russia is not on this list suggests to us that there is not really serious consideration of how to deal with this, and this is reflected in a decreased confidence in the european institutions. our job is to guard trust and to make sure that what we do in the international arena is also of that quality, of that caliber, that our citizens believe that we are actually out there trying to sort out money laundering, terrorist financing and tax havens.
this conversation is over. the vote will be held on wednesday 13 march 2019. written declarations (article 162) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
the next item is the report by tanja fajon on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the proposal for a financial instrument for border security and visa policy (com ((2018) 0473 c8-0272/2018 2018/0249 cod)) (a8-0089/2019).
this conversation is over. the vote will be held on wednesday 13 march 2019. written declarations (article 162) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
the next item is the report by ms monika hohlmeier, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation on the internal security fund (com ((2018) 0472 c8-0267/2018 2018/0250 ((cod)) (a8-0115/2019).
this conversation is over. the vote will take place on wednesday 12 march 2019. written declarations (article 162) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. i met ten-year-old lilly with her mother in strasbourg. we happened to be staying at the same hotel. we were both so happy to meet each other. lilly lives in the netherlands and is one of the youngest climate strikers to have demonstrated week after week at school on fridays. he was one of 60 young climate activists invited to the european parliament this week. it's just so great and wonderful that young people are doing this - striking and taking a stand for the climate. children and young people should be able to trust the future, to have a positive attitude towards it and to plan their own lives with a clear mind. it is the responsibility of politicians to ensure this. the failure of the policy is shown by the fact that sufficient decisions are not taken from year to year and from decade to decade, when young people have to take responsibility and show their will to save the planet. we know very well that the ambition of climate policy must be doubled compared to current decisions and that on this basis the 2030 climate targets must be adjusted accordingly. the eu should set a target of at least 55% reduction by 2030.
in writing. the uk's exit from the eu is becoming more and more complex. no constructive proposal is ever going to find a majority. the vote in the british parliament yesterday was not a surprise. the withdrawal agreement negotiated by prime minister may has failed again in clear numbers. in britain, the law still applies, and the divorce will take effect two weeks later, on friday, march 29, at 11 p.m. the time for negotiation has now been exhausted and a contractual termination is no longer possible by the deadline. the risk of an uncontrolled divorce without a contract has already grown so great that the game should be stopped at this time. i hope that the british parliament will next be able to ask for a short extension of time for negotiations. the european union should grant that extra few months on condition that the british present some plan for the future. a sensible plan would be to hold a new referendum, as now the british people have a better idea of what leaving the eu really means to them. the preparations for the withdrawal have already created a lot of uncertainty for many eu citizens. the negotiations have made it clear that the uk would like to continue to be involved in almost all eu activities. therefore, staying in the eu would still be the best option.
mr president, good air quality is essential to the well-being of all of us, which made it easy to vote in favour of this important matter. i am very pleased that the resolution also takes account of indoor air pollution. people spend most of their time indoors, where the air quality can be considerably worse than outdoors. we have a lot of people who are going to be sick for the rest of their lives because of exposure to bad indoor air. in finland, for example, it is estimated that as many as eight hundred thousand people are exposed to indoor air problems daily, both at home and at work. many of those exposed have even lost their ability to work. the damage caused by heat and moisture affects a large number of public and private buildings, such as day-care centres, schools, office buildings, hospitals and residential buildings. clean air is an important part of the health and well-being of all of us, which is why i support action to improve air quality.
the next item is the report by esther de lange and roberto gualtieri, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 575/2013 as regards minimum standards for the recovery of losses relating to non-performing exposures (com ((2018) 0134 c8-0117/2018 2018/0060 ((coc)) (a8-0440/2018).
this conversation is over. the vote will be held on thursday 14 march 2019.
the next item is the interim report by pedro silva pereira and vladimír maňka, drawn up on behalf of the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation (eu) establishing the european monetary fund (2017/0333r ((app)) (a8-0087/2019).
madam president, listening to this discussion, i sometimes get the feeling that we are suffering from economic amnesia. we don’t know the history. we are speaking as if the mismatches of the economy appeared with the euro. i’ll give you one example, just one example. go back in british history to 1956. what you had in britain in 1956 was a deficit budget and an over-valued pound and then you had the crisis there. crisis mismatches have been part of the history of europe since, well, since the beginning of history. there was one good german, even if german bashing has been very popular in this house. willy brandt, in 1969, came to a meeting of the european council and said that germany was ready to give 30% of its currency surplus to europe as starting money for a european monetary fund, but on one condition: europe had to be able to manage its economy and if it couldn’t, it shouldn’t come to this house and blame others for something it had done itself. so, thank you, but read the history and try to understand what this is all about.
is there a problem with the interpretation now? can we fix it? okay. voimme siis jatkaa.
mr president, the creation of the european monetary fund is a logical continuation of the stability mechanism which was set up after the financial and euro crisis, when it became clear that the member states were unable to voluntarily safeguard the stability and growth pact and also the financial capacity in a time of crisis. it thus forms a whole with sixpack and twopack and it is essential that it should be an independent body, operating under the union's legislation and not under the discretion of the member states. its tasks should include taking decisions and decisions on the basis of commonly agreed principles and legislation. i think this is essential when we look at stability in the longer term. or do you think that the member states will decide on aid packages for germany, france, malta and cyprus with the same criteria and the same rigor? if we really want a mechanism with market predictability and therefore credibility, we need in the longer term an imf with an independent status, without the individual consideration of the member states. we are at the stage where we are in decision-making and have logically moved on from the previous confusing situation of the stability and growth pact, but there is still a lot of work to be done on this issue, as well as on the development of emu as a whole.
for the alde group mr president, the sdgs were agreed four years ago. a lot of work has been done on them, but the work is still in progress. only a handful of eu countries meet the 0.7% target for development finance. eu countries are poorly placed in terms of sustainability of consumption and production patterns. over 22% of eu citizens live in poverty or at risk of social exclusion, and inequalities have increased. in particular, the eu must understand the universality of the sdgs. achieving them requires consistency across all policy areas. for example, the transition to climate neutrality, resource efficiency and a circular economy are key to strengthening the eu's growth and competitiveness. the commission will follow suit in drawing up a comprehensive strategy. the reflection paper, which proposes a strategy, is very welcome. to develop a strategy, ambition and leadership are needed. the next eu financial framework is being negotiated and a new commission and parliament will be elected soon. we therefore have a valuable opportunity to anchor the sdgs at the heart of eu policy. i hope that at the sibiu summit in romania in may, the eu will show leadership and bring sustainable development strongly into the debate on the future of europe.
madam president, the commission’s reflection paper shows that the sustainable development goals (sdgs) must guide all the eu’s policy work as a matter of urgency. we need an overarching eu sustainability strategy and, likewise, concrete and time-bound deliverables for 2030. the sdgs also require a new way of policy making, which must be cross-sectoral and not embedded in silence. all the policies and all the institutions of the eu must be geared towards achieving the sdgs. in the european parliament, we also need strong mechanisms which involve all policy sectors, from agriculture to industry, from transport to employment, and everything in between. the european parliament, with this report, shows that it wants to achieve this new way of making policy and parliament is going to send a delegation to the high-level political forum and it is crucial that the european parliament will be present this year, as the eu itself will report on its progress. we need to look at global supply chains and i thank you very much, vice-president timmermans, for mentioning responsible business conduct, it’s a key to achieving our goals. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – this is a wonderful question. i can tell you, young man, that i was a co-founder of a vegetarian restaurant in 1974 when i was just a kid, and i have followed that path all my life.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the generalised scheme of preferences (gsp) instrument has a great potential to ensure that trade and sustainable development are intrinsically linked. but the effectiveness of the gsp system has been put into question. it does not necessarily improve social and environmental conditions, it does not necessarily promote human rights. i believe that a black and white approach of withdrawing tariff preferences from a whole country also has not proved effective. we have examples such as myanmar and cambodia and i think the options have to be increased. i believe that instead of a whole economy, the eu should be able to target certain economic sectors with gsp instruments. moreover, it should be able to use targeted sanctions against companies that breach human rights or other obligations. so, we should be able to blacklist companies or exporters that are found guilty of abusing human rights. i’d like to ask the commissioner: are you ready to establish a complaint mechanism for victims of european union enterprises in the context of the gsp+?
author. – madam president, it’s very important that the european parliament now addresses the worsening human rights and democratic standards situation in kazakhstan. this is a country which has signed an enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement with the european union and this agreement aims at providing a broad framework for reinforced political dialogue. there is no doubt that the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms and principles of market economy and sustainable development must be at the core of the negotiations. now we know that there are many victims of politically motivated charges. there are many political prisoners, there is torture in the prisons and we, as the european union, must react to the worsening of the situation. we must also address the situation of trade union activists – i’m mentioning two names, there are more in our common resolution – nurbek kushakbaev and amin eleusinov were released on parole in may 2018, but they remain banned from trade union activities. this is not possible, with a country which has an enhanced partnership ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the europeans have elected almost 37% of women to this european parliament, and when we make appointments, the european citizens cannot participate directly, so the responsibility is ours. it is regrettable that even in this sitting today we have only been able to appoint three men, but before that we had a good discussion about the appointment of women. we are again calling on the european parliament to ensure that when member states propose names they always present a man and a woman, but we should go further and include women in the nomination too, and at the moment the situation is not good. there are 11 european institutions, two of which are headed by women. it's far from the will of the people. the main chairs in general, as i calculated last week, are only 25% female. nine commissioners, but no woman has ever been president of the commission. the situation is changing very slowly and therefore real action is needed to break the glass ceiling and to take a closer look at gender equality in future appointments.
mr president, the commission has presented two possible road maps for how to get to net zero emissions by 2050 at the latest, but that goal means that we have to tighten up the targets already for 2030. today, again, parliament has voted in favour of the target of 55% reduction in emissions by 2030, i.e. 55% of the 1990 level. this objective is also supported by several member states, and it is very desirable that my own country, finland, when it takes over the presidency of the eu next july, will also be able to muster a majority in the council to ensure that we act quickly. the new commission must immediately take steps to make concrete proposals to achieve this. schoolchildren in finland are going on a climate strike next friday because they want us adults, the decision-makers, to act.
mr president, during the past year we in the tax3 committee have received a great deal of new information on the scale of the problem of economic crime, tax evasion and tax evasion. during our mandate, the danske bank estonian unit was also exposed in a €200 billion money laundering scandal, one of the biggest money laundering scandals in history. criminal activity continued in estonia for years, and it seems that the authorities were turning a blind eye. it seems that the origin of the dirty criminal money or the identification of the bank's customer has not interested the bank managers when the customer has enough money, and this is very worrying. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. this is further confirmed by the continuing revelations of tax scandals, the latest example being the 'troika money laundering' which revealed massive money laundering by russian businessmen, including through nordea bank. finally, i would like to thank all the colleagues and staff who have contributed to the work on tax3.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, according to the transparency international corruption index, slovakia is the sixth most corrupt country in the eu and malta the eighth. the work of whistleblowers and investigative journalists is of paramount importance in bringing problems to light. we are all shocked by the murders of journalists in malta and slovakia in recent years. it is imperative that these murders be thoroughly investigated and that the perpetrators and those who ordered them be brought to justice. i am concerned about the allegations that there are elements within the maltese government who may be responsible for the murder of a journalist and are therefore seeking to impede the progress of the investigation. both malta and slovakia participate in the trade in citizenship or residence permits. we have discussed these golden visa schemes at length in the tax3 committee. member states should put an end to such practices quickly, as they involve many risks, such as money laundering, corruption and security, and such criminal activity cannot be in line with our common values.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, the citizens of europe have asked for an end to the clock movement and we in the european parliament now have the duty to respond to this request. that clock shift is artificial and should be part of history. several studies have shown, as marita ulvskog says, that its benefits are minimal and that the health risks, for example, are more serious than thought. but now we need a european perspective on this issue. the member states must coordinate their time systems so that fragmented time zones do not arise within the eu, and therefore the functioning and safeguarding of the internal market is essential. the commission was more radical than us and would have stopped this year. this is of course impossible, but i am in favour of the fastest possible timetable for implementation. i hope that the member states will agree on this timetable as soon as possible.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, time management has become one of the major issues in the eu, particularly in my own country, and i understand this very well, because it is a simple, concrete, easily dealt with issue which affects every citizen, and for this reason we must take it seriously, and it is good that we have taken it seriously. we have listened to people and acted very quickly on a matter of importance to them. and even though we may not make resolutions for this year or even for the next, the fact that we have a date or time, a year, for making this decision has a tremendous significance to people. the health effects on humans and animals are undeniable: the effect of light on the human mind, mental health, balance, sharing. all the effects we can see in transport and industry are important, so we understand that we must give sufficient time to adapt safely. i believe that we are capable of finding a coordinated, intelligent solution to this problem, one which has really awakened the interest of the citizens in europe and european decision-making.
in writing. studies have shown that shifting clocks disrupts people's circadian rhythms and negatively affects their well-being. negative effects of the transfer also occur in animals. the abolition of the clock is a matter which will have a direct, concrete impact on the lives of citizens - unlike many of the major issues dealt with in parliament. understandably, this has led to much heated debate. in a survey carried out by the commission in the summer of 2018 among 4,6 million respondents, a clear majority, as many as 84%, supported the abolition of the movement of clocks. the message from the citizens is very clear. i am in favour of the end of the unnecessary clock change by 2021, leaving it to the member states to decide whether they want to stick to winter or summer time.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have a serious place to look in the mirror, also from the point of view of consumer protection and legal protection of citizens. when i have been around talking to people, they ask a very pertinent question about what they can do to combat climate change, to reduce emissions, to reduce particulate matter, and in particular the owners of diesel vehicles ask what their legal protection is, when they have bought these vehicles in good faith and then the truth has been different for these particularly periodic emissions. so it is not just a question of what our legislation looks like, what our actions look like, whether they are adequate, but also what is the confidence of consumers in the products that are produced and that we approve through legislation. i therefore felt that we had to think more broadly about the whole of combustion engine technology, the whole of the future of diesel vehicles, and how they can be replaced and how we can ensure that biodiesel made from waste and waste also reaches the market, when there seems to be difficulties in that too. so we have a lot of big questions that need answers, not just the fact that after the dieselgate, the work seems to be half-way done. we have a lot of things to correct, both in our legislation and in the confidence we have in our citizens.
mr president, this copyright directive is certainly not perfect, as our legislation rarely is, but it is nevertheless the result of five years of negotiation and compromise, and i would like to warmly thank axel voss and the whole negotiating team for the hard work you have put in in the face of many cross-pressures. the rights of authors must also be protected in the digital age. it is clear that the work of others must not be exploited commercially without permission. it is a fair and necessary principle even in the digital world. it is essential to note that the copyright directive does not infringe and threaten freedom of expression or imply filtering or blocking, but specifically concerns those online platforms whose main business is the commercial exploitation, distribution and promotion of copyrighted content. this implies that in future this will require a licence or permit. it's a right and a fair principle in the digital world.
in writing. after a long process, we are adopting new digital copyright rules. these will improve the enforcement of copyright on the internet, especially on platforms such as youtube. it is important to remember that the legislation only concerns large operators whose main activity is the distribution of various types of material. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to the beneficiary in accordance with the conditions laid down in article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. the big platforms should pay authors in the same way as they already do for libraries or radio. at the same time, the individual is no longer legally responsible for the content he shares. and of course, you'll be able to share wedding videos, memes, collages, and the like, as you have done so far. copyright guarantees the income of the creative worker and the opportunity to produce more music, literature and films for our pleasure. without proper compensation, we do not have art in all its various splendid forms and therefore the importance of copyright should not be underestimated.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. – mr president, i want to thank colleagues voss, gebhardt and arimont for the work they have done with these two directives. as you may remember, the committee on legal affairs failed to choose between maximum and minimum harmonisation, and that’s why we voted ourselves out of the game quite early. but anyway, this is a harmonisation exercise, because the eu needs to harmonise its consumer protection legislation. at the same time, the eu has introduced now a completely new layer of consumer protection for digital content. it has been a success in many ways. these two directives create a standard set of consumer and contract law rules that boost consumer confidence throughout the eu, when the digital business-to-consumer market is growing. these directives also restrict further fragmentation of the consumer legislation in the member states. finally, these two directives also clarify intermediary liability and enable sellers to pursue remedies against previous persons in the chain of transaction. so this is, again, one step towards more responsible supply chains.
i am very pleased, mr president, that a package of directives and regulations aimed at reforming the european electricity market has been adopted today by a large majority. it's the last piece of the so-called clean energy package. during this period, important steps have been taken to develop the european union's electricity union. why is this important? because improving the functioning of the electricity market is a prerequisite for improving energy security and for increasing the share of renewable energy in our energy systems. the nordic and baltic electricity markets are already functioning and the roll-out of this model to the rest of europe is an important step. europe's climate and energy actions are proof that we can work together. but in the coming parliamentary term we must do even more and raise the level of ambition. a functioning electricity market will allow for more stringent emission reduction targets.
mr president, many ngos and it experts have strongly criticised the new copyright directive. i am concerned about the reliability of the automatic content filters required by the directive in practice, as the algorithms are not very good at detecting, for example, parody. this would lead to automatic censorship and restrict citizens' freedom of expression on the internet. the opportunities for smes to grow and compete with large international companies are also becoming more difficult. the directive also changes the logic of linking to news, which can lead to an increase in the number of fake news and reduce the visibility of small publications. i fully understand the desire of the proponents of the directive to ensure that copyright is protected on the internet so that creative people and news publications are fairly compensated for their work. however, the risks involved in the reform are too great and that is why i voted against the motion and its problematic articles.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank the court of auditors, the commission, the agencies network and parliament’s staff, including the secretariat and our offices, for their valuable work during the 2017 discharge procedure. the decentralised agencies are highly visible in member states and they have a direct impact on the daily lives of the union’s citizens. we therefore welcome the overall positive results of the european court of auditors’ audit on union agencies for this financial year. the court issued an unqualified audit opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the legality and regularity of the revenue and the payments underlying the accounts for all the agencies in 2017, except for the payments of the european asylum support office (easo). we regret that the court issued an adverse opinion for easo’s payments. the matters which led the court to issue this adverse opinion were mainly related to non-compliance of payments on public procurement and recruitment procedures. however, we acknowledged easo’s new management’s commitment to ambitious reforms. we called on the new management to continue its determined and transparent efforts to develop a more accountable, trustworthy and efficient governance structure and related procedures. therefore, we proposed to grant discharge to all agencies, except for the european asylum support office, for which we propose to postpone the discharge. i would like to point out the following eight horizontal remarks. one, we strongly call on the agencies to further implement performance-based budgeting to develop and make use of more suitable indicators to evaluate actual impacts and outcomes, and to consistently seek the most effective ways to provide added value. two, we call on the commission, the network and the individual agencies to work together and provide constructive feedback throughout the negotiations for the post—2020 mff, and to explore new sources of financing for the agencies. three, we invite the court and the commission to propose and define a consistent formula for the calculation of cancelled carryovers and clear guidelines on agencies’ budget reporting. four, we also call on the commission in the coming years automatically to provide the discharge authority with the official budget and staff figures regarding only the 32 decentralised agencies. five, we are concerned about the number of factors hindering the operational performance of certain agencies and about the shortcomings in the management of procurements. six, furthermore, we regret that the new audit approach involving private sector auditors has resulted in a significant increase in the administrative burden on the agencies. seven, the agencies should continue their valuable work regarding prevention and management of conflicts of interest, whistleblower protection, harassment policy and transparency in order to avoid shortcomings in these areas. finally, we repeat our request of deciding on granting the discharge in the year immediately following the year for which the discharge is granted. i look forward to the discussion, especially now that we have been given this daylight slot for budgetary control affairs. i once complained that we were only ever allotted a slot at the midnight sitting.
rapporteur. – mr president, very briefly, because colleagues are filling the hemicycle and i want to be popular, as everybody wants to be. i just want to wrap up by saying that discharge is very serious business. it’s not about the brexiteers and other anti-european forces screaming about us wasting the taxpayers’ money. it is exactly the opposite. tässä on kyse nimenomaan siitä, että me olemme täällä vartioimassa ja vahtimassa sitä, miten näitä meidän yhteisiä rahojamme käytetään ja niitä käytetään – voin vakuuttaa teille – kohtuullisen järkevästi.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to start with saying some nice words about miriam dalli because, as you probably know, we had fairly tough conversations with the council and if miriam hadn’t been as tough as she is, we probably would have had very different results. so, thank you once more. some facts about the background. we did some counting. in finland, an electrical car would produce emissions by kilometres of 48 g/km. why? because the mix in the grid makes the difference. in germany, an electrical car would actually produce emissions of about 131 g/km and that was actually the reason why we had a hard fight. in the middle of the night, we waited for a call from berlin. so, the real problem is actually what kind of mix we have in the grid and if we don’t make a really great effort to change the mix in the grid in the future, we will fail. that’s a fact. i can tell you, my 7—year—old diesel, with renewable second-generation advanced biofuel, produces less co2 emissions per kilometre than an electrical car in germany. so, my dear german friends, i think you have to take your efforts and your technological knowledge and do something real to change the grid. if you don’t change the grid then you are going to be a loser – and a european loser. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - mr president, i have to say that i am very pleased. i'll be happy to answer. we've all read the german coal commission report, and we know that the exit happens in 2036, if i read that correctly. to create something, we want to have a little bit more speed. thank you very much, and we're going to continue this with great energy to change everything.
for the alde group mr president, the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument is an ambitious reform of the european union's external financing. we're voting on it at a critical time. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments under the paris agreement and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments under the paris agreement. the parliament's proposal is more ambitious than the commission's. we want to allocate 45% of the funding to climate and environmental action. we have also brought gender equality more strongly into the picture and supported investments in social and human development, such as education and health. the european development fund is now also included in the budget of the european union, which strengthens the democratic control of development aid. i hope the council will accept this. by streamlining its external financing, the eu is strengthening its role as a global player. this requires efforts in all policy areas, both in the regions far away and in those close to us, for example through the northern dimension and arctic cooperation. sustainable development, human rights, democracy, human development and equality, and poverty eradication will continue to serve as a good guideline for external relations. but it is not enough to have objectives, we must also ensure effectiveness.
i would like to draw attention to this. you've been asked questions here. i do not know whether commissioner hahn would like to participate in the debate at this stage, but here we have been asked about cooperation with parliament in the use of the instrument, here we have been asked about how the conditionality is implemented in terms of human rights, whether the instrument is linked to immigration... this is a great opportunity to answer questions from the delegates. now i'd like to give you the floor.
this conversation is over. the vote will be held tomorrow, 27 march 2019.
the next item is the report by mr josé ignacio salafranca sánchez-neyra and mr knut fleckenstein, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing an instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa iii) (com ((2018) 0465 - c8-0274/2018 - 2018/0247 ((cod)) (a8-0174/2019).
i will then give the floor to commissioner hahn. i hope you noticed that at least representative gill asked you questions.
this conversation is over. the vote will be held tomorrow, 27 march 2019. written declarations (article 162) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in algeria (2019/2627) (rsp)).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i’m thankful that the commission and the high representative have expressed such a clear condemnation of the illegal occupation of crimea. it’s very important that, five years after this illegal annexation, we speak about the situation openly, because many people have had their rights suppressed and many people feel abandoned and left alone. so we have to recognise the systematic repression and persecution of political, civil and human rights which have taken place since the illegal occupation and annexation. we have a special duty to remember oleg sentsov, because he is our sakharov laureate. we have to join the commission and the high representative in the demand for the unconditional release of the political prisoners. we have to condemn also the extremism laws which have taken place since the annexation, which have brought very serious restrictions to freedom of expression in crimea.
mr president, this is a technical point of order. rule 175 of the rules of procedure literally refers to a text submitted to the committee. what is the concrete legal situation, since these two texts on dispatch, i.e. on post, and on driving and rest periods are not from the committee, but are made as separate proposals? how does this relate to the rule in question, which is now in use?
mr president, brexit is a great tragedy and it shows what populism can lead to in its extreme form. the political deadlock in the united kingdom is now beginning to make it difficult for the whole of the european union to function, and we believe it is extremely important that parliament should now be able to find a solution and a way out of the situation together with the government, because uncertainty is the most difficult of all. in a way, brexit has also made the european union more concrete. too often, perhaps, people today assume that we have the freedom to live, travel, work and move freely within the european union and that companies have the freedom to export and import their services and products. but this is all based on our common laws and agreements, and when a member state leaves, everything falls apart. in many ways it has now become tangible for all citizens of the european union. it is important that we, on the part of the european union, prepare ourselves for all the options, but we also have to support the process of reaching a lasting solution in britain now. it seems that a new referendum would be the most realistic way of all to move forward on this issue.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the saga of its kind has reached this point and it would require the backbone of us to be able to stand behind the ideas that were needed a few years ago in the field of fair play and a fair and socially well-regulated position for drivers in the labour market. we have been able to do this under very challenging circumstances. compromise has been made. some people think that the compromise is too much, that it is too strongly regulated, and others that it is too little regulated, that even tougher rules are needed. it's rare that a compromise is such that everyone comes out a winner. unfortunately, we are not children in a candy store, but legislators who must be able to put social regulation in the transport sector into practice and ensure a transport market based on sound rules, in which companies, european operators, who do their job honestly, also do well. it has been interesting to follow the debate on the claim that we do not have a compromise on which to vote. we do, but it seems obviously too difficult for many people to accept that the rules of the game in european transport are such that drivers are no longer exploited and that we do not have these letterbox companies running a business that does not comply with the european business code. we started with the big picture of us ending up nomadic. drivers have the right to return home to their families or to any place they choose at regular intervals. the compromise they have drawn up is that there will be a genuine end to nomadism and that drivers will be allowed to return to their place of residence or to a place agreed with the company or employer. there was this idea that equal pay for equal work. we have largely reached the common conclusion that in the transport sector equal pay for equal work is the norm. that doesn't seem to be enough either. some people want to use a model for the directives that have been sent, where everything is from day one. it is true that there are social aspects to it, which are certainly justifiable, but it also takes away the flexibility of operating according to the rules of the game so that vehicles are not empty or half-empty when they are transported back and forth on european roads. the letterbox companies clear rules for their abolition and the downstream of illegal cabotage and then that crosstrade operations would not be forced to use illegal cabotage as a new form. for the first time, enforcement would be brought into line with the rules of the game as a common whole, along with electronic driving charts, and these charts would make it possible to monitor the whole road later on. there is a compromise. there is a lot of work being done here to prevent a compromise vote. i hope we have the backbone to make decisions and ensure that drivers have genuine social fair play in europe and that companies can compete honestly under genuinely functioning rules.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the marathon has indeed come to an end and i hope that the bureau will have the courage to put this to a vote next week and not to continue to tinker with the various rules of procedure. i would just like to say that, while my colleagues here have mentioned that it has been difficult to get acquainted with the amendments that have been tabled, these same amendments have been circulating in this house for over a year and a half, so that they have already been examined here, if you wish, and the compromise, that is, nothing in substance, has changed much. when some groups comment that they have not been able to participate enough, i would say to the enf team, for example, that if they do not attend the first shadow meeting in the first half of the year, then at least the undersigned feels that the interest has not been very high. and at this point, when the team here is clearly having its own discussions, i thought i would put a little token of support in the bureau so that we would remember all the euros we have borrowed from the drivers and could return them to them. yes, i'll pay back the nickel i borrowed from the driver. you've probably been without it for a long time and missed your euro. we must always pay the taxes we owe to the world, the taxes we owe to our drivers. (applause) i would like to thank the
in writing. the free movement of people, goods, services and capital is one of the eu's most important founding principles. international transport plays a key role in this. the european road transport sector directly employs five million europeans. traffic volumes are only projected to increase in the future. the social and market part of the mobility package at hand is a necessary clarification of the rules for the mobility sector and its workers. it is important to strike a balance between the right working conditions for drivers and the freedom for transport operators to provide services across borders. however, the administrative burden on transport undertakings should not be increased. much can be achieved by cooperation between authorities, increased supervision and the introduction of new technology. the transport sector needs to move gradually towards a fully integrated market, but the sector needs to be clarified and the divergent national interpretations of the rules must be eliminated. we need clear, uniform rules of the game. i hope that we can reach an agreement on the package before the end of this term.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in the next 10 years, we're going to have big challenges ahead of us, the plastic challenges. i am convinced that some of the discussion in relation to these challenges will be based on what we could call the 'sergio leone logic' the good, the bad and the ugly, the good, the bad and the ugly. there's a lot of good plastic. the person who suffers from cataracts -- and it will happen to most of us -- can replace the cloudy lens with a plastic lens, and see clearly into the future. it may be particularly needed in the commission, but it may not be entirely wasted here in parliament either. there is, of course, a lot of bad plastic, plastico brutto, as sergio leone would say. to meet the challenges, we're going to need an investigation into all the plastics we have around us. technically, there are 18 different plastics in the world, and if we can sort of classify them, we might be able to meet these challenges as well. the commission's task in the coming parliamentary term is of course to carry out this inquiry. we also have what you might call fake plastic, plastico cattivo. during the discussion of this matter, i had a visit from the norwegian minister for the environment. he was formerly responsible for sports facilities in oslo, and he discovered that he had created a terrible amount of microplastics and nanoplastics by building plastic football fields. so he came to what you might call "the land of the remorseful". this is an example of evil. but we also have good examples of good plastic. this whole discussion has led to the fact that in finland, coffee cups are made of paper, not plastic, and we also have water-soluble plastic, so maybe we can meet this challenge by investing a little more in education and research.
mr president, this is a very good first proper step in banning these single—use plastics, but do not get overly excited that we can solve the problem. i do hope that the commission can ensure the next steps concerning the circular economy and that the plastics would then follow when the new commission is in charge. what i mean is that plastics – and the microplastics and nanoplastics which are actually the most severe problem – do come from other sources also. they are used in detergents, cosmetics, packaging and fertilisers, and so we eat them because they get into a very tiny format. there are also many other forms, and we have to remember that a significant part comes from textiles and tyres as well. i do hope that the commission will take charge and make separate programmes on textiles and tyres, and start by banning the plastic in food packaging, because there is the endocrine disrupter problem there also, and that we can have used—carbon—based safe packaging. there’s a lot to be done in the future also.
for the alde group mr president, i would also like to express my support for this fertiliser regulation. it will give farmers a wider and much better range of products in a more sustainable way. in this way we ensure better protection for people and animals and are one step closer to a cleaner environment, cleaner water and cleaner food. but it's also a circular economy. the new fertiliser regulation will allow for more efficient recycling of nutrients, which is an important step forward for the protection of the baltic sea, among other things. of course, there are still some things that need to be improved. the limit values for cadmium hazardous to human health could be stricter than at present. some countries, such as finland, have opted for stricter rules on cadmium use, because the protection of the soil and thus of human health cannot be ignored, and i would of course hope that all member states would follow the same course.
for the alde group mr president, parliament should set an example in the use of money. if we demand transparency and savings from others, parliament should be able to do the same. unfortunately, this level of parliament's budget is still too high, even though some savings were made in committee. so my own group is above all about openness, transparency and a reasonable use of money. one important factor in promoting openness and transparency would be that parliament's building policy would not be financed by surplus expenditure on other items. at times it has seemed that money is deliberately over-budgeted for different budget lines and then transferred to buildings at the end of the year. if we want money for buildings, i think we should do so openly, within the normal budgetary process. the second thing is the increase in personnel costs. it is almost 6% on this budget line, on one budget line. i was told that the increase was due to statutory expenditure, such as index increases and promotions. it is a lot, this 6%, if that is the reason, but apparently it also includes a few dozen new posts, which parliament does not, in fact, decide openly. finally, i would like to thank my colleague, the rapporteur, mr manka. it has been a great pleasure to work with him and with the other speakers. i would also like to say that this is probably my last speech. this is done by representatives who are no longer running for office. but i would like to say that savings and transparency - otherwise the european parliament will not be able to cope with the challenges ahead.
mr president, this is a good step forward in securing clean and good quality drinking water for all people, which is a human right and a fundamental right. it also takes account of water wastage and calls on member states to take better action. it also improves the metrics by which drinking water quality will be assessed in the future. however, there are still quite a few challenges ahead. first, some estimates suggest that up to 40% of drinking water is lost to distribution systems, a situation that is unsustainable from an environmental, economic and user perspective. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the water quality of the water supply system is not affected by the pollution of the environment. secondly, the new challenges to drinking water quality that we have already mentioned here should have been better addressed. now we're talking about hormone imbalances, the interactions of many different chemicals, and the much-talked-about microplastics and nanoplastics. we know that the pressures on the water resources from which drinking water is produced will continue to increase, and at the same time the risks of pollution will increase. it is now the last moment to take the lead and to take joint european decisions that guarantee clean drinking water sources, efficient water use, distribution and use, and it is our european responsibility to take care of new and existing risks, for example in the water supply system. this must be a matter for decision and evaluation at eu level, not just by the member states.
rapporteur. – mr president, we have eur 30 trillion in coal—risky and environmentally—risky stranded assets. eur 30 trillion! that is millions of millions. that means that our pensions are threatened in the longer run if change is not made. it means that our economy is at risk and threat of a crises when change is going to come. and it means that our environment is under threat because we are investing in the wrong end of the economy. but then again, the good news is that eur 30 trillion is a lot of money and as we have a clear indication what kind of investments are environmentally—friendly, sustainable and not causing significant harm in other fields, then we have plenty of money to turn the wheel and support environmentally—sustainable economies and investments. we need only eur 180 billion every year to invest in combating climate change. so, we do have the money, but it is in the wrong place. the question is about transferring that money from economically and environmentally risky investments to more sustainable investments. there, we need a harmonised indicator so we really can compare industries to industries within a sector and between sectors. we need to define – and this is what this legislation is all about – the environmental requirements and, in the future, as a backstop, the social requirements that we consider to be sustainable. what that means is that in the case of palm oil, for example, you can’t focus on one issue like climate change and say this is a good investment if it causes significant harm in other fields of the environment like biodiversity in indonesia and orang-utans. we know this to be the case with palm oil. and you couldn’t build a solar panel unit in a nature conservation area and claim it is green. and no, i don’t think that you could produce solar panels or any other green niceties with child labour. so the reference to significant environmental harm or other harm and the backstop makes consistent sense of how we understand and define sustainability. the financial sector is already much more advanced than setting green indicators and reporting mechanisms. for the majority of politicians in member states – and let’s see what the figures are here, in the european parliament – the issue is that now when we do not have a harmonised taxonomy they lose comparability, and the information they have does not have as big an impact as it should. but we, as politicians, shouldn’t perform worse than the markets are doing already. that brings us to some of the specific issues here in the file. first, coal. frankly, with climate change, could you really call a coal investment a green investment? put that question to yourselves. second question, could you really call investments that follow only basic national legislation a green investment? my interpretation is that if you do not break the law you are not a criminal, but it does not mean that your activity would be green. so yes, there need to be some better standards that normal activity to be labelled green and sold as green investments. it is important that we get it right this time, because investors do need transparency, predictability and long-term guidance from this regulation.
rapporteur. – mr president, the financial sector and investors are all on board already. they are willing to move, and they are willing to change the investment structure transparently so that it is more sustainable. let us give them the right tools. you all know that the time span of the investment from the decision to invest on something, up to the building construction and up to the use, is tens of years. the worst thing we can do is give the wrong signal to investors – for example, ‘please let’s invest in coal and old—fashioned technologies, and label it as green’. we cannot go back to them after five to ten years, like it is with the 2030 targets on climate reduction, and say ‘look, we got it wrong, now we are changing the rules of the game once again’, and after five or ten years go back and say ‘look, actually, palm oil was a huge mistake, you shouldn’t invest in it’ – because the money and investment is already there. this means that we have to bear our responsibility. we have to set that kind of a taxonomy that takes other aspects other than just climate on board, that gives the right incentives and guidance for investors and that is reliable from the investment perspective for the upcoming 30 years. we owe this to investors, to our pensioners, and to future generations.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the good commissioner bulc! my dear gabriel, i have to go. over the years, we have had a number of run-ins with gabriel mato. sometimes we've agreed. sometimes we disagree, and a special friendship has developed between us. the problems we face are perhaps best described by the fact that four of the first six speakers were from spain. it is not a totally wrong signal in this context because we know that this overfishing is part of reality. when we implemented the common fisheries policy in the previous mandate, we actually created the conditions for achieving sustainable fisheries. but at the same time we also realise that the structures, the economic and social structures, around fisheries were not really designed to maintain sustainable fisheries and we are faced with this issue today in the same way as many times before. we must therefore be able to change the structures and ensure that the social structures also cope with these changes. that is why we have some problems on this point. in his speech, mr gabriel stressed that we are currently importing a lot of fish too which we should be able to manage on our own, and this is largely due to overfishing in our own waters. tomorrow we will also be voting on the mediterranean plan, which is in fact going against all the principles we tried to establish in the common fisheries policy. so we have quite a lot of work ahead of us. the age structures in fisheries are not very favourable. the structure of the catch is not very favourable. but we have to be better at changing structures, including social structures. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
blue-card answer. – we seem to be of a different opinion on what are excellent amendments. the amendment is actually throwing out money. there is an understanding of some remote islands, as if ireland were a remote island, and in some comments from ireland on behalf of the irish fishers, they are asking why i didn’t propose that the money should also go to the finnish åland islands. my opinion was not to give money to islands that are very well sustainable without that help and that money.
in writing. currently, there are about 250 different types of identity card or residence permit in use in the eu member states. the level of security of these varies considerably, increasing the risk of forgery and document fraud. the wide variety of documents can also make it difficult for citizens to move within the union if border authorities prevent entry due to uncertainties in the documents. the regulation under discussion aims to harmonise the appearance of identity cards and residence documents and to improve their security features. the cards will now have to be identified by biometric means, such as passports, i.e. by fingerprints in addition to a photograph. the regulation makes it more difficult to forge documents and steal identities. it also makes it more difficult for terrorists and other criminals to operate, which makes it easier for me to support the regulation.
for the alde group mr president, china's influence and economic power have indeed increased in a wide-ranging way, and the commission is right in saying that china can no longer be considered an underdeveloped country and must be treated as an equal player. in any event, china must be required to comply with the rules, the cornerstones of which are the un and the wto. the eu must also require reciprocity from china. the conditions for european companies to operate in china are not the same as for their companies in the eu. we must take greater care to ensure that, for example, imports of toys and technology comply with eu safety standards. the eu should not use the same tools as china in terms of industrial competitiveness. for example, by circumventing competition and state aid rules, we would gain nothing. you really have to find other ways to grow your business. instead, we must make europe as attractive and competitive as possible so that the best companies can invest and stay. we need an internal market with the same rules for everyone, investment in research and innovation, a strong trade policy and eu unity. we'll be able to handle china with these. it is clear that the eu and china are competitors and that competition is increasingly also in third countries. we must also do more to cooperate with africa, where china is already strongly present. at the same time, we must pursue cooperation, which has enormous potential, including in the fight against climate change, where both china and the eu are global leaders, when the paris agreement is implemented. the eu and china must also consider cooperation in emissions trading, where both countries are indeed pioneers.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, the socialist group is more critical of this proposal than the previous speakers. i am quite enthusiastic about this myself, because we want to change the world, and one of the things we have wanted is to make the internal market work and to increase the mobility of people within the european union. this pension product, the european pension product, is as if promoting it. i must say in this context that the main criticism and fear that people have at the moment about europe and their own future is that, having spent part of their working life in different parts of europe, in different countries, the different pension systems are not adapting to this new situation. unfortunately, however, this pepp has raised doubts that this has something to do with the fears associated with this general deterioration of social security, but this is not the case. this is a good idea and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has made a great deal of improvements in this area of consumer protection. it is important now to insist that these european ideas of consumer protection and capital protection are realized here, because the attraction of this product is precisely linked to the fact that it is european, european as well as branded, and if this is disappointing, then other things will be disappointing too.
madam president, well where on earth is vice-president timmermans? i don’t – do i see him? no. where is the romanian presidency? i don’t see them either. the european union was founded in order to prosper peace, democratic principles and the rule of law. as my epp colleagues, i am extremely concerned about the state of the rule of law and the recent developments in romania. we cannot accept the romanian government’s continuous attempts to make changes to the romanian penal code through emergency ordinance, which aim at decriminalising corruption progressively. we cannot accept the continuous attempts to interfere with the independence of the judiciary. the special section for investigations, which puts pressure on the judges and prosecutors, has to be stopped. all in all, defending the rule of law and urging the romanian government to stop acting against the core values of the european union should be considered as top priorities for all of us. and by the way, i would advise madam in 't veld to take a closer look at the decision the epp made in brussels on 20 march. i don’t think your comments do full justice to that decision.
madam president, there is a desperate lack of both venture capital and own investment from collective investment funds in europe. as my colleague neena gill already said, at the moment, compared with the usa or compared with asian countries, our situation is close to meaningless because member states are setting different kinds of rules because of the cost structure and because marketing regulations are very opaque. the investors have not dared to really take up the capital markets union. so i really do welcome this piece of legislation that actually, hopefully, opens things up by setting clearer rules for pre-marketing and marketing regulation, and thus also improves consumer protection. the next steps that should be taken are creating fully fledged european supervision, and then a greater transparency on cost structures.
madam president, my deepest sorrow for the destruction of the cultural heritage, not only for parisians and france, but for all of us europeans. this is the completion of the big package after what we did after the financial crisis to stabilise banking risks and resolving mechanisms and the adequate capital requirements. i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteurs for doing a great job on this. but i would like to remind the commission and the upcoming parliament of two challenges that we still have ahead of us. one is the so-called liikanen package, and that refers to the firewalls between the retail banking and investment banking, and the other part is that the banks and lending should be part of the sustainable finance, because there we have a broiling financial crisis and risks that are embedded in sunk investments in fossil fuels, for example.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, throughout the 11 years i have been a member of the european parliament, we have had numerous discussions about european common supervision of financial markets and also about the capital markets union. if we want to create a prosperous europe, we need to create a common capital market, and if we are about to create a common capital market and to lessen our financial risks, what we need is indeed a proper european financial supervision of different institutions. while i’m congratulating both of the rapporteurs for pushing the member states further and about the significant steps that we have taken in this direction, unfortunately, i have to take up the issue that we are not yet in that place, and it is really hard and heart-breaking for me to see the resistance from the member states on creating a proper european financial supervision. that should be the singular unit acting at member state level and acting at the european level. i do not see the interest of different member state cultures or different attitudes towards supervision, because here, if anywhere, the short-sighted national interest is not only a burial for europe, but it is a burial for member states themselves and the prosperity of our nations.
mr president, the reporting of irregularities, such as misappropriation of funds and other property, tax evasion and other thefts and crimes, is a prerequisite for tackling the problems that exist. if those who detect abuses can rely on the proper handling of reports, they are also more likely to report them. in this way, criminal activities that may cause significant economic losses to society as a whole and to the public interest or to an individual company are investigated in a timely manner. i think it is important that whistleblowers can report abuse either within the organisation or directly to the authorities. in both cases, they are protected from possible retaliation, such as dismissal or relegation. i am very pleased that we have finally got the eu-wide minimum rules for whistleblower protection. in many countries there is as yet no legislation on the subject, and i hope that the directive will be implemented as soon as possible in all the member states.
this conversation is over. written declarations (article 162) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the decision of the united states to recognize the golan heights as part of israel and the possible annexation of the west bank settlements to israel (2019/2702 ((rsp))
there's no point in shouting across the hall. i am not going to go into the details of the procedure, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to propose a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to carcinogens.
mr president, in free and democratic elections, citizens will have the opportunity to express their will as to the direction of policy in the years ahead. the forthcoming european parliament elections are crucial, as the eu is at a crossroads with the immigration crisis and brexit. despite our differences, i am sure we can all agree that democracy must be protected. only the citizens must be allowed to decide the future direction of the eu. external actors, such as foreign states or even individual malicious actors, may seek to influence the outcome of elections, for example by disseminating disinformation using technical tools or by means of hacking or denial of service attacks, which must be detected and prevented in a timely manner. such actions may also be motivated by a desire to influence the image of the credibility of elections. we must strengthen citizens' confidence in the political system if we are to regain voter turnout, which has fallen to low levels in many countries.
the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on budgets. mr president, sometimes working in the committee on budgets is quite boring, to be honest. the structures are complex and not very transparent. sometimes, when we talk about the eu budget, we have to use words that commissioner moedas has already used. the citizens often believe that the eu budget is a black hole into which all the money disappears. that is why it was very encouraging to be the representative in the committee on budgets who was able to say that we need eur 120 billion to make this work, and suddenly there is a huge consensus. it was not very difficult to convince other colleagues that such money was really needed. i will gather my grandchildren, perhaps in ten or twenty years' time, and i will tell them what my grandfather used to do in the european parliament: he received 120 billion euros for important research.
the committee on transport and tourism has adopted an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank all the negotiators, including the committee on transport, for an excellent report. from the point of view of the committee on transport, there are three particularly important points. the first of these, of course, is that we must increase european research and development funding at the level of all member states. but the increase of 50% in the horizon programme to eur 120 billion is also a major priority for the committee on transport: in order to keep our industry competitive in the future and to be able to respond to the major global challenges, we must invest more in research and product development. secondly, the committee on transport very strongly supports the emphasis on climate objectives in the future research programme. from the transport point of view, decarbonisation and digitalisation are the key areas in which european research must invest. thirdly, we consider it a very good solution that a separate cluster has not been created for transport, but that we are trying to operate as inter-administratively as possible and to make use of the funds allocated to energy, climate and transport, as well as the funds allocated to digitalisation and industry. it is important that this good balance between basic research and innovation continues into the future.
the committee on agriculture has drawn up an opinion. mr president, if successful, horizon europe is crucial to the eu's competitiveness. we really need a bold programme to enable european science and innovation to compete well in international competition with, for example, the united states and china. as rapporteur for the committee on agriculture, i would like to emphasize the importance of agriculture, food and natural resources and the 10 billion euros of research funding allocated to them. more research is needed in marine and inland water, forestry and agriculture, not least to break free from the fossil society. the eu must take care of its own food security and that of the world, and shoulder its responsibility to end hunger, including worldwide. but the most important thing is still to be agreed, namely the budget. as the trilogue negotiations continue next autumn as part of the multiannual financial package, it is important to ensure that the 10 billion earmark proposed by the commission remains at least at this level.
mr president, innovation or trade secrets or research purchased by companies can never take precedence over public health. that is why this agreement on transparency of research into food products is so essential. the more complex our food systems become, and the more we know about the factors that affect food, such as hormone disorders, the mechanisms by which different chemicals are transported, or even nanoplastics, the more we need multidisciplinary research, its publication, and a general assessment of what we can consider to be safe and healthy food. that is what this legislation is aiming at, and that is what this glyphosate case actually did in a rather disgusting way, driving the european union - both the council, parliament and the commission - to keep secret for a while the information about the new assessments, which were in complete contradiction with the assessments of the world health organisation. now this is all right. the following steps relate to how to oblige efsa to use the precautionary principle more effectively when assessing food risks and commissioning studies.
mr president, i had the honour to get to know mr kariņš, now prime minister, as a good colleague in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) working for the energy, digital and common europe. i liked very much your statement on the beauty of the single market and really describe it, and i’m enthusiastic myself to work for that europe, where we are brave enough to take advantage of the fact that we present – together and only together – more than 20% of the gross national product of the world. more than 20%, so please tell me from where comes these populistic ideas to close the inner borders or close the trade between the other parts of the continent? i do not see a single good reason showing how that would help europeans. but the beauty of the single market is also that we can be brave when we talk about climate change, because together we can steer the markets, which no country can do alone. and that is also the beauty for normal families – families with children, where there is a need for a car – that in the car markets there are new, cheaper cars available, not only with the belt but with lower emissions, and with the market of more than 20% of the single market, we can do it. so i’m also looking forward to seeing europe talk to its citizens. in the election we can talk to citizens, and i think also that everyone has to know that we work also for workers, who have the possibility to move across the border, and we have worked this mandate to create more fair trade markets and labour markets, also for european citizens.
mr president, unlike many of my colleagues, i myself hope that this will not be my last speech in the european parliament. i would like to warmly thank prime minister kariņš for his energetic and positive speech on the future of europe. it was a pleasure working with you here all these years on the industrial affairs committee before you became prime minister. when we started this period, our main objective was to bring more jobs, businesses and investment to europe. we can say that we have succeeded in this. europe has more people working than ever before. the growth rate, as well as the level of investment, have been brought back to pre-crisis levels. but international competition has intensified, and digitalisation is changing the world. what do you think the member states and the european union need to focus on now in order to strengthen the economy and competitiveness in the years ahead?
in writing. to ensure free movement within europe, a durable external border is needed. the migration crisis of a few years ago showed that not all member states were able to secure their external borders under severe fire pressure. strengthening frontex, the eu border and maritime surveillance agency, by establishing a permanent force of 10 000 border and maritime surveillance officers by 2027 is an essential step towards a secure external border. while each member state remains responsible for its own external border, it is important that it can call upon the assistance of a rapid reaction reserve force, if necessary, to assist in the event of a problem. this is essential for a country like my native finland, which is responsible for more than 1,000 kilometres of the eu's external border. the reform should also enable the agency to support member states in the return of applicants with negative asylum decisions by identifying persons illegally present in the eu and assisting member states in obtaining travel documents. such assistance will certainly be needed in those member states which are under greater pressure to migrate. eu-wide coordination is needed.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism mr president, on behalf of the committee on transport, i would also like to thank the negotiators for the good outcome. this regulation is very much in line with the targets set by the committee on transport: car manufacturers must reduce emissions by 15% by 2025 and 30% by 2030. it is a very ambitious but nonetheless possible objective. it is significant that for the first time in the european union, maximum emission limits for co2 emissions from heavy duty vehicles are being set. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new system of national emission allowances for vehicles with a maximum emission limit of less than 100 kwh per year. in the future, it is necessary to further develop measurement methods. it would be important to take into account the total energy consumption of the fuel used and, in the future, to include life cycle approaches. we should also be able to take greater account of technological neutrality in the future, because it is certain that reducing transport emissions is such a challenge that all solutions are needed and we should not choose a single fuel.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to begin by thanking my colleagues in this whole business - the colleagues between whom i was pressed during this whole negotiation, on the one hand bas eikhout and on the other hand christoffer fjellner, who before he left complained that he had grey hair. but if you look at me and the commissioner, he can say that he managed to bring about much more gray hairs for us than we did for him. we have some challenges ahead of us. firstly, we have a rather fragmented manufacturing situation. so we have manufacturers who will have no great difficulty in meeting the targets we have set, and we have manufacturers who will have great difficulty in meeting those targets, which makes it much more difficult. we also have a difficulty with what we like to call zero-emission cars, because a zero-emission car with dirty electricity is not a zero-emission car. therefore, one of the major conditions for us to achieve what we promised greta thunberg yesterday will depend on how much we can invest in clean electricity in the future and thus move forward. so that's why we need bridges into the future. it has to be alternative fuels that have lower emissions than the electricity we currently use. the greatest challenge for the future is, of course, what mr eikhout said at the very beginning of his speech. we will review this legislation in the coming years. this means that the next parliament will have the interesting task of ensuring that this bill is put on the right track and that we actually achieve the ambitious objectives we have set ourselves. it is then up to the commission to keep its tongue, so to speak, in its mouth, and it is up to bas eikhout and myself and the others who are here with us to make sure that we get this shot in the arm. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the answer ('blue card'). thank you for an interesting question. i think that what we need most in cities may not be intelligent cars, but intelligent drivers. i don't know if rübig can do that. so we need to learn how to drive. we need all the technical means to keep this under control. if we are not afraid of the possibilities of technology, we have all the conditions to do this in austria too.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 18 april 2019.
the following is the report by mr zdzisław krasnodębski, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european defence fund (com ((2018) 0476 - c8-0268/2018 - 2018/0254 (cod)) (a8-0412/2018).
this conversation is over. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 18 april 2019.
the following joint debate is scheduled: report by bernd lucken, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 575/2013 as regards covered bonds (com ((2018) 0093 - c8-0112/2018 - 2018/0042 ((cod)) (a8-0384/2018) and report by bernd lucken, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the issue and supervision of covered bonds and amending directive 2009/65/ec and directive 2014/59/eu (com ((2018) 0094 - c8-0113/2018 - 2018/0043 (cod)) (a8-0390/2018).
in writing. hormone disrupting chemicals are everywhere in our daily lives. they're in frying pans, furniture, cosmetics. no matter how hard man tries, he alone cannot protect himself from the chemicals. that requires legislation. none of the hormone-disrupting chemicals are inherently dangerous. however, we know about the negative effects of endocrine disrupting chemicals - we have known about them for a long time. we know how these chemicals affect our hormonal activity. the results of the study show the effect of hormonal disorders on the deterioration of sperm quality. other known consequences include hormone-related cancers, early breast development and type 2 diabetes. the characteristic of hormonal adverse effects is that they affect the developing body in particular. fetuses, children and adolescents are most at risk of exposure. the effects of pollutants are irreversible and can last for generations. it is possible that the effects will not be felt in the first generation but only in the next. harmful substances can act at very low doses, which has made it more difficult to identify their risk factors in high exposure tests. parliament has long called for the commission to set comprehensive and proper criteria for endocrine disrupting chemicals and it is a shame that the criteria have still not been set.
mr president, ports are absolutely essential to the functioning of the eu economy, and therefore everything we can do to make ports work better is also important for the well-being of our economy as a whole. i would therefore like to thank both the commission and the rapporteurs for their excellent work. this shows in a simple and clear way what it means to do more together. we will save costs, improve efficiency and improve the capacity of ports. at the same time, it is a great example of what digitisation means. by using digitalisation for reporting, monitoring, etc., we can also avoid additional costs and improve the quality of our operations. however, after these compliments, i would like to make a few wishes, knowing full well that the eu ports are already very environmentally friendly in international comparison. i think that in the future, on the basis of the circular economy, we should have a clear harmonised waiting list for ports on how to reuse all usable material at the highest possible level. this means, for example, refining oil instead of burning it. and how can we, for example, better monitor, through electronic monitoring, whether the fleet is actually complying with environmental standards in terms of discharges, fishing requirements or, for example, the dumping and recycling of various waste and by-flows in the harbour?
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the financial markets are multi—fold compared to the real economy, so it really matters where those financial flows are directed. at this point we have about 30 trillion invested in unsustainable strained assets that are coal-dependent or otherwise climate- or environmentally-risky. but it is good news that we can guide that investment towards those challenges where we very well know what we have in investing for sustainability on combating climate change. we have more than enough money. the question and the crux of it is the information. that’s why i regard this regulation about these clauses as the mother of all sustainable finance regulations. it is the question how you disclose not only environmentally-friendly actions but the whole impact of your activities in the environment. so it is the negative, it is the positive, it’s everything in between, and it is not only climate but it is all the others, like biodiversity, for example, indirect land use, water consumption and so on, to avoid this kind of palm oil investment crisis. we have managed to turn the wheel in this direction now, and thank you for my colleagues and negotiation team for all this. and the next step is to broaden the scope, so that it touches the investing companies so that the investors do get the proper information, and that it touches all sizes and types of companies and all levels of the production chain, so we can talk about environmental accounting and that the information needs to be used on decisions on investments.
on behalf of the id team. mr president, in the face of a massive and illegal flow of migrants, the eu has been totally incapable of even fulfilling its basic mission of protecting its women and children. the child rape in oulu is just one shocking example. the finnish presidency of the eu does not respond to the concerns of europeans about uncontrolled immigration, but will make the situation worse by permanent harmful immigration this is what the finnish minister of the interior ohisalo is saying. the government of the front is not living in reality, but in the utopia of multiculturalism. it is naive to think that continuing to increase the amount of development aid would reduce migration from africa to europe. finland should focus on protecting the baltic sea and not support human trafficking in the mediterranean. the climate issue is important and this challenge must be met in a sensible way, defending finnish and european industry. finland should also demand that the eu set an example on climate change and propose that we stop this bickering between brussels and strasbourg. if the french do not agree to this, then we will stay here in strasbourg. the point is, there's only one place. in the european parliament, political isolation and demonization have excluded the anti-eu groups from their respective posts as vice-presidents and committee chairs and vice-chairs, using the dhondt method. in doing so, the eu parliament is unnecessarily complaining about the state of the rule of law in some eu member states. the european parliament should first of all be in the spirit of democracy itself before it goes to advise others. it is ridiculous to talk about democracy and freedom of expression at the same time when the european parliament is specifically destroying both of them from those who disagree. we're not here to represent ourselves, we're here to represent the people. no excuse can justify such actions, at least not to counter totalitarianism with totalitarianism. the eu should lead by example, not by dominating. will finland demand that the eu budget be reduced and that finland's net contribution be reduced? will finland demand that the eu defend freedom, freedom of expression, democracy and the human rights of europeans? would it be time for finland to promote its interests in the eu for the first time and to bring up finland instead of africa? i am surprised to see so few meps here. finland is of little interest in the eu. (applause) i would like to thank the
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i think the finnish presidency programme is a good one and as a finn i am glad that it has been received so positively here. i am very pleased that, in the midst of all the great challenges we are facing, finland has dared to put climate change and how to solve it at the centre. the finnish presidency comes at a particularly challenging time. we have enormous challenges ahead of us - the common refugee policy, brexit, the rise of the far right, the spiritual division of europe, the defence of the rule of law - at the same time as we are starting a new parliament and a new commission. but in the midst of all this, the climate must not be left behind. we talk about it a lot, but still we do too little. we mostly talk about years and we talk about percentages. we are talking far too little about the need to tackle climate change in a socially just way. we must be able to carry out an ecological reconstruction of our societies, a new climate-resilient society. and that change has to happen in a way that everyone can keep up with. citizens must see climate solutions as fair, to support them and to prevent them from becoming a cause that divides us further. this means that the differences between regions and the income levels of people must be taken into account. special support should be provided for regions where climate solutions imply major structural changes. and if and when aid and investment are properly directed, we can, while addressing climate change, create sustainable economic growth and new climate jobs. the circular economy, among other things, is a great example of this, and vice-president katainen of the commission put it well. finland has a lot to offer in this area, for example. a carbon-neutral eu by 2050 is also a possibility if we do it right. and in order to channel investment and aid properly, it is important that we make the decisions quickly that are necessary to channel the money properly. the reductions in emissions must be tightened up, the traceability of emissions trading must be improved and strengthened, and tax solutions must be made available that steer both consumption and production in a sustainable direction. a just transition fund must be set up. i hope that finland will give strong support to this during its presidency. the second thing is that we want to bring transparency and openness to the fore. yesterday we elected a new president of the commission, and it was again a decision taken behind closed doors as a cabinet decision. the european citizens were not given the opportunity to influence it through elections. i hope that finland, as the presidency, will increase the visibility of the council's work, bring out the background to the decisions, the discussions, open up the minutes and make all lobbying and influence as transparent as possible. these decisions taken behind closed doors are part of the reason why so many people feel that the eu is undemocratic and alien and distant, not their own. openness and transparency are essential if this common european project is to continue in a sustainable way.
mr president, mr prime minister i congratulate you on the excellent work you have been doing to prepare the programme of the finnish presidency. it’s clearly future oriented and, you could say, pro-european. perhaps it is also a somewhat progressive one. so i’m happy to see you here. i am especially delighted that you have put two very important issues so high on your agenda: the struggle against climate change and the need to respect the rule of law, also in our own member states. here you can count on and trust our support when you are implementing this programme. however, this programme is not so ambitious when it comes to taxation policy. today we know that the big multinationals/technology giants are not paying their fair share of the cost of the welfare societies. at the same time, they need all the services, higher education and all the infrastructure to make a profit here in europe. the french government has made some very bold decisions recently and yesterday we saw that the president of the commission shares the same opinion.
mr president, thank you prime minister for your rather bold speech on the rule of law and human rights. it’s very timely today, as i would also like to congratulate finland for the hundred-year anniversary of the form of government in finland – the finnish constitution, that gave the finnish people the right to freedom of expression and political rights. these rights need to be protected today everywhere in europe. so i wish you success with that and i hope that you raise the current ongoing processes on article 7 in the council during your presidency. but my main question and my main point is on climate change. the finnish government itself wants to take up the discussion on the 55% target to 2030 in emission reductions in europe and it should be taken up this autumn. it is not enough to discuss the 2050 carbon neutrality target if we want to achieve what we have promised in the paris agreement, that is that we are actually limiting global warming to 1.5°. even the european union is not doing enough as it is and we should be honest about it: even my home country of finland is not doing enough. so we need to raise the discussion on the 55% target that von der leyen yesterday also promised to do in the commission. this should be taken up this autumn in order for the european union to be strong in the un discussions when the secretary-general is organising a meeting on climate. i hope you raise this issue this autumn in the council too and ensure that it moves forward.
mr president, prime minister of finland, finland, as the country holding the presidency, has completely forgotten in its programme the need to control europe's external borders. the last moments to prevent europe from becoming africa and the middle east are at hand. the destruction of present-day europe will inevitably be brought about by hostile cultures. and this may not take more than a few decades. open your eyes! we have to close the borders to dangerous intruders. the task of europe and the national states is to look after their own and not to become the breadwinners of the herds of nomads. a sovereign state must have the right to carry out its own border checks whenever and for as long as necessary. (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, mr prime minister, almost two decades ago europe decided that, by the turn of the 20th century, the european union would be the most competitive economic area in the world. it was also decided that 3% of gdp should be invested in research and development. we know that we have failed badly in both of these areas in europe. what is finland going to do to make that goal a reality? do you think it is realistic that we will actually be the most competitive economic area in the world at some point? the new commission president made a good speech here yesterday, but he did not mention agriculture, which is an important sector for one part of the whole of european security. how does finland intend to promote food security, food production in europe and farmers' livelihoods, which are currently in a challenging situation in many ways?
mr president, the ngos that pick up illegal migrants from libyan territorial waters in the mediterranean are not engaged in humanitarian activities but are active partners of the smugglers. thanks to the consistent policy of the italian minister of the interior, matteo salvini, illegal immigration from libya to the eu has fallen to a fraction of what it used to be, and drowning deaths have decreased. you hear that? drowning deaths have decreased. but what is the german government and the european political left doing? you want to accelerate the flow of illegal immigration. we cannot solve africa's problems by bringing africa's problems to europe. stop this political, benevolent foolishness, it's sinking europe. (applause) i would like to thank the
on behalf of the id team. mr president, there was a small mistake, but mr torvalds has already left. it's good to keep going, and i'm gonna keep going. finland has invested in forestry for over 100 years, and as a result, our forests are growing more than ever before, for that very reason. among other things, forest roads have been built to manage forests and prevent fires. we're on the same latitude as russia, canada and sweden. sweden recently experienced large forest fires, but the finns managed to prevent them. because finland lives off the forest, it also knows how to manage its forests so that they grow. now that we are concerned about the forests of europe, come and see how they are dealing with it in finland. i have personal experience of it. at the age of 16, i've already started working in the forest and i've seen how forests are grown, managed and used and how biodiversity is preserved and everything is fine. so welcome to finland to see how things are done. and it is not that here, where these problems are, they give regulations to us who know how to do it.
thank you, i'll answer the question.
the answer to the blue card question. i'm just answering the question.
mr president, in order to do something sensible for the forests, we must recognize that there is not one forest in europe, but many different types of forests. finland is the most forested country in europe, with more than 70% of its land covered by forests. finland has always used forests, but it has done so in a wise, responsible way. in 100 years, the number of forests in finland has not decreased. they are indeed a source of refreshment, they have been a source of well-being, and today we realize that they are of enormous importance to carbon lives. the key is that we do sustainable forestry and that we can learn a lot from each other. it is important that when the commission is considering further action, those countries which have managed their forests well are not penalized when deciding, for example, on the future of coal mines.
mr president, in the last year, some 15 million hectares of forests have been burned in the world. that is more than the area of many european union member countries. these fires have produced more emissions than the combined emissions of industry and energy production in many countries. one reason for such a high rate of forest fires is that there are quite a few forests in the world that are not being managed. unmanaged forests are prone to wildfires. the finnish experience is telling. 60 to 70 years ago, the average forest burned in finland was about 100 000 hectares per year. in the last decade, when we have done good forestry work, we have averaged only about 1,000 hectares a year. my message is that the economic use and management of forests in a sustainable manner and with respect for biodiversity is an effective deterrent to forest fires and the right and safe way to deal with the climate issue.
mr president, the best competitive factor is to be at the forefront of this change. the future winners in both business and public administration are those who are able to adapt their production to the future, to the limits that climate change requires of us. the commissioner mentioned the emission reduction target in his speech. the scientific evidence tells us that the 2030 emission reduction target is not enough. the emission reduction shall be at least 55%. this is an example of how, although we have beautiful speeches, our level of ambition is not yet sufficient. we must base our goals on scientific knowledge. at present, progress towards sustainable development is being hampered by four phenomena: the increase in inequality, the increase in climate change, the increase in the waste problem and the continued loss of biodiversity. the rate of loss of biodiversity is accelerating at an alarming rate. we must remember that while biodiversity is a value in itself, it is also a question of resilience for this planet, how this planet will be able to adapt to the inevitable warming that is ahead of us. it is absolutely essential to establish a disconnect between economic growth and the well-being experienced and the use of natural resources. we must now respond to those young people who are standing in the streets demanding a future for themselves and action from us.
mr president, if we are really on the side of democracy, the eu should strengthen its freedom of expression. it is clear that, along with russia, the united states and china are also seeking to influence the european elections in their own way. a few years ago, obama was blackmailing the british with trade deals to make them vote the wrong way. the blackmail failed. it is a vote of underestimation to say that brexit, the election of trump and the victory of numerous nationalist parties are all the result of conspiracy theories, hatred, russia and sometrolls. the victory is because the people genuinely want to stop harmful immigration, stop islamization, they want to defend the sovereignty of the nation-states, their borders, their culture and their christian values. they want to put their own people first. whether the mainstream parties think that these are good or bad things, that is why we nationalist parties are voted. and the real reason and the need for this debate here today is that the liberals are losing the election and you refuse to accept that nationalist parties are voted for for the right things. that's why you in the eu want to go down the road of censorship. you want a politically correct truth commission that pre-censors. this is how you tell the people what they should think and what they should want. democracy is not in crisis, and democracy will not die if the liberals lose the election.
mr president, turkey is indeed a very important neighbour for us, politically, economically and also in terms of people-to-people contacts. i visited turkey a week ago and met people who were both optimistic, optimistic about the future, who saw the possibility of political change through democracy and elections, and on the other hand were concerned about what they saw as the central government's action against democratically elected local leaders, mayors. turkey has applied for eu membership. it is a member of the council of europe. it is committed to democratic principles in its administration and in the outcome of elections. so we cannot simply ignore what has happened in turkey. we cannot accept the removal of legally elected mayors. the turks are watching us. by adopting parliament's strong position, we are sending a clear message to the turkish government and the turkish people: we are also in favour of democracy in turkey.
mr president, all violent extremism is a security threat. now we're only judging the actions of the right. why this? can the eu not stand the truth? statistics show that violent far-left extremism and islamists are by far the biggest security threat in europe. once again, the jews have been persecuted in many lands and even exiled. violent islamists are their biggest persecutors, and this is because of uncontrolled immigration. of course, the jews deserve our full support. why is such a thoroughly one-sided subject even brought up? we are on a dangerous path if violent far-left extremism and islamists are sanctified beyond criticism and condemnation.
mr president, mr tuppurainen, equal treatment in some areas of life can be very problematic. for example, if a violent extremist islam or religion emerges or if one already exists, that entity or its representatives can exploit equality in many ways even in ways that their violent worldview and its implementation can be difficult to prevent. the basis for all consideration and discussion of equality and equality should always be common sense. no one would be able to implement such a directive in a fair way. it is also an infringement of the national competences of the member states. that's why the show won't work now or in the future. at the heart of racism is the inability to see people as individuals. instead, people are seen through group identities.
mr president, turkey's actions are clearly contrary to international law and cannot be tolerated. the european union has unfortunately remained a spectator, a bystander, as turkey, the united states, russia, syria and even iran have been orchestrating the affairs of the region and the affairs of the people of the region. syrian oil now has more protectors and rights than the refugees or the kurds - the kurds to whom we owe so much. the european parliament must send a very clear message from here. we expect the high representative, the council and the member state to take decisive action, to take more decisive action, to put an end to this tragedy and to make turkey understand the limits of its actions. it means sanctions, and it means a common european union policy to stop arms exports as well.
madam president, the eu is weak on crime and weak on borders. these nice open borders attract people – for the most part, young men from sub-saharan countries – who want to have a better life. europe cannot take in millions of africans. europe belongs to europeans. european politicians should not argue year after year about relocating people. if we were to spend as much energy on the well-being of europeans as we do on immigration, europe as a whole would do so much better. we should be discussing about how to seal the external borders of europe. our duty is to safeguard the prosperity and security of the european civilisation.
mr president, eu candidacy status should only be granted to countries which have a realistic prospect of joining the union. albania and north macedonia are both crime—ridden countries with problems of corruption and the rule of law. the eu has had enough trouble in absorbing romania and bulgaria into the union, who were not even ready to join the union back in 2007. we should not give false hope to countries who do not really fulfil the criteria of an eu membership candidate. the eu should stop spreading its borders ever wider when its own house is not in order.
mr president, once an immigrant has set foot on our continent, it is almost impossible to return him. the events in the greek islands prove this. at the same time, the lives of the local residents are seriously disrupted. but there is a solution to this, and there is no other solution. if the eu would finally close its borders. we have the resources and the equipment to protect our borders and stop the endless alien invasion. travellers must be informed that the doors to europe are closed. once this information spreads, the current of fire will stop on its own. europe must act before we are in a situation where it is impossible to act. or does anyone believe that the fire streams end with receiving? (the president agreed to answer the question on the blue card (rule 171 (8)))
the answer to the blue card question. in 2015, finland received a flood of refugees, more than thirty thousand people, most of them men. no women or children came. the problem is that europe is not for people who need emergency medical care, but for asylum seekers and adventurers. they operate by their own laws, not by ours.
mr president, we are facing a climate emergency of unprecedented scale. today, the world meteorological organization said that there is no sign of slowdown – let alone decline – in emissions. they also said that the gap between targets and reality is glaring and growing. it is not enough to speak of climate emergency today; now it’s time to speak about climate action. that applies to this parliament, and it applies to europe as well. we, in europe, are not doing nearly enough. our own targets are not enough, and we are still putting billions every year into subsidising the use of fossil fuels. just think of that: we are subsidising something that is the cause of our emergency. it’s like throwing oil into the flames. our own emission reduction targets have to be increased; we have to protect our own biodiversity; and we have to move towards 100% renewables within europe. that is the message we have to take to madrid: that we show that we live by our words. then we can demand more from the others as well. the commission has to do that in the next five years, and the member states also have to follow suit.
(introduction without a microphone) ... to reduce emissions in the european union by 23 per cent over eight years. in the next ten years, we must succeed in reducing them by 33 percent. it's a tough job, it's a bold one, but you have to commit to it. and it can be achieved without any hysteria stirring and building. i therefore also do not think that any climate emergency should be declared. it takes action and strong commitment. i think finland is a good example of how this approach can achieve a lot - not hysteria but strong, tough action. we've decided to phase out coal by 2030. we have decided that finland will be a carbon-neutral country as early as 2035. my wish is that we here decide on common commitments. each country takes responsibility for implementing them, and in this way - in a way that inspires confidence - we will achieve our goal.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, the december council meeting will indeed be of the utmost importance for the future development of the eu. it is also the first moment to move decisively forward with the commitments made in the last european parliament elections. i hope that by then the new commission leadership will have been able to start work and that this summit - the european council - will be a real new start for the work of the next five years. climate change is something that europe has already been at the forefront of. but it is equally clear that the big demand of the european elections was for all of us to be able to implement a real programme for a transition to a carbon-neutral europe. this is undoubtedly the main issue at the forthcoming european council. we must listen to the people and this change must be made in a fair way. it is therefore important that social justice is at the heart of the response to climate change when the council discusses the necessary action. there is no time to waste on the financial framework. we must prevent a situation in which decisions are taken so late that many programmes are not launched. so it is time to make the necessary compromises in the financial framework. but it is also important that we meet new challenges. the fight against climate change needs its funding. research, product development, the building of a new europe, all require their funding. the european border guard, which is an important part of our common security, also requires more resources. the same applies to the development of european joint defence cooperation. in all these cases, we expect the financial framework to provide the right solutions. i wish the new council and its meeting every success and hope that the presidency and the new president of the council will do their part to make this meeting historic.
the question of the blue card. mr krah, this is not hate speech against poland. this is about defending the human rights of sexual and gender minorities. you said that poland has the right to decide for itself what it does. do you really think that we can decide which parts of human rights we respect and which parts we do not? human rights are a matter that concerns us all. if the human rights of one of us are violated, then the human rights of all of us are violated, including yours.
mr president, in my home country of finland, we are celebrating independence day next week, and we are always asked: what does independence mean to you? i answer it the same way every year. it means freedom. the freedom to live freely as one's own without fear of discrimination, without fear of harassment, without fear of hate. that is what i would like every european to think of as being european. the freedom to be yourself without anyone else telling you how you have the right to express yourself and what you can do. mr kempa said here earlier that yes, homosexuals have a right to a life of dignity, as long as they don't cross a certain line. who is it that can set limits on how another may live his life? what is most irritating in this homophobic debate is that the arguments are justified by the malaise and increased suicide risk of homosexual youth. it's not that he's gay. it is because of the speeches and attitudes that we have heard in this chamber. my friends, homosexuality is not a choice, but homophobia is.
mr president, attempts to influence the european elections from outside must be resisted. we must ensure that europeans are highly educated, so that we can distinguish between true information and propaganda. it is absolutely intolerable that russia, china or any third country should seek to influence the conduct of elections in european democracy. this real phenomenon should not be misused to mislead people. russian troll factories on social media have not been able to get people to vote for nationalist parties. you consensus parties are getting people to vote for the alternative that the patriotic parties are offering. open-border immigration, islamization, climate hysteria, industrial job losses and the deterioration of welfare services are among the reasons why mainstream parties lose elections. in sweden, bombings and shootings are now a part of everyday life. this is what the politics of the mainstream parties have brought about. that is what we nationalist parties are going to fix. make europe safe again! someone here has been asking where we've been getting money. at least i have paid for my campaign myself, because i believe in a better and safer europe.
mr president, it is indeed very sad to see every day what is happening in the middle east at the moment. people are still dying in syria. there are serious human rights violations in iran and there are again significant problems with respect for human rights in iraq. the democratic rights of protesters are being curtailed and violence is being used against dissidents. we have seen all this since the us-led invasion of iraq, which contributed to great instability throughout the region and set in motion a cycle of violence that has not yet been broken. the european union must be clear in its views and support the strengthening of human rights and democracy. but this requires patience. there's no immediate winners.
mr president, this is an important debate. but it must be added to this, and it must be recalled here, that there are also many countries in the european union where forest protection, the preservation of biodiversity and the industrial use of forests go hand in hand in a sustainable way. finland is an example of such countries. we have forests protected by different standards of protection totalling 44,000 square kilometres. that's a little more than the entire area of denmark. at the same time, we are exploiting the forest in an industrial, sustainable way. the forest is being used to make bio-based, renewable, sustainable products. these two things can go hand in hand. i would like to say that there is still a lot to be done in europe and worldwide to protect forests and to promote their sustainable use - to make sure that these two things go hand in hand.
mr president, conservative friends can rest easy, the motion is not even close to revolutionary, unfortunately. after all, the recipe for fighting climate change is very simple: reduce emissions, raise carbon stocks and raise money to support green reconstruction. and all of this in a socially just way. this has a lot of good elements, but is it enough? in order to achieve the 2050 target of carbon neutrality, it is necessary to ensure that the 2030 target is achieved and is sufficiently ambitious. we have just declared a climate emergency and you are presenting a 2030 emissions reduction target that is below scientific knowledge. it's just not right! the reduction target should be at least 65% to keep us on the safe road. it is also insufficient because the programme does not contain sufficient means to strengthen the carbon sinks. the foundations of both agriculture and forestry must change fundamentally if carbon sinks are to be strengthened.
madam president, the climate emergency is here. the science is clear and the youth are on our streets demanding urgent action. this is the backdrop to today’s discussion. i applaud the commission. i’ve seen, as a former mp and minister of the environment, a number of commissions, and this is the first commission that sees climate action as a broad challenge that all the commissioners have to address. but however broad, it is still not yet decisive. it has to be decisive, and this is where the green deal still is a programme of promises but not on delivery. is the commission ready to increase the 2030 target to at least 55%, to be even close to the paris targets, or even higher? are you prepared to have a broad reform of the ets? are you prepared to increase the energy efficiency targets and renewables targets? because energy is at the core of the transformation that we are doing. 75% of our emissions come from energy, so we need to hasten the energy transformation. so we are willing to work with you, from the greens’ side, but we demand decisive action and we demand it now. good luck.
mr president, europe is doing its part, but we cannot save the whole planet, because the eu's emissions are 10% of the world's emissions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the current economic crisis. the eu should better understand the finnish forestry industry's heritage and not make it difficult to finance nuclear power plant projects because of ideological motives. nature is important to every human being, but we cannot protect nature if we destroy the conditions for the functioning of the welfare state and the national economy. species have been extinct for almost as long as life has been around. it is estimated that 95 percent of all species that have ever lived have gone extinct. climate has always changed, and species have died, regardless of human activity. the current wave of extinction is caused by human activity. for example, large areas of forest are being cleared to make way for farming and settlement. in the 19th century, there were less than two billion people. now we are just under eight billion, with an estimated annual population growth of about 82 million. no amount of emissions reductions will be enough if we can't stop population growth. the population explosion is the biggest challenge facing the climate - and we need to find solutions. the end result of eu climate policy must not be indebtedness, poverty and a loss of purchasing power. the eu's climate policy must not improve the competitiveness of the asian and us economies at the expense of european countries, as this will only increase global emissions. i would like to conclude by wishing the whole parliament a very merry brexmas.
madam president, i think that the failures of madrid give more light to the obvious prospect ahead of us that 2020 will be the crucial year for climate. that is the last year and the last cop when we actually still have a chance of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees, or even close to that. however, i also think that there are some positives to take from the failures. there is more legitimacy in either making a good deal or no deal at all. there was a bad deal on the table and i applaud the commission and the presidency that you didn’t take that, because it would make it totally, utterly useless to have these cops if we just give more room to those who just want to use climate for their business opportunities, get credits for free and not support climate legitimacy. so it’s good that we have brought the system to the brink of failure where all countries have to realise that we have to do more, that we have to deliver a good deal and that no facade is going to be enough. and this is the project for the european union for next year. we need to deliver on the green deal at home and build on the alliances that we have with those countries that want to do more before the glasgow meeting. then we can succeed.
mr president, madrid was a disappointment and expectations for glasgow are even higher. to reach the decisions needed, the eu must set an example and take a genuine lead. article 6 is extremely important and it is good that the eu did not accept watered-down conditions. accounting and reporting rules must be agreed in such a way as to avoid double counting and to safeguard both environmental objectives and social justice. we must now send a clear message to all our partners that a change of direction is necessary. we must use all means, including trade policy. in order to agree at the next meeting on the adequate tightening of the 2030 commitments of the states, we must start by raising our hard target. we must make it clear to our trading partners that we will not give unfair competitive advantages to those who are not responsible, but will create a carbon tariff at the eu's border if necessary, and that we will demand stricter environmental provisions from the trade agreement, starting with mercosur.
mr president, minister tuppurainen, the much-anticipated madrid climate summit ended in a complete failure. hotels in madrid, mexico, were in for a treat with 27,000 people traveling to the convention. the meeting was interrupted by a attention-seeking swedish schoolboy who was supposed to be in school and had to travel in the first class of a german train. actually, that's all there is to report from the meeting. in finland, the climate-mad government is using every opportunity to punish citizens with additional taxes, using the climate as an excuse. it also emerged that the eu intends to allocate 100 billion in climate finance to developing countries. they go to the potty. it seems that the meeting will be a day of consultants, not citizens.
mr president, commissioner, what is needed now is action, not mere talk. you have the opportunity to do better than the previous commission. the diversity of nature is a value in itself, but it is also a key element in the fight against climate change. the rich biodiversity strengthens the planet's ability to adapt to the inevitable warming ahead. we have to think about roots. they are found in agriculture, forestry and land use change, and they are the ones we have to address if we want to stop the radical loss of biodiversity and pollinators. agriculture cannot survive without pollinators, and at the same time, agriculture is the biggest threat to pollinators. the common agricultural policy must therefore be able to support farmers in the form of agricultural subsidies in the cultivation of techniques which promote biodiversity and preserve pollinators, which are vital for all of us.
mr president, this is also an initiative of the greens. they have a serious obsession with climate - by the way, the greens are the most damaging party group of the moment. there's nothing in their delusional world that doesn't have to do with climate. the eu has set over-reaching and unrealizable emissions targets, which at most tax us to death and distribute the money wherever it happens to go. the green deal is voluntary, but it's a short step from enforcement if the climate hysterics get their way. are the mercosur countries complying with the agreements reached? that culture may not include a thorough study of the articles. and no one can achieve these over-ambitious goals set by the eu. cato used to end his speeches with the same sentence: "by the way, i think carthage must be destroyed". and it was eventually destroyed. and it's likely that europe will do the same. we destroy ourselves. i personally believe that the power of the eu must be returned to the national states. it's where you know your circumstances best. britain will soon be unchained. i'm jealous, but i'm happy to embrace you.
mr president, as a finn, i have lived next door to russia all my life. thanks to this proximity, both friendship and cooperation between our civil societies have always crossed the border. now, because of this law, many of our friends are in a very difficult situation. many organizations are no longer able to function. it is particularly difficult for human rights organisations and organisations defending the rights of minorities, as they have the greatest difficulty in obtaining funding from inside russia. now that the law has been expanded, the situation has only gotten worse. the state of civil society is becoming ever more narrow. and when free social debate is not allowed, opposition is also silenced and then you approach dictatorship. investigative journalism and critical media have already been toned down. an incredible number of journalists have been murdered in russia, with anna politkovskaya as their sad symbol. i support this resolution and hope that we will continue to work towards the repeal of this law and support russian civil society.
