on behalf of the efdd group. mr. speaker, co-rapporteurs, commissioner, in march 2017, the us federal courts declassified more than 250 pages of internal documents at monsanto. their contents showed that the agrochemical company was already seriously concerned 20 years ago about the mutagenic risk of glyphosate, the most widely used plant protection molecule in the world. however, the day before the disclosures, the european chemicals agency published a report that considered glyphosate to be neither carcinogenic nor mutagenic. the 'monsanto papers' scandal had just broken out and was about to have worldwide repercussions. at the end of 2017, the european commission declared the european citizens' initiative entitled 'ban glyphosate and protect people and the environment from toxic pesticides' eligible. it was signed by over a million citizens. shortly afterwards, the european parliament set up a special committee on pesticides. as coordinator for my group, i attended all the hearings organised in the presence of the actors involved in the authorisation procedure. i was particularly surprised, i must say, by the ambiguity, even the lies, embedded in some of the pseudo-scientific responses from the pesticide advocates and agrochemical lobbies - all of which was edifying. in any case, 1 141 amendments were tabled in committee, probably because of a draft report which did not go far enough and which gave rise to totally antagonistic positions. today, in plenary, 152 amendments have been tabled, a large majority of which are in favour of pesticides. the majority of these amendments propose to delete the inconvenient passages in the text and to rewrite them. i have tabled only one amendment, which seems to me to be extremely urgent and which deals with a matter of seriousness that is difficult to dispute: it is a matter of amending the regulation to ensure effective protection of vulnerable groups. the aim is to stop, without delay or derogation, the long-distance application of pesticides in the vicinity of homes, schools, nurseries, playgrounds, hospitals, maternity hospitals or care facilities. it is worth noting that i have the support of most political groups for co-signing this amendment, which is a proof of its consensual and balanced nature. if the amendments in favour of pesticides were to be adopted and thus distort a text which is already very timid and very disappointing as regards the actions to be taken, it would be clear that this would once again be a victory for the lobbies. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, this pest committee was set up as a result of the monsanto papers. the aim was therefore neither to put pesticides on trial nor to exonerate them of any wrongdoing, but rather to identify the flaws and collusions in the european process and of course to remedy them. as often happens here, the mountain gave birth to a mouse. as is often the case, the desire for consensus has replaced political firmness and listening to the people. a prominent member of this assembly, bruno gollnisch, said of this search for consensus at the expense of substance: 'this is the house of gifts. you have to please everybody and especially your brother, unless of course your brother is a member of the europe of nations and freedoms group. the result is a logical catch-all text, where the only ideas that come out actually make the situation worse. my proposals, which are in line with the wishes of the people, who are asking for more national sovereignty, are obviously the victims of political sectarianism, which is fortunately dying. in the end, the goodwill of the two co-rapporteurs was drowned out by the blindness of the europeans. a great french writer, bossuet, said: "god laughs at men who lament the effects of what they cherish the causes". this maxim seems to have been written for the european union, for its supporters, and i think even for this committee on pesticides. most of my colleagues agreed on one point: efsa was the problem, with its shadowy governance, expensive financial management and proximity to big industry. unfortunately, these same thugs of an all-powerful agency ultimately want to strengthen its means, power and influence. in other words, when the european union creates problems, it would take more european union to solve them. the wave of euroscepticism in italy, austria and poland, the yellow vests in france, brexit: all these upheavals are very clear. the people don't want to see their states die. they don't want more europe. they reject standards that are not relevant to their needs. our amendments were therefore based on simple ideas about the authorisation process for substances. it must be returned to the member states as a whole, it must take account of the experience of farmers in a new pesticide monitoring system, it must also be more transparent, and it must finally be more consistent with the european union's trade policy. in other words, if a substance is banned in europe, then obviously the import of products containing that substance must also be banned. finally, efsa must take responsibility for its actions. i think the joke has gone on long enough. i therefore call for the resignation of the heads of this agency, as a basic prerequisite for a total overhaul of the product authorization system, a overhaul which our group has proposed through precise and concise amendments, in fact quite the opposite of the texts usually issued by this institution.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the glyphosate scandal has shown the manipulation of science to which we are all subject. he showed how big business has hijacked science and hijacked it for their own benefit -- as we saw in the case of the monsanto papers. the evidence was so overwhelming and so blatant that we succeeded, first with three members and then with the involvement of the green and socialist groups, in getting a special committee on the authorisation procedure for pesticides in the european union. thanks to this committee, we were able to discover in detail the shortcomings of the european authorisation system. a system of prodigious complexity, which always manages to allow pesticides to be authorised on the market. it is still incredible to know that it is the industrialist who chooses the rapporteur member state responsible for examining his application, who eliminates the studies whose results he does not like to keep only his own, who decides not to communicate by playing on business secrecy - remember, mr commissioner, we were not allowed to see the studies that the industrialists had. and these same manufacturers are the authors of the evaluations made, in the form of anonymous copy and paste, from the studies they themselves have made. it is also incredible that substances can be authorised in the absence of the expected regulatory studies and benefit from temporary derogations or authorisations that are constantly renewed. it is also incredible that pesticides in third countries are not evaluated or tested as much as substances authorized at european level. it is very important that all members vote on this report. the european elections will be held in may, which is why it is very important that we all stand together to defend the health of european citizens. we must show that it is for politicians to decide the legislation and not for multinationals to decide which products are to be evaluated. this is the future of europe.
madam president, protecting the health of 500 million europeans, preserving the richness of our biodiversity, that is our responsibility. for this reason, the report we co-authored calls for more transparency in the work of our experts, more independence for our agencies and strict application of the precautionary principle. these are the three pillars that structure the quality of this report. i would like to congratulate and thank, as chairman of this committee, first of all the two co-rapporteurs, norbert lins and bart staes, who have done an excellent job in my view, but also all the members who have worked during the nine months of this committee. madam president, as you have seen, not everyone has worked with the same intensity, and some have still remained firm in their initial convictions. mrs mcintyre is one of those people. i think that this committee could have lasted a whole term, nothing would have changed in its initial certainties and that is a pity. it doesn't grow democracy. the recommendations reflect nine months of work, but also the growing and legitimate demands of our fellow citizens for transparency and human health. today, some industrialists are fornicating with former members of parliament to buy their virginity. we must tell them forcefully that they are not above the law, and we demand that industrialists like bayer and monsanto make all their scientific studies public when applying for marketing authorization. in this respect, commissioner, the proposals you made to us to improve the procedure for the authorization of pesticides by efsa, which were voted by our parliament on 11 december, are in the right direction, and i would like to thank pavel poc for his excellent work. we have to go further. we ask the commission to come forward as soon as possible with a communication, followed by a review of european legislation on the authorisation of pharmaceutical products. e health of europeans is at stake, the future is at stake, the clarity and relevance of the work we do here in the european parliament and you do in the european commission.
madam president, commissioner, the important thing about this report is that no one will be able to say: 'i didn't know'. everyone now knows that you are responsible for one of the most serious health scandals in europe, that of glyphosate, because it was decided in full knowledge of the facts to continue to poison people. yes, the commission has failed to protect the health of citizens and has instead protected the lobbies of multinationals like monsanto. i say this with all seriousness: the current procedures for placing pesticides on the market do not protect europe, they pollute europe and kill the living. i therefore call on you once again to withdraw the marketing authorization for the contested pesticides, starting with glyphosate and bee-killing pesticides.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, glyphosate or not glyphosate? that was the question. but what our citizens want is simple: food security and transparency in decision-making. the answer is just as simple: science. we have heard from experts, we have met with many professionals in the field and, more than ever, i am convinced that science must be the unquestionable basis of our decisions. that is what i have been advocating for more than three years in this house, and i welcome the fact that the report reaches the same conclusions. we must work towards a greater understanding of procedures by citizens. we must restore confidence in the national and european agencies, but also in our institutions. we have one of the most demanding and protective systems in the world in europe, let us not forget that. in my view, a high level of safety is a necessary but not sufficient condition. as a farmer myself, i have been campaigning for the alternative to plant protection products and the use of plant protection products for more than ten years. to be demanding, yes, but at the same time guaranteeing our food sovereignty. we must give ourselves the means to our ambitions. research and innovation must be supported. let us not be naive, if we do not allow companies to do research, innovation will come from their competitors. support is also needed for farmers and the agricultural sector to move towards more environmentally friendly practices. let us not oppose agriculture and the environment: all agriculture has its place and meets different expectations. above all, we must support farmers in the face of global competition: let's not import agriculture that we do not want, otherwise we will shoot ourselves in the foot, both in terms of health and environment and economy. i think that the report we have on the table meets these objectives and i would like to commend the work of our rapporteurs. although not everything is perfect, since some of our proposals have not been fully adopted, the main points are there. i hope that we will have a quick response from the commission, as my colleague pilar ayuso has stressed, after this vote, which i hope will be a massive one.
madam president, i have heard some colleagues say that the european food safety system is effective and that we should trust the health authorities. but in the name of the precautionary principle, we should make sure that we do not have all the inconveniences that we know of. i take the example of chlordecone in the french west indies. you know full well the damage that does to the people. prostate cancer has increased dramatically. we can see that we are in a situation where practically 80% of the population is affected. we say yes to greater transparency, but in the name of the precautionary principle we say that we must do everything to ensure that our people are better protected. my colleague éric andrieu and i have asked for the limit values for meat products to be lowered. so far, we have no answer. we expect you to do whatever is necessary to ensure that we have a better guarantee of the health of our people.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the committee on transport and tourism (tran) and particularly ms monteiro de aguiar and the shadow rapporteurs for this overall balanced and well-drafted report on the commission’s proposal to update the rules relating to the use of hired goods vehicles. the use of hired vehicles instead of vehicles owned by transport operators increases the efficiency of these operators. it represents an attractive alternative to the purchase of potentially under-used vehicles. what is more – and this is an increasingly important aspect – hired vehicles are usually newer, cleaner and safer than the vehicles owned by the operators. the average age of hired vehicles is significantly below the average age of the vehicles that are owned by the operators. they usually meet the latest environmental and safety standards. hired vehicles are hence good both for road safety and the environment. the revision of the rules relating to the use of hired goods vehicles aims at removing outdated restrictions and those facilitating the use of these modern and clean vehicles. in addition, we want to ensure that operators may also use vehicles they have hired outside their countries of establishment and give them legal certainty when they do that. when you hire a vehicle, you should be able to use it anywhere in the eu and not be subject to different restrictions depending on where you are operating. to avoid unwanted consequences such as the large-scale flagging-out of fleets, the use of vehicles hired in another member state may be limited to some extent, but those limitations should still allow operators first to meet in particular short-term, seasonal or temporary demand peaks, or to replace defective or damaged vehicles whenever this occurs. these are examples where our research has found that the possibility to use vehicles hired abroad would be most needed. ms monteiro de aguiar’s report is right in moving possible restrictions on the use of hired vehicles from article 2 to article 3 of the directive. this ensures that member states will not be able to restrict the use of a hired goods vehicle on their territory if the use of that vehicle is allowed on the territory of the member states where the operator using it is established. in other words, as long as you can use a hired vehicle in your home country, you can use it everywhere in the eu. the amendments that have been tabled for the plenary vote tomorrow are to a large extent also acceptable to the commission. however, i have to mention specifically two amendments which could destroy the delicate balance created by ms monteiro de aguiar. first, one amendment would allow a member state to restrict the use of hired vehicles by a foreign operator that do not meet the latest environmental standards. one of the arguments in favour of the use of hired vehicles is that they are usually newer and cleaner than other vehicles. this should hence not be a big issue. however, such a provision would destroy the legal certainty created by ms monteiro de aguiar’s report, as it would allow member states to apply different restrictions to hired vehicles. you would first have to check where you could drive with your hired vehicle depending on where you want to use it, while no such restriction would apply to vehicles owned by operators. another amendment which raises concerns is the one allowing member states to restrict the use of hired vehicles for own-account operations. we have found that in the few countries where such restrictions are currently applied we have more empty runs. moreover, this provision leads to a patchwork of legal rules in the member states and has no legal certainty for companies using hired vehicles. having said this, we can accept all the other amendments which increase the information provided to drivers and which strengthen compliance with and enforcement of the directive. i am looking forward to all the comments from your side.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, opening up the possibility for companies to lease vehicles for the transport of goods at union level can help transport companies to cope with the hazards of their activity, and i am in favour of this. on the other hand, this implies a text free from any legal loopholes which encourage fraud, both at social and tax level. in other words, we need clear and firm safeguards. i was in favour of a limitation of the rental period to a maximum of one month, twice a year, and then a limitation in volume to a maximum of 25% of the fleet. the text voted on in the committee on transport does not retain these requirements. it is still largely inadequate and does not provide the necessary guarantees. allowing unrestricted rental and prohibiting member states from limiting it to less than four consecutive months is knowingly opening the door to abuse. abuses in taxation, in the light of the fight against letterbox companies and abusive rotation practices in several countries, which lead to revenue losses for member states; abuse in the social field, with the exploitation of road workers by abusive employers; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the rail freight sector. i will refuse to open this breach and oppose this text.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, madam commissioner, this report, as so often happens when it comes to gender equality, is completely lunar. because there are too many men in the european institutions or elected to the european parliament, you advocate strict equal lists and mandatory quotas for women. at the same time, you are saddened that the legitimacy of women in the political sphere and in parliament is being questioned. are you so blinded by your egalitarian ideology that you cannot see this reality? it is clear, however, that our credibility as women is being violently challenged by such measures. how can you trust a recruiter when he's choosing under the constraint of absurd quotas? how can you be a credible elected official in the face of the citizens who say about you, "she was elected because she is a woman"? another mistake in this text is the importance, according to you, of deconstructing gender stereotypes in our communication, using no longer the masculine or feminine but a degenerate and inclusive language to not stigmatize anyone and especially not lgbt people. this would be laughable if the social situation in european countries were not so catastrophic. do you really think that our fellow citizens - and i am thinking in particular of the yellow vests in france, who have been demonstrating for almost two months to avoid having to choose between paying their rent and pleasing their children - are shocked that parity is not respected in the committees of the european parliament? at a time when europe is no longer able to protect its citizens because of the strait-laced borders that millions of migrants easily cross, at a time when mr juncker, with his free trade agreements, is putting millions of europeans out of work, at a time when communitarianism and islamism are rampant in our countries and threaten the lives of our citizens, your priority for the next elections is the deconstruction of gender stereotypes in the name of inclusion. like the new idol of the europeanists, mr macron, you are demonstrating, by this text, your total disconnection from the real world, if that were even possible. in may, europeans will show you what their real priorities are and they will go to the polls to explain what they expect from the elected representatives who represent them. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
the answer is 'blue card'. thank you for your question. i didn't mention women driving cars, so i don't really understand. on the other hand, i agree with you completely on equal pay for men and women, i think it is the minimum. i agree that attitudes must change, but this does not have to come from reports from the european union. it's a matter of attitude. people should not be forced to hire or nominate a woman because she is a woman, they should hire a woman or nominate a woman for elections or for higher positions because she is capable of doing so and that's it.
madam president, in 1453, in constantinople, under siege by the turks, there was a discourse on the sexes of angels. in 2019, in a european union in full decline, there is a discourse on the gender of meps. the text on gender equality has all the usual flaws in this parliament. it is wordy, with three pages of references and over 30 recitals. it condenses the characteristics of so-called 'political correctness' in this matter. it proceeds from the idea that the roles of men and women, which are naturally complementary, must be absolutely identical in everything, always, everywhere. the only thing that matters to you is that there are absolutely as many men and women everywhere, whatever the vocation, tastes, abilities, sensitivities of each. equality everywhere, but then how do we count the third, fourth, fifth sexes, and what place do we have for those lgbti people, who you have a mouthful of, if i may say so? the result is a guilt-ridden and infantilized attitude towards all members of parliament and, of course, men.
madam president, i am wrong about what has been said, because this iter project is not relevant because it is too late. what does the ipcc say? he says that to solve the problem of global warming, we must produce co2-free electricity by 2050. however, the iter project has been very late and the first prototype to produce electricity will not arrive until 2050. so we're spending a lot of money on a project that's going to be too late. why so much money? because at the beginning, we were told that iter was 5 billion euros. we're at 20 billion euros, and the us department of energy has estimated the cost of iter, including operation, at 65 billion euros. it's really oversized. it is also a very large project. it's very centralized and there are a lot of technical problems. we want to try to put the sun in a box and we're incapable of making the box. there are problems of disruption and so on. as my colleague marian-jean marinescu said, it is even an undemocratic project. we as parliamentarians do not have codecision. the project is being carried out within the framework of the euratom treaty and only the member states decide. so we have to look at things rationally and i do not think iter is the solution to global warming.
this item has been closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 january 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the brief presentation of the report by brian hayes on the evaluation of the way the union budget is used for public sector reform (2018/2086 (ini)) (a8-0378/2018) (the sitting was suspended for a moment)
this item has been closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 january 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the brief presentation of the report by mr andrzej grzyb on the guidelines of the european union and the mandate of the union special envoy for the promotion of freedom of religion or belief outside the european union (2018/2155 (ini)) (a8-0449/2018)
this item has been closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 january 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the brief presentation of the report by marisa matias and ernest urtasun on gender equality and tax policies in the european union (2018/2095 (ini)) (a8-0416/2018).
this item has been closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 january 2019.
the agenda calls for the brief presentation of the report by wim van de camp on autonomous vehicles in european transport (2018/2089 (ini)) (a8-0425/2018).
this item has been closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 january 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for one-minute speeches on important political issues (rule 163).
madam president, earlier this year the dutch daily financieele dagblad revealed that google had transferred €20 billion to bermuda. this intolerable fraud, at a time when so many of our citizens are struggling to make ends meet or are deprived of public services, is draining billions of euros from the state budget every year. 1 000 billion for the european union, which should be used to finance schools, hospitals, transport, environmental transition, instead of filling the bank accounts of the minority of the richest 1%. after that, the commission harasses the member states on their public deficits, forbidding them any ambitious social policy. the money is still there, in those black holes of finance. this is why it is urgent that the commission and the european council, in conjunction with the international proposals of the oecd, prohibit these practices and oblige multinationals and banks to return the money stolen and pay their fair share of the contribution to the common good.
this item has been closed.
madam president, like the united nations and the marrakesh pact, the brussels commission believes that the flood of migration is a fatality that must be accepted, or even a chance that must be seized. it wants to facilitate this by three foolish measures: firstly, the adoption of a dublin iv regulation which would distribute new migrants among the european states, according to a system of compulsory quotas; secondly, the creation of legal immigration routes; and thirdly, the abandonment of internal border controls which several european states have re-established for more than two years in reaction to the absurd schengen agreement. none of these three measures will succeed. they will suffer the same failure as the juncker plan of 2015, which aimed to relocate 160,000 migrants and which several european states have rightly resisted in order to preserve their national identity. the people of europe are mortal, they know it and they don't want to die. the brussels commission is also deadly, but it seems to ignore it. if we do not listen to the people of europe, it will be the eu that will disappear.
mr president, my point of order is based on rule 25 and on several articles of the implementing measures of the staff regulations, including, i believe, rule 74. on 10 december the bureau took the decision to postpone the start of the supplementary pension for members until they are 65, to reduce it by 5%, to de-index it and to ask the secretary-general to consider going further. this is all the more unusual since this supplementary pension fund was set up by parliament in 1990. some colleagues have paid very heavy contributions for 15 years, with prospects clearly indicated to them in the official documents of parliament. he had already been violated in march 2009, but with the promise that nothing would change. the financial difficulties of this pension fund are cited, but the parliament itself is the cause of these difficulties, since, when the single statute for members was adopted in 2009, it decided that there would be no more contributors to the pension fund. the logic would therefore be for parliament to take over the service of this regime, which it created and with which it cooperates. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the member states are able to apply the new system of pension schemes, and this is all the more so now that, ladies and gentlemen, members of parliament have been entitled to a new pension scheme without ever having to pay a single penny in contributions since they reached the age of 63. i have no further comment to make. how far will we go in violating the acquired rights of parliamentarians? do you think that the prestige of the institution is protected by infringing the rights of the oldest members of this house in a way that would not be acceptable to ordinary citizens?
mr. president, madam prime minister, welcome to your former home. i want to speak here about the multiannual financial framework. as you know, parliament's position on this matter is clear: the european project needs an ambitious level of spending, geared towards the implementation of the sustainable development objectives, starting with the fight against global warming and the fight against social and territorial inequalities. in the face of the rise of extremes, the future of the european project requires a just transition to a new model of economic development. the council must be well aware that without significant progress on the resources side, the european parliament will not give its assent on the expenditure side. i find that there is almost no progress on this aspect of resources. i understand that you would like to define the broad lines of a possible agreement on the multiannual financial framework in may. can you explain what you mean by 'broad outlines' and how you intend to take parliament's opinion into account?
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr president of the central bank, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, as our parliamentary term draws to a close, we are going to vote on the central bank's report. fortunately, we celebrated the 20th anniversary of the euro this morning, and it is an emotional moment, mr president draghi, as this is your last presentation to the european parliament. the messages in this report are many. i think i can say that the european central bank has done its job more than well, particularly in the second decade. of course, the european central bank cannot do everything, and the member states themselves are called upon to be vigilant about public spending, its control and its good orientation in the service of citizens and the competitiveness of the economy. the european central bank will remain vigilant on a wide range of issues: the level of prices on the housing market, bank lending smart lending , with a focus on future investments. i think the acknowledged success of the euro is a miracle because, 20 years ago, we created a currency without a state, and this is a unique situation in the world. this shows how urgent it is to give the euro area the economic, financial, budgetary and social governance it needs to overcome its inherent handicap. at a time when multilateralism is being called into question, when world economic war is looming, i think it would be good if we had the ambition to make the euro a weapon, as the united states does, namely that they can, under certain circumstances, sanction banks and companies from third countries. ladies and gentlemen, in these times of crisis, the euro and the european central bank are making a major contribution to the resilience of the european union. the euro and the european central bank are the emblems of our confidence in the future of europe. but beware, the european central bank must not be the crutch of the inadequacies of political governance.
mr president, mr draghi, allow me to admire you. what a nerve! on the eve of a financial crisis that all the experts expected, you come to us and tell us that everything is fine. you should have known - and you know - that the euro needed a federal budget. since nobody wanted this budget, you had one option: use the central bank - which was also proposed by mr maystadt, the president of the bis and the italian deposit bank - to finance the real economy of the countries of the south and reduce disparity. this policy was not wanted by the germans in 2012. today you got away with buying $2.6 trillion in government debt and cancelling interest rates. the result is more debt, less wealth creation and more deficits. this is a bust!
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, for french patriots, the federalist directive on the banking union is totalitarian and anti-democratic legislation. total because, since november 2014, the member states have lost their banking sovereignty to the ecb, which is absent today. this supranational institution, independent of any state, is not subject to any real democratic control. with the transfer of political power to the unelected technocrats of frankfurt, our national political leaders have committed the grave error of severing the organic link between the state and its banking system, rendering the states totally powerless. in the next big systemic shock or a big crash in the financial markets, bank deposits and customers' savings in their banks will be plundered. in a euro area where financial globalism is exposing the banking system to a permanent risk of insolvency, the federalist directive of the banking union is extremely dangerous for the financial and socio-economic stability of european countries. in the name of democracy and the general interest of the citizens, we must urgently put an end to this europeanist aberration of the banking union and return the power of control over our banks to the strictly national level, that is to say, to the people.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, i think we are dealing here with a very useful report on the state of the banking union. you have already mentioned a number of points, and i would like to point out how essential the proper functioning of this banking union is to the very functioning of our economy. i would like to draw your attention to two messages. the first message is that we need to go further. as you mentioned, the fight against money laundering requires in particular that the european banking authority be strengthened - that is the choice you have made and this parliament has supported you - so that it becomes a real pool with the other supervisory authorities, to make the fight against money laundering a decisive element. this will only be possible with a review of the governance of the supervisory authorities, and we want the commission to support us fully in the mandate given to us by a large majority in our committee responsible. the second message i would like to make here relates to the famous debate between risk reduction and risk sharing, because we have the impression that sometimes some member states, some members of this parliament, have the capacity to exercise the gradual shifting of requirements in a completely unacceptable way. the european deposit insurance scheme has been part of the banking union since day one. we therefore have a requirement: what has been done to reduce risks, under the pressure of time and at the request of a number of member states, must be accompanied, rewarded in some way, by what is due, namely this commitment to the european deposit insurance system. we also count on the commission's determination to move forward on this.
mr president, i would like to speak about your irresponsibility, ladies and gentlemen. irresponsibility, because at a time when banks are no longer lending to each other, when markets no longer trust banks, you want to create a european banking union. irresponsibility, because you do not want to acknowledge that it is monetary union that creates the responsible debt because it is always the other who will pay. irresponsibility too, because now it is the citizen who will pay because we are going out of the bail-out to enter the lease-in, which means that it is the citizens themselves who will pay. behind this irresponsibility there is only one responsibility: to take matters into our own hands at national level and renationalize the central banks so that we can face the coming crisis.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, i believe that this parliament has improved the commission's proposal and we can only be pleased about that because this proposal is absolutely essential to reviving investment within the european union, which we know is sorely lacking. it is essential for our citizens, for our businesses and for our territories. we welcome the commission's proposal to simplify the terms of this investment and to allow for complementarity with other instruments, including those of cohesion policy, which we consider to be a significant step forward. the investment objectives adopted seem to us to be quite exemplary in relation to what the economic strategy of the european union should be, since they reconcile sustainable development, the objectives of the paris conference and social investment, not to mention the creative and cultural industries. finally, we believe that, again at the initiative of this parliament, the strengthening of the national development banks will only improve the ability of such a plan to succeed and to finance, where necessary, the investments needed for better growth creating sustainable jobs in europe.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is an additional ingredient to this explosive cocktail, which is added to the others, notably the mercosur agreement. the consequences will be terrible for our agricultural and fisheries sectors, for our overseas territories, particularly bananas, sugar and rum, of course, and for the health of consumers in general. colombia, as you all know, is an economic heavyweight that does not respect health standards, environmental standards, human rights, children's rights or labour law. trade unionists are murdered, drug cartels still thrive and health care is very unequal. in peru, almost 3 million children aged 6 to 17 are working outside any legal framework and without any social protection. you are spreading slavery and famine in these third countries, you are ruining the health of our fellow citizens and you are destroying our supply chains. they're all merchants, but they're all doers. these negotiations benefit multinational companies and are against the people.
madam president, commissioner, once again we are presented with yet another trade agreement between the european union and a third country area. the file is worrying and includes negative points, such as a huge trade deficit in favour of the european union, a totally deficient overall estimate of trade flows and a lack of protection of geographical indications of european products. although it is smaller in scope than the mercosur agreement, the new agreement contains a number of major hidden flaws. central america is fully integrated into the large continental american market: the transgenic seeds of bayer monsanto, the beef of the mexican giant sukarne passing through nicaragua, or the transgenic salmon passing, not a bad wordplay, through the panama canal are particularly noteworthy. once again, we must say no to such an agreement in the name of our agriculture, our independence and food security, and our commercial interests.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the esf+ regulation is an opportunity to provide the fair, equitable and effective tools for the social europe that we socialists and democrats have been calling for for many years. in the light of the report - and the committee on budgets, of course, supported this good report - i would like to emphasize the following three priorities: the upgrading of a fund for the most disadvantaged and the fight against unemployment, with, above all, the integration of the child guarantee; support for food banks - this is important - and for ngos working to alleviate food deprivation, poverty and social exclusion; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in member states concerning the taking-up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i would like to thank my colleague, brando benifei, who has led this fight despite the resistance, and sometimes even opposition, of political forces that would like us to believe that they are progressive. i wanted to report it. this fund will of course be integrated into the multiannual financial framework (mff). it is now up to the council to decide how to make it accessible to the greatest number.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, mr prime minister, less than a year ago you accidentally found yourself at the head of spain thanks to the scandal surrounding mariano rajoy. your arrival was a miracle for the spanish socialist party, which has only 80 seats in the chamber of deputies, but a disaster for the spaniards who are suffering today from your policies. your first act was to welcome the aquarius, a ship belonging to a franco-german ngo whose trade fund is supporting illegal immigration in the mediterranean. the mafia that thrives on human trafficking uses and abuses the naivety of europeans. smugglers are the main beneficiaries of these so-called humanitarian operations, which allow them to save a lot of fuel on their makeshift boats, where they cram migrants. mr macron and mrs merkel, delighted to receive this unexpected support for their insane migration policy, have obviously been quick to congratulate you. last summer you received mrs merkel twice, the second time at your summer residence in andalusia. without consulting the spanish, you made a deal with the chancellor to take back the excess migrants she wants to finally get rid of after opening her borders wide in 2015. in your zeal, you did not even realize that you were calling morocco an underdeveloped country by speaking, i quote, of 'an abyss of inequalities'. your predecessors nevertheless concluded several agreements with this country, the most stable and prosperous in the maghreb, including an agreement on the readmission of illegal immigrants, which is all the more important as only 14 kilometres separate southern spain from northern morocco. but after you showed your willingness to welcome illegal immigrants, they obviously rushed to your doors and then there were chaotic scenes of migrants pouring into ceuta and melilla attacking your border guards, sometimes with weapons. subject to berlin, you are also subject to brussels. and for a long time now. in 2011, in the discretion of the summer and at your instigation, the socialist party decided to support a major amendment to the spanish constitution. since then, every government has been bound by its own constitution to comply with the budgetary injunctions of the european commission. but the spanish people are waking up. since the beginning of december, a party that your friends treated with condescension has made a historic breakthrough in your andalusian fief. i am, of course, talking about vox, which, as part of a coalition, has helped to unseat the socialists who have held this region for 40 years. and this is just the beginning, because santiago abascal is putting you in charge: in 2018, thanks to you, the arrivals of migrants increased by 129 percent compared to 2017. in contrast, in matteo salvini's italy, illegal immigration has fallen by more than 95% because the message is clear: italians can no longer tolerate people flouting their laws by entering their country illegally. and this is all the more so since the mafia - the real one, the one matteo salvini is fighting against relentlessly - exploits human misery in all these trafficking. a recent article in the guardian newspaper reported that smuggling migrants is more profitable than drug trafficking. not to mention the multinationals who often welcome the arrival of cheap labour. mr prime minister, the solution to the migration problem is a matter of political will, because the guardia civil are just as competent and determined as their italian counterparts. but instead of relying on them, you chose to announce before christmas the creation of a special fund dedicated to the integration of migrants. well, i predict the spanish won't be able to stand your irresponsibility for much longer.
mr president, mr president of the spanish government, on 5 november last i went to visit my former colleagues in the european parliament who are now in prison in spain. is it possible today to imagine that we are in such a situation, that people who were elected, first at european level, then in catalonia, legally, can be imprisoned for their political ideas? we have repeatedly denounced the illiberal policies of mr orbán in this parliament; we have denounced the illiberal policies of poland; we have denounced the illiberal policies of the united kingdom; we have denounced the illiberal policies of the united kingdom; we have denounced the illiberal policies of the united kingdom; we have denounced the illiberal policies of the united kingdom; we have denounced the illiberal policies of the united kingdom; we have denounced the illiberal policies of the united kingdom; we have denounced the illiberal policies of the united kingdom; we have denounced the illiberal policies of the united kingdom; we have denounced the illiberal policies of the united kingdom; we have denounced the illiberal policies of the united kingdom; we have denounced the illiberal policies of the united kingdom. the attacks on rights that are taking place today in other european countries have rightly been denounced. is spain, because of its constitution and because of the policy being pursued in catalonia, joining the camp of these countries? i think that's a shame. i heard your speech, but how is it that people, members of parliament, members of regional governments and association leaders, are in prison today? i heard your call for dialogue and i share it, but if we want to have a dialogue, it is not with people in prison. you need to get these people released so we can talk. none of them has ever decided to not take responsibility, even in court, even if they do not agree to be in court. release these people, and then you will be an act of democracy.
mr president, mr prime minister, thank you for your speech. thank you for this speech, which gives the european union a glimmer of hope by highlighting social issues, ecological issues, issues of solidarity and values, as well as european budgetary issues where you have been extremely ambitious, given that 1% of the gdp of the member states is not enough to have strong european proposals. you have also gone too far in your talk about a federal europe. that's good to hear, and thank you. i wanted to review the situation in andalusia. we are very concerned here and we absolutely need to put an end to any form of ambiguity, any form of unnatural alliance between right-wing and far-right forces. this is absolutely outrageous. you can count on us to continue to be consistent and to make this alliance with progressive left-wing and environmental forces.
mr president, this report on the authorisation of pesticides in the european union follows the serious dysfunctions of the european food safety authority (efsa). the glyphosate re-evaluation process and the monsanto papers have shown that the system is fallible but, more importantly, likely corruptible. after nine months of special committee work in the european parliament, we have come to a rather timid text. it only marginally meets the challenge of protecting the health of europeans from pesticides. nevertheless, i note some progress which will be decisive in the development of a thorough reform of the pesticide authorisation processes. i therefore voted in favour of this report, bearing in mind that we will have to, in one way or another, force efsa to be more transparent in order to avoid conflicts of interest.
mr president, we have just voted on recommendations to improve the efficiency of the detection and prohibition of dangerous plant protection products. that's good, and everybody is happy about it, except at the same time, the press reveals that one of the institutes that worked for the european food safety authority had simply copied and pasted a large part of the reports from monsanto, which is the manufacturer of glyphosate, each of which here emphasizes the danger. we are facing a scandal and we cannot allow it. we need to point the finger at those responsible. parliament must hold both the commissioner and the director of the european food safety authority to account. if not, what credibility do we have? i think we should be proud of the progress we are making towards better control and the banning of certain dangerous substances, but we should also be able to punish those responsible for such actions.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, teaching the history of totalitarianism is essential, and i am not the visceral anti-communist who will tell you otherwise. but it is not the european parliament's job to look after education, especially when millions of europeans, who suffer from poverty, insecurity and the flood of migration, never see their problems resolved. the fact that elected officials want to influence research and teaching does not bode well for historical truth. the history of totalitarianism teaches us this. this is already the case in many european countries. the current trend towards soft totalitarianism within the european union is expressed in the guilt-blaming, the oukases, the banning, the propaganda in schools, the police and judicial persecution of movements resisting euro-globalism, as in italy, greece, belgium, germany, or in france against the national rally or the yellow vests. the aim of history must be to extract future generations from the current well-meaning european totalitarianism and the king market, and thus to preserve them from the one that is coming, islamic totalitarianism.
mr president, i would like to congratulate our colleague mr andrey kovatchev on taking the initiative in this debate. the teaching of history is not a community competence and should not become one, but the union cannot ignore the reappearance, almost everywhere in europe, of hate speech in public debate. in two generations, europe has gone from the doom of recurrent war to almost perpetual peace. it's a miracle, you know. this miracle was only possible thanks to the construction of europe, which has reconciled our peoples year after year by mobilising them, no longer against each other, but around a common project. but now, here and there, we are training a new generation of nationalists with our children. and finally, we should be wary of fake news, and we should be wary of fake history, the kind that has played such a dramatic role in the tragedies of the 20th century. yes, a thousand times yes to the national narrative, no to the national novel.
in writing. in the darkest hours of our history, this is the european union's lifeline in the face of the growing rejection of its peoples. this almost obsessive evocation of the atrocities that marked the 20th century, from the holocaust to stalinism, has become the raison d'être of a union since the turn of the millennium, unable to base its legitimacy on a genuine popular consensus. it is therefore not surprising that, as the protest grows, the commission multiplies the commemorations, bringing the millennial history of our continent back to the unique tragedy of the deadly totalitarianisms, of which the european construction would be the antidote. let us be clear: the memory of the millions of victims of nazism and communism is an urgent requirement. however, the question of whether he misused it for political purposes is highly questionable. because one of the lessons we have to learn from the experience of totalitarianism is that history belongs to historians, not to ideologists.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, this annual report on the respect or non-respect of fundamental rights in the union may seem routine, but it is not. as rapporteur for the socialists and democrats, i can say that 2017 was a pivotal year for many rights, and what we are talking about today is crucial. i would like to highlight certain principles and rights that have been violated, and on which collective firmness has been required during the negotiations, because in my view they are non-negotiable. rule of law: in several member states, reforms contrary to the rule of law and democracy are being undertaken threats to the independence of the judiciary, the health of ngos, corruption, media profiteering. the report lists these borderline, or sometimes outright illegal, policies and urges states to change course. the council and the commission should continue the current article 7 assessments and sanction countries if necessary. women's rights: in 2017, sexual harassment and assault received a lot of media attention, thanks to the me too movement. we all know that women's rights are never acquired. beyond economic equality in education and the fight against violence, it is time for member states to guarantee equitable access to family planning, modern contraceptives and safe and legal abortion, which is not always the case today. every woman in europe must have the right to decide what she does or does not do with her body in a safe way. despite the opposition of some on the right on this point, my group is fighting for the report to retain this imperative. migration: while arrivals have been declining since 2017 and the parliament has already adopted its position, member states still refuse to organise themselves at european level. we therefore call on them once again to agree on the reform of the dublin regulation. there are so many other important themes in this report, including the fight against discrimination of all kinds - homophobia, racism, anti-semitism, etc. - and the importance of guaranteeing the rights of european and british citizens in the context of brexit. these remarks and suggestions are obviously messages to the member states, to the commission and to parliament. they must be heard. and i'm gonna take five seconds to wish a wonderful birthday to my daughter who, as of this minute, is turning 18. happy birthday, she's looking at me.
the commission has already taken action on this. mr michel, my question will be very brief. you are a very prominent belgian politician. do you not find it surprising that in your country, belgium, one of the main opposition parties, the vlaams blok, was virtually banned by the courts a few years ago, without any protest being raised in the ranks of this parliament?
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i should like to begin by thanking our rapporteur and all the fictitious rapporteurs. this structure in five thematic chapters highlights the most obvious areas of decline in rights, starting with the rule of law on which all political construction is based or should be based. failure to do so should be punished. without the rule of law, without respect for human rights, democracy is in danger. i am beginning to dream of the commission's response in this area being as effective as it is in economic and budgetary matters. we're not even close. among the fundamental ones are the separation of powers, the independence of the judiciary, but also freedom of expression, the media, women's rights and hate speech. how can we be surprised that gangrene is spreading towards all minorities, whatever they may be, and that migrants are being scapegoated if it is the political leaders, including government officials, who are setting the wrong example? we saw this with the surreal debate around the marrakesh pact, with which we reached heights of bad faith, including on the part of some governments, questioning a text that they had adopted in july 2018 unanimously. a society is judged by how it treats its most vulnerable members. i fear that the judgment of history will be rather ruthless towards those who rule us today.
mr president, fundamental rights are under threat in europe, but not in the way that the report describes. it is the accumulation of laws that restrict, for example, freedom of expression, memorial laws or other laws. criticism of immigration - as we can see here - is considered racist and xenophobic. i want to see what mr michel just said. they were parliamentarians, a political movement that ran legitimately in elections, peacefully, and whose deputies were regularly elected. but mr michel has only to say that these members are engaged in hate speech and are unconstitutional, and he claims the right, with the majority of this house, to take away their rights. the defence of the traditional family is equated with gender stereotypes or homophobia. legitimate questioning of contemporary history is equated with negationism. there are several hundred political prisoners in germany, including the recently amputated 83-year-old lawyer horst mahler and mrs ursula haverbeck, who was imprisoned at the age of 90 for a crime of opinion. what hypocrisy in this chamber!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 2017 was a dark year for fundamental rights, and particularly for freedom of expression. too often, too often, in this house, we have been silent to honour the memory and the determination of those who have died in the line of duty. these are the actors of democracy who have been threatened for their role as whistleblowers, murdered because they touched too closely to issues of anti-corruption, money laundering, tax evasion. have we learned the lessons of these threats to freedom of expression and freedom of information? at a time when a disturbing anti-media rhetoric is developing in our political arenas, when harassment, intimidation and attacks against human rights defenders are becoming commonplace, it is worth recalling beaumarchais, who said: "without the freedom to blame, there is no flattering praise". that is why i strongly support this report which highlights the disproportionate pressures that were put on these fundamental rights in 2017.
the agenda calls for votes. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, mr hoyer, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed undeniable that the european investment bank contributes to the financing of economic activity within the european union, and even beyond. i have noted your remark on the adverse effects of a brexit such as it might have. naturally, this report emphasizes this very positive role, but i would like to draw the eib's attention to a number of points, and in particular to draw your attention to the fact that you should not behave like a private bank, but act where funding is lacking. you must, and this has been stressed, reduce your dollar-funded projects for obvious reasons concerning the united states, fight, perhaps beyond what we want in parliament, against poverty and, in fact, fight against climate change, in order to go in the direction of what europe wants. finally, you must continue your efforts to reform governance and to make things more transparent, not only for yourselves but also for your intermediaries. in the area of tax fraud and money laundering, we call on the eib to be particularly vigilant about the new tactics and techniques used by criminals. finally, as an alternate member of the committee on development, i would like to encourage you to play your part in financing the developing countries, and particularly our african partners. i therefore urge you to give priority to financing these projects, in particular so that they benefit local actors, but also so that the states can generate tax revenues which then allow them to finance their economic policy. i think this report is very pro-european and i congratulate the rapporteur on it and i therefore invite my colleagues to support it.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, i thank barbara kappel for this excellent report. that was emphasized by everyone. i will refrain from doing so. i'll abstain because of mr. hoyer. mr. hoyer, i must reproach you for your lack of boldness. i reproach you for not adapting the bank to the particular situation and ask you to take the example of philippe maystadt who, in 2012, came to lunch at home. what did he propose? we have moved from financing only in the markets to finding financing directly from the central bank, long-term financing tailored to the project, which opens up a huge capacity for financing. secondly, it proposed the creation of an investment agency linked to the european bank, to finance projects that are not market projects or that are located in areas that have become poorer because of the euro, in order to harmonise the north and the south. since the euro, the north and south of the area have only become more unequal. this is one way of adapting the instrument to the new challenges facing europe.
mr president, article 3 of the declaration of the rights of man and of the citizen of 1789 is very clear: 'the principle of all sovereignty lies essentially in the nation. no body, no individual can exercise authority which is not expressly granted by it. the european commission is not a body whose authority emanates from any one nation. by giving the commissioners the power to sanction member states which do not respect the supposed values of the european union, your text in reality violates this fundamental right of peoples to decide sovereignly on the policy they wish to see applied in their own countries. according to orbán's case law, a country could be deprived of european funds, to which it contributes, for such frivolous reasons as the closure of a university funded by foreign funds or the refusal to open its borders to all the misery in the world. the doctrine of limited sovereignty, as conceived by soviet leader brezhnev, is all too well remembered. as the european union today recycles this concept under the guise of democracy and the rule of law, let me hope that it will suffer the same fate as the ussr it seems to want to imitate, so that popular sovereignty and democracy will live on.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, democracy is too precious, too fragile and too serious a gem to be left in the hands of governments alone. there is no democracy without the rule of law, as enshrined in the preamble to the european charter of fundamental rights. i quote: 'the union is based on the principle of democracy and the rule of law'. it is therefore her duty to guarantee them. yet, in recent years, what was once considered unacceptable and dangerous has reappeared. against freedom of the press, against the independence of the judiciary, against human rights. unfortunately, they are increasingly common in all parts of europe. i would add that no member state is immune. it was therefore urgent for the union to have an effective tool to put an end to these failures and to punish the governments responsible. i would like to thank the commission for this initiative, but especially my colleagues mrs gardiazabal and mr sarvamaa, who have done a remarkable job in cutting through this mechanism of budgetary sanctions, which is rooted in the values of the union deriving from article 2 and which responds to a flaw in our legal system, as commissioner oettinger said. however, in order to find a legal basis in the current state of the treaties, this mechanism had to be linked to the budget of the european union, which makes us particularly vigilant about its application, for two reasons. firstly, we will be vigilant in its implementation to ensure that it actually punishes governments, not citizens who receive european funds, because it would be completely absurd if it were students, research laboratories, universities, farmers or regions who were the victims of the mistakes made by their governments. it would be a kind of double punishment. we will also be vigilant to prevent this instrument of defending the rule of law from becoming a tool for budgetary management or, i should say, for managing the budgetary shortage, given the poverty of our budget. i hope the commission will not be tempted.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, frightened by the idea that a majority of eurosceptic members will be sitting here in may, the european commission is trying by all means to strengthen its repressive power. the last is a regulation which proposes to suspend the allocation of eu funds to member states accused of violating the rule of law. in practical terms, and with your approval, the commission can now cut off the food supplies of any country that does not bow to its whims. the mere refusal to take in migrants or to implement the budgetary purge imposed by the commission will therefore lead to a suspension of eu funds. this constant blackmail of european funds is unacceptable because, on the one hand, these funds come precisely from the national contributions of the member states and, on the other hand, because these italian, polish or hungarian governments, which are so displeasing to the commission, were elected by the people. we therefore reject any form of conditionality in the allocation of european funds.
the committee on culture and education has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, the european union is experiencing a sharp rise in intolerance, nationalist and eurosceptic movements of all stripes, and also disinformation of an unprecedented scale. this calls into question the sense of belonging to a common space and democratic principles. to support dialogue between europeans and to strengthen mutual understanding, it is essential to defend this programme and to ensure that it is endowed with a budget that is commensurate with the challenges it faces. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the various fictitious rapporteurs for their commitment to an ambitious programme 'citizens, equality, rights and values'. it is in this spirit that the committee on culture and education supported the doubling of the budget for active citizenship to eur 500 million for the period 2021-2027. these funds will be used to support local organisations and citizens' groups working for inclusive and participatory citizenship, with the continuation of the work of remembrance and the promotion of a sense of belonging to a common europe. on the eve of major elections for the future of europe, this increased support is symbolic. the council can count on the european parliament's determination to defend increased resources for projects that come from the ground, led by citizens, networks of cities or twin cities. all these projects, i believe, help to nurture a democratic, civic and culturally diverse europe.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members very much for their valuable comments. since 2001, the european union has consistently contributed support for the decommissioning of ignalina. the european union is committed to meeting its commitment towards lithuania, as provided for in lithuania’s accession treaty. the decommissioning plan established by lithuania, and agreed by the commission, has scheduled activities until 2038, when all pre-existing installations will have been removed and the radioactive waste safely stored or disposed of. based on that schedule, the commission proposal covers all the needs for the key dismantling projects to be started up to 2027. as for your calls for increasing the budget, i cannot of course promise you anything. i don’t have the power to do so from my colleagues, but i will inform them of the core outcomes of this debate. finally, i want to thank parliament for the great commitment to advancing this multiannual financial framework package as much as possible.
the rapporteur. mr president, i thank you, madam commissioner, for being here, we feel a little less lonely and it warms the soul a little this morning. i would first of all like to thank, since they are here, the representatives of the committee on constitutional affairs, all those who have worked with me, and in particular mr jáuregui, who has worked not only on this report but also on his report. this report on differentiated integration is a follow-up to the commission's proposal, namely the famous five scenarios that president juncker came here to present. this report is part of the commission's third proposal, the one which obviously has the support of the european parliament, namely a europe that makes progress and a europe that enables those who want to make progress to make progress. it is in this spirit that we are presenting this report. we are in a very specific moment for the european union. there is brexit, there is the difficulty of making our voices heard by the citizens, but above all there is the danger of entering a europe at different speeds: a first-class europe for some, a second- or even third-class europe for others. we must succeed in keeping our unity, that is the challenge we are trying to face together. the report opens up a number of possibilities. it opens up avenues within the treaty and makes proposals for the future. within the treaty, we insist - and parliament really insists very strongly - that the 'bridge clause' be implemented and used to get out of the logic of unanimity which blocks decisions. we also want an end to opt-outs. the primary law must be the same for everyone and if new entrants want to come, they must either accept the whole of primary law or go through a logic of partnership agreements. it is very important to ensure that primary law is the same for all countries, that there are no different levels of countries with regard to primary law. this is something very important to us. we also want the european union to be able to put this foundation of values and fundamental rights in place very clearly and that we do not have the capacity, in a differentiated europe, to back down on these fundamental rights. apart from that, i'll finish on the evolutions we can have. we really want to establish within the european union a pillar of social, environmental and economic rights, which would ensure that the european union has a real foundation and can move forward on these terms. that is the general direction we want. mr president, i insist that we must ensure that europe moves forward with one voice and that we do not have a europe with different speeds and different classes, but that those who want to move forward can do so.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, in our thursday morning sessions, in good conscience, you mentioned the case of the journalist mehman huseynov. he has just been sentenced to two years in prison for denouncing the authoritarian regime of president aliyev. yes, this regime is autocratic, but what has the european union done in relation to this regime? i would recall that on 16 november 2016 the council gave the commission a mandate to negotiate a comprehensive agreement with azerbaijan. on 7 february 2017, negotiations began following president aliyev's visit to brussels. on 11 january 2018, new partnership priorities were adopted, including the provision for visa facilitation. we know that the leaders of the european union have only one obsession: to drag the nations and peoples of europe into a new cold war with russia. in doing so, as always, the small sponsors of the politics of the globalist elites aim to fragment the european continent. to do this, they do not hesitate to establish, as i have just mentioned, ever closer relations with the baku regime. we know that a gas pipeline is currently being built between azerbaijan and the european union member states, while our security of hydrocarbon supplies should be achieved through agreements with russia. for the european union, which is a lecturer, the smell of oil trumps the right of the individual. i would like to know what our colleague, norica nicolai, rapporteur for the european parliament's report on this new european agreement with azerbaijan, thinks about this matter. if i believe the french daily libération, she refused to comment on another previous case of human rights violations in azerbaijan, that of yunis safarov, referring to an article by the azerbaijani press agency, which is nothing more than an unofficial organ of the regime. what do the members of the alde group think, especially those who are always ready to give us lessons in democracy? we must not forget the martyrdom of the armenian people of nagorno-karabakh caused by the baku regime. for us, the true partner and friend of the european peoples in the caucasus is the armenian people. so let's go beyond and beyond the stage of good conscience and end this association with this diet.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to join all my colleagues in calling for a tough action against azerbaijan in the case of the imprisoned mr huseynov. but as a former minister of justice, i also want to add that azerbaijan needs to be criticized in a broader context. and to the lack of rule of law in this country, i want to add that in 2017, legal reforms were carried out in azerbaijan, which prevented nine out of ten lawyers from practicing law. moreover, azerbaijan has no independent legal services, which is extremely important, and political prisoners have no legal representation in courts. and we should be aware of that, because the rule of law is not just about independent courts, but also about independent state-based lawyers who are defending clients against the state. and unfortunately, that's not the case in this country, so please, in the debate with azerbaijani officials, let's also criticize the 2017 reform that is destroying independent advocacy.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this possibility to discuss again the human rights situation in azerbaijan. we have been following very closely, like you all have, this situation and the recent developments in the case of mehman huseynov. this came to our attention already in 2017. we made a statement then, and let me use this opportunity to tell you what we have been doing in recent days. following the demarche by the delegation of the european union in baku, and thanks to cooperation by the azerbaijan authorities, the eu delegation, together with five member states missions, visited mr huseynov in prison. the visit at the end of last week allowed us to establish that his life was not at immediate risk. he is receiving medical care and he has stopped his hunger strike. nevertheless, we do believe, like you, that the new charges against him for allegedly assaulting prison staff lack credibility and should be dropped. we are aware, as some of you raised, of other hunger strikes by activists. we are following up here with contacts with a lawyer and the prison services and i know that they had been visited by the red cross. over the past years the eu has placed considerable emphasis on the human rights situation in azerbaijan. we do so in our political dialogue with the country, including high—level meetings at the eu azerbaijan subcommittee on justice affairs and human rights. the joint partnership priorities, as agreed in july last year, underscore that the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms are key in our relationship. the new eu—azerbaijan agreement currently being negotiated will have democratic reforms, the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms at its core. we remain all too aware of the considerable challenges relating to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in azerbaijan. we believe that we should work on addressing them through dialogue, including through the negotiations on the new agreement. we need to have channels of communication to build mutual trust and engagement to effectively pursue our values and interests in azerbaijan. while pursuing our engagement with the authorities, we are continuing to work closely with civil society organisations, independent media and human rights defenders to follow up on their concerns. we will continue to raise the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in all our dialogues and most notably during the upcoming meeting on justice affairs and human rights in baku on 5 february. we will closely follow the developments in the case of mehman huseynov and other human rights defenders and journalists, including, for instance, khadija i̇smayilova, and will continue, of course, a close dialogue with all of you on this issues.
author. mr president, we have already adopted a number of resolutions on sudan. the latest, in march 2018, concerned the arrest of salih mahmoud osman, our 2007 sakharov prize winner, who was arrested again, apparently by the niss, the sad sudanese security service. his family fears for his health, especially because he has diabetes. one of many, unfortunately, once again. human rights organizations say that at least 2,000 people have been arrested since 19 december, and that dozens have died, not to mention torture. since september 2013, protests have been taking place on a regular basis, mainly in khartoum. until now, they have been based on the economic crisis, following the loss of oil resources after the partition of sudan, with record inflation - indeed, we are talking about a rate of over 120%, the second highest in the world - and, as a result, a constant increase in the prices of basic necessities in a country in a shortage situation. not to mention a budget devoted to military expenditure at the expense of the rest, especially health and education. in december, after the price of bread tripled, the first protests started outside the capital and spread like wildfire across the country, including darfur, where the ex-jawid and the repression that accompanies it still reign supreme. the slogans soon became political. "freedom, peace and justice" is what the protesters are demanding, as well as the end of the regime. omar al-bashir is not a provocation and actually wants to change the constitution to stand for re-election, after 29 years in power, under multiple mandates from the international criminal court. the repression is striking all sides: human rights defenders, academics, students, journalists, opposition leaders, including those from the congress people's party and the sudanese communist party, which dared to lend its premises for a meeting of all the stakeholders of the protests. the sudanese business association has just called for a week of uprisings, culminating today in khartoum and the major cities: a great march for peace and change. we have denounced here on many occasions the agreements linking the european union and sudan via migration policies or the fight against terrorism. how can we cooperate with the repressive authorities in that country, including asking them to come here and identify their own nationals in detention centres, or to deliver to them equipment which can be used against the sudanese population, including in darfur. all european funding must be reviewed to stop this hypocrisy. finally, on behalf of the gue/ngl, i would like to express my full solidarity with those who are going to demonstrate in the streets of sudan today, risking their lives.
on behalf of the enf group. mr. speaker, an article published in 2012 in la règle du jeu, the journal of the well-known french pseudo-philosopher bernard-henri lévy, shamelessly claimed that the ideas of the national front were those applied to sudan. let me be a little provocative and compare the news. according to media reports, the sudanese authorities have arrested 800 people in connection with the recent anti-government protests. this is less than the 5,000 yellow vests placed in police custody in france since the start of the protest against president macron's arrogance. the death toll in sudan is estimated at between 20 and 40. in france, the media reported that about 100 people were seriously injured among the protesters. minister castaner's repression is also effective. while sudan enforces sharia law and persecutes christians, islamists are gaining ground in europe. so i sometimes wonder, colleagues, about moral lessons. it is time for parliament to look at what is happening right under its nose before it looks at human rights in other continents.
madam president, we have just celebrated 20 years of the euro area, and it is good to take a critical look at the policies mentioned in the latest 2017 report of the european central bank. while it is clear that quantitative easing has been instrumental in maintaining the integrity of the euro area and in providing a bowl of fresh air for the hard-pressed countries of southern europe, the truth is that the policies are still not sufficient. worse still, far from calling for expansionist policies, made up of investments that would allow the countries of the euro zone to converge, the report we are presented with finally takes up the classic doxa on the structural reforms that should be carried out, and which we know are devastating european countries and entire territories. i could have voted for this report if it had put forward solutions to the phenomenon of euro divergence, if it had spoken of investment, of a transfer union, of the ecb taking government debt out of the market. it is not, and that is a pity, because i believe that europe deserves better than that.
madam president, ten years after the financial crisis that devastated the world economy, the banking union is still not complete. systemically sized banks have still not been dismantled and continue to threaten our societies with their chronic instability. we know that in the event of a new crisis, governments would be forced to go out of their way to socialise financial losses, as was already the case in 2008. as a result, promises about the responses to the 2008 crisis have been broken, and this latest state of the banking union report is not particularly reassuring. in a way, it pays off the failure of a decade of neoliberal economic policies. i think we need real answers to this situation. we have to separate deposit banks from investment banks. of course, we must break with fiscal austerity. of course, more regulation is needed for shadow banking, which has become a source of destabilisation of the global economy. frankly, we are not up to the challenge and if we are not, the crisis is ahead of us, and it is coming fast.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of our debate is to combat the climate of hatred and physical violence against democratically elected office holders. i am well aware of this, since the elected representatives of my party, the national rally, and even more so our candidates and activists, have for a long time been subject to the constant lynching of the mainstream media, but also to physical and moral harassment by the far-left militias. this is true in france but also in almost all the countries of western europe. so-called experts are coming to the aid of increasingly contested governments and spewing hatred at all those whom they scornfully label 'populists' in order to prevent any democratic debate. this is particularly the case today in germany. i did not hear very loud protests when our colleague beatrix von storch had her car burned in october 2015. and we are still awaiting strong condemnations of the attack, as violent as it was cowardly, on bundestag member frank magnitz. on the evening of 7 january last in bremen, mr magnitz was beaten and left for dead by a group of left-wing activists. instead of finally going after the far-left militias, the german government found nothing better than to put all elected officials of the afd under the surveillance of the intelligence services. in this house, however, there are still members who openly claim to be communist ideologues, even though millions of people have died.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, common values such as human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and human rights are the cornerstone of the european union. both institutions and member states must therefore respect, protect and promote them. the romanian presidency, and indeed all of us, agree that the protection of the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights is essential in our union. on 18 september 2018 the council received the european parliament’s reasoned proposal under article 7(1) calling on the council to determine that there is a serious risk of a breach by hungary of the values on which the union is founded. this issue has been on the agenda of the general affairs council in october, november and december 2018. at the 12 november general affairs council, we received hungary’s written response to parliament’s reasoned proposal, as well as a factual contribution from the commission on pending infringement procedures against hungary. in december, ministers had a first exchange of views on the next steps of the procedure. we will continue the examination of parliament’s reasoned proposal. at this stage, i cannot prejudge or draw conclusions as regards the final outcome of this procedure. we will keep parliament informed on the next developments. indeed, we take seriously into account the concerns expressed by the honourable members of this house. let me conclude by saying that the issues raised in this debate go to the heart of our commitment to this union. we therefore trust that all sides will act responsibly and constructively to reach an outcome in accordance with our core values.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank parliament very much for putting the situation of hungary on the agenda today. the last time we discussed the situation of the rule of law in hungary was on 11 september last year. the next day, parliament adopted its resolution triggering article 7(1) of the treaty procedure against hungary. as i explained then, the commission shares an important number of concerns expressed in the reasoned proposal of the european parliament, in particular, as regards fundamental rights, corruption, the treatment of roma and the independence of the judiciary. today, i would like to update you on the developments which have occurred since last september, including the developments in the council. first, as i already said in september, unlike the european parliament, the commission has a right under the treaties to launch infringement proceedings and, in the case of hungary, has launched many value-related infringement proceedings. the commission is determined to make the best use of this power. last week, the commission decided to send a reasoned opinion to hungary concerning the so-called ‘stop soros’ legislation. this legislation criminalises activities that support asylum and residence applications and further restricts the right to request asylum. the hungarian authorities now have two months to address the commission’s concerns; otherwise, the commission may refer the case to the court of justice. furthermore, last december, the hungarian parliament adopted a new law on overtime, amending the labour code. as you know, this new law has provoked large street demonstrations in hungary in recent weeks. the commission is currently analysing the conformity of the new law with eu law, notably, the working time directive, and sent a letter to the hungarian authorities seeking further clarifications. in the light of the response received, the commission will decide on potential next steps. also in december, we heard that the central european university has now been forced to relocate its us-accredited academic programmes from hungary to vienna. having a university forced to leave an eu member state because of governmental measures and systematic pressure is unprecedented in the history of the european union. it is sad and very worrying that this can happen in the eu, despite the commission’s pending infringement procedure and clear warnings from many, many stakeholders. another development in december relates to the merger of more than 400 media outlets into one single holding controlled by a board whose members are affiliated with the governing party. the situation has been aggravated by the subsequent government decision to exempt this merger from the scrutiny of both the national competition authority and the media authority. the commission is also, through the european semester, monitoring the functioning of the hungarian justice system, including the regime for the appointment and promotion of judges, the organisation of the prosecution service, and the envisaged setting-up of a new administrative court system. in december last year, the hungarian parliament adopted two laws establishing an administrative court system envisaged to become operational as from 2020. it is regrettable that the hungarian parliament did not wait for the opinion of the venice commission, which is scheduled for march this year. the commission is currently assessing the new laws in view of their compatibility with eu law and european standards. the opinion of the venice commission will feed this assessment. in addition to infringement proceedings, the commission is using other instruments, including audits and investigations relating to the use of eu funds and actions through the european semester, the eu annual cycle of economic policy coordination. the commission is also monitoring and assessing the implementation of the country-specific recommendations relating to the need to reinforce the anti-corruption framework, to strengthen prosecutorial efforts and improve transparency and competition in public procurement. as regards the ongoing article 7 procedure, i regret that, so far, the european parliament has not been given a genuine opportunity to present its reasoned proposal to the council. the commission has made very clear that, whatever position the council will be taking, it must ensure a fair handling of the reasoned proposal tabled by parliament. this, i think, is part of the way european institutions should show respect for each other and each other’s role. let me inform you that in november, following a request made by the austrian presidency, the commission presented to the council a factual overview on its actions as regards hungary, in particular, the values-related infringement proceedings. these relate, in particular, to asylum and assistance to asylum seekers, civil society and higher education school segregation of roma. most of these cases are already pending before the court of justice. as you know, the hungarian government already provided their reply to the reasoned proposal. i do believe the council now has all the key elements necessary to start with its own assessment of the issues raised.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, hungary is a beautiful country, a crossroads of cultures, of which budapest is a symbol. no one here is trying to attack the hungarian people. but today, viktor orbán wants to be the champion of a new nationalist, anti-migrant european model. this is the opposite of the history of this beautiful country and of our entire continent. since september, the illicit drift has worsened. media and administrative courts charged with judging public affairs are under control. at the same time, corruption is on the rise and hungary refuses to join the european public prosecutor's office. an authoritarian neoliberalism is being established to the benefit of mr orbán and some of his friends. few neoliberals would have dared to pass a law like the one on labor, called the slavery act. hungarian excesses are now unlimited and propaganda is rampant to cover them up. mr timmermans, these diversions started in 2010 and you tell us that you are following the developments. you lean on the right and i say to my hungarian colleagues there is no war. the issue of migrants is just a derivative. to be european is first and foremost to respect the values of the european union. yes, hungary is trying to buy time behind legal and procedural arguments, and the council's response is distressing.
in writing. haro on hungary ! this has been the commission's watchword since viktor orbán made it clear that he rejects the mass immigration imposed by brussels. but don't be displeased, its popularity is rising, ranging from 53% to 63% in december 2018. it is not about any polling artifice, but about viktor orbán's ability to address a fundamental concern: immigration, which 52% of hungarians consider to be one of the greatest european civilizational challenges. in this they are supported by a majority of public opinion which, from washington to rome and on to brasília, places the european union ever more in opposition to the trend of history. in addition, by stigmatising a legitimate concern, brussels risks permanently alienating so many eastern european citizens, who are quick to turn to brighter horizons. the rapprochement of hungary with both the united states and russia is no different. all autocratic regimes come to an end, and the break between an intransigent european union and a freedom-loving eastern europe seems now to be complete.
in writing. the historic vote of this parliament against the hungarian government should have sounded the alarm, but it was a wishful thinking. in recent months, the commission's complaint against laws criminalising aid to migrants has gone unheard, the central european university has had to leave budapest and the hungarian government has launched a crusade against gender studies, an academic field essential to understanding the social relations between men and women. how can we cope with such a situation? because we owe it to the hungarian citizens who are the first victims. viktor orban may have been deceived into thinking that he was protecting his people, even if he was breaking the rules, but that did not last. thousands of hungarians are demonstrating against a labour law that legalises the exploitation of employees and more broadly against orban's entire policy. i'm sending them all my support. the european union is a political union, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people.
on behalf of the enf group. mr. president, i don't like mr. maduro and i fight these regimes, but either you are for the rule of law or you are for the coup, you have to choose. one thing is certain, the move by the president of the national assembly, juan guaidó, is illegal. article 233 of the venezuelan constitution provides for five cases that constitute impediments to the exercise of the presidential office: death, resignation, physical incapacity, removal from office and abandonment of office. none of these conditions has been met. secondly, the president can only be removed by referendum, not by the national assembly. the guarantor of the constitution is the supreme court of justice, before which mr maduro has just taken the oath. he's constitutionally the president. in addition, in the event of a vacancy, the president of the national assembly is not replaced by the vice-president, but by the vice-president. juan guaidó was not a candidate in the presidential elections of may 2018. he's a stranger in the political world. in the name of what mythical political support and what rule of law would he now be the legitimate president? what's the matter? in this confusion, there is only one legitimate option: elections. i would like to ask you to take this opportunity to express your views on the report.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, you have an incredible ability to tell us a fairy tale tonight. after months of discussions on the resumption of these negotiations, we are finally able to say that this is a free trade agreement we are concluding with the united states. but above all, for months, the european leaders, the european parliament, you yourself have said, and fortunately you have, that there is no negotiating with a gun to your head. where did you see donald trump pull his finger off the trigger? he's still threatening us on the steel and the car. it continues to threaten the international multilateral order. and then you tell us: we were the good students of the july declaration. that's good. we import a lot more oil and shale gas. that's good. in six months we have doubled our imports of american gm soybeans because we are very good students. then, as with canada, and this is where you, the european commission, pull out your magic wand, you get to transform the fuel quality directive. with canada, it was on oil sands fuels, here it's on soybeans. you can kill european climate regulations. so, frankly, negotiating with trump, negotiating under these conditions, negotiating against the climate, against our food sovereignty, is nonsense, it has to stop!
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, mrs malmström, ladies and gentlemen, either you are not telling us what you know, or you are not telling us what you know. because you tell us that agricultural products will be excluded from the negotiations and you fail to tell us that sea products will actually be included in these negotiations. the special relations between the united states and canada and mexico will open wide the doors to american products on the european market, with the cocktail effect we fear for our economies. and personally, i think we can also ask ourselves what will prevent mr juncker from negotiating, alone and without a mandate, the import of tons of gmo soybeans and shale gas, as he did last summer. mrs malström, we will not compromise on anything, not on health, not on safety, not on food sovereignty.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, if the introduction of a .eu domain name is based on good intentions: adaptation to the market, flexibility, the fight against speculation, fraud and abuse, it is above all ideological and you are not hiding it. you want to reinforce the idea of an eu identity in the minds of internet users, thus to the detriment of national identities. it will also be about promoting the values of the european union, the eu: multilingualism, respect for security and privacy, but above all your vision of human rights. human rights have become the rights of minorities of all kinds. institutions, companies and citizens who do not meet your criteria would be penalized and their websites would be taken down. additional safeguards have even been put in place to protect the rule of law. countries whose policies are contrary to your vision of the rule of law would therefore be sanctioned. i am thinking of our friends in hungary, poland and italy, whose migration policy is regularly criticised in this house. as defenders of freedoms, including freedom of expression, which is not negotiable, we cannot support such a project.
madam president, at first reading, this report contains remarks which might in part be of some relevance, particularly in the field of agriculture. it is true that our struggle is now the subject of more attention in the field of industrial concentration of companies operating in the agricultural inputs sector, but, overall, this relationship is part of the endless globalist logic intended from the beginning by the european union. we cannot, for our part, give the commission the slightest immunity in this area, as in so many others. the commission's policy on mergers, agreements and competition rules is highly questionable. the report finds that the situation is very deteriorated and worrying, and that the commission's policy is no stranger to this. we cannot accept the logic of this.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i will speak to you here, as chairman of the committee on harassment, about the appropriate code of conduct that you, mr corbett, have inserted in your report. since 2014, i have been working in this parliament on the goal of "zero harassment". i am bound by confidentiality and, rest assured, i will not break the secret tonight, but i know by heart all the complaints that i had to investigate since 2014, the entire process of investigating these complaints, which i had to put in place. i would like to say to you here: we do not take refuge behind the freedom of the warrant because harassment is a crime. it's a crime for all of us to do that, and you're in danger of being brought to justice and you're in danger of being punished. so, we don't hide behind the secrecy when it comes to harassment. that is why the law, which is the same for everyone, must allow us to have an open, incisive, serious policy of fighting harassment, and that it must and we must, here in this parliament, refuse that a person who rejects the code of conduct can get representation in parliament, important posts. it is our honour, your honour and the honour of parliament that is at stake. we owe it to all our fellow citizens: i call on you to vote for amendments nos 13 and 68.
we are pleased to welcome to the diplomatic forum a delegation from the parliament mazhilis of kazakhstan, chaired by mr mukhtar erman. the delegation is here in brussels to participate in the 16th ep-kazakhstan parliamentary cooperation committee. we are very pleased to host this important meeting which will strengthen our dialogue and cooperation. it is an honour to have you here today at the heart of european democracy, and your presence is a sign of our common commitment to promoting human rights and political pluralism through the rule of law. on behalf of the whole of the european parliament, i wish you a fruitful meeting and a pleasant stay in europe.
the agenda calls for votes.
this closes the voting period.
madam president, for the last 30 years i have witnessed the constant erosion of minority rights in this parliament which is becoming more and more corporatist and politically correct, in this institution which speaks only of minority rights, respect for the rule of law, the guarantee of freedoms and which does very little for internal use. the corbett report lacks nothing: a complete infantilization of the members of parliament, a blaming of the white male, which is entirely in line with the gender theory; we will now have to go through training courses to learn that sexual harassment is very wrong and sign statements to that effect; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the member states are able to meet their interlocutors without this being immediately made public in the name of transparency. i want to scream: transparency, how many crimes are committed in your name. this assembly becomes a primary school, and i'll be glad to leave.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
mr president, just one point of clarification. since this is journalism, it is important to be precise, accurate and in line with reality: it was not the police who attacked the journalists, colleagues, it was protesters, whose side it is not clear from which side they came, or violent peripheral elements, with the protesters, who attacked journalists. and i thank you, when you speak on these subjects, for reading the press carefully, which is quite accurate.
mr president, the reason why i am against this proposal is not so much the substance of the proposal itself. i believe that there is a danger of technological penetration into europe by china. but i think this proposal is somewhat discriminatory. our parliament has never taken the same view of the systematic mass spying carried out, for example, by the united states of america. i'd like to remind you of the echelon case. i would remind you that the private conversations of the german chancellor, mrs merkel, were being spied on, as were those of the president of the french republic. and since then, we have had absolutely no assurance that these practices had stopped, quite the contrary. it seems that the alleged universality of us sanctions law, the manipulation, intimidation and even the imprisonment of european business leaders continue, and that they have been, as for example in the case of the french company alstom, a powerful means of blackmail. i shall therefore be in favour of this proposal when we take similar action against the risks of anglo-saxon or american espionage.
mr president, the common fisheries policy, as revised in 2013, introduced a new method of fisheries management, namely regionalisation. regionalization is the cornerstone of the common fisheries policy. it allows for the planned management of fisheries in accordance with the specificities of the various union basins. measures that work in the baltic sea will not have the same effect in the mediterranean and vice versa. these geographical features must therefore be taken into account. for this reason, we are gradually introducing multiannual management plans for each basin. two management plans have already been adopted, one for the baltic sea and the other for the north sea. the plan for western waters is therefore the third plan agreed by the co-legislators. the plan covers 34 stocks exploited by at least seven eu member states, operating in waters from the west of scotland to the waters around madeira and the azores, via the english channel, the celtic sea and the bay of biscay. the range of distribution is therefore considerable. we can now count among these stocks, thanks to the majority vote in parliament last october, the bar. the cod is a very popular species among professional fishermen, but also among recreational fishermen. it is also a species whose stock is declining. emergency measures are put in place each year to ensure that the resource regenerates. these annual measures did not provide the necessary visibility for both professional and recreational fishermen, and it was time to address this. including this species in a management plan is therefore a key step towards the sustainable management of this stock. for this reason, i welcome both the vote by parliament and the agreement with the council. i am also very pleased that the artificial delimitation of the 48th parallel for the cod fishery has been removed. this limit was simply absurd, both for professional and recreational fishermen. we cannot continue to impose different management measures north and south of this parallel, this does not take into account the realities on the ground. other species are also covered by this plan, fortunately, the daurade, the cod, the sole or the yellow spot. for all these stocks we will now have sustainable and planned management, offering greater predictability to the fisheries sector. the tacs and quotas negotiated each year by the council for western waters are now regulated to avoid drastic cuts in quotas. the plan is also of particular importance in the context of brexit. british waters, such as the english channel, are directly affected by this plan. the adoption of this plan before the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union will therefore make it part of the acquis communautaire during the transition period and lay the foundations for future cooperation with the united kingdom in the fisheries sector. i am now, of course, awaiting the comments of my colleagues in the house, as well as those of the council and the commission, and i thank them in advance for their contributions.
this is the reporter. mr president, i would first like to thank my colleagues for their contribution to this debate. i would also like to thank the council and the commission, mr karmenu, for the work we have done together. as regards the intervention of our ukip colleague, who has indeed left the house, i would say that what is excessive is insignificant. in any case, to return to our subject, we must achieve sustainable fisheries management as soon as possible. i am confident that the management plans will enable us to achieve our sustainability and selectivity objectives in the most appropriate way. you said it, commissioner, and i repeat it: maximum sustainable yield must be achieved for all stocks by 2020. this is where management plans will obviously be useful. however, we have taken time, far too long, to put them in place and now the target of maximum sustainable yield by 2020 seems difficult to achieve, i must say. we must also sometimes go beyond political dogma to respond to the realities on the ground, and i am thinking of course of our green colleagues, for example. the same applies to the landing obligation, which, as we had expected, is almost impossible to implement for multispecies fleets. that said, the multiannual management plan for western waters is the result of a delicate balance, always the same, between the protection of the resource, which is essential, and the economic competitiveness of the fisheries sector, which we want. however, we can be proud of the work we have done collectively, and i think that is something interesting. now let's move on to the mediterranean.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, we have had the opportunity to point out on several occasions that the lisbon treaty is a toolbox that is rather largely underused and that among the possible procedures and those that are not sufficiently used are enhanced cooperation. we know that enhanced cooperation is a formula which allows countries which want to move forward, whereas others would be more reluctant, to act, to move forward without waiting for the others, in the framework of simplified procedures, in areas which are important for them and for europe and which fall within the competence shared between the union and the member states. however, it turns out that many of the major challenges facing the union today will be difficult to deal with with the paralysing unanimity procedure. i am talking about internal and external security, migration policy, a number of social programmes, a number of research programmes and a common foreign policy. it is therefore important to facilitate and encourage the use of this procedure. this is the subject of the report adopted by the committee on constitutional affairs. and we start with the acquis of the already existing enhanced cooperation, which is of interest because it applies to completely different areas: the settlement of divorce or family property disputes, the introduction of a single european patent, the introduction of a european public prosecutor, the difficult financial transaction tax projects, the launch of a european defence, not to mention the organisation of the euro area, which is also a form of enhanced cooperation. the commission's report draws on the lessons of these early experiments and proposes what could be a kind of model statute for enhanced cooperation to make it easier and save time for member states who, in new areas, would like to use it. and we list the political questions to ask: what is the decision-making process going to be? of course, we recommend what the treaty makes possible, namely the systematic use of qualified majority voting and not the unanimous decision. what secretary? we want the european commission to play an important role in the secretariat. how will administrative and, if possible, operational expenditure be financed if joint actions are envisaged? what democratic control? the european parliament has an important role to play, but in some areas it would be unthinkable if there were not also a representation of the national parliaments to ensure parliamentary control. and what judicial review? of course, while the court of justice will always have the final say, it may be useful in certain cases to set up a court of first instance. our committee recommends that the spirit of the treaties be respected, which allows for joint action, flexibility in decision-making and staying within the community framework. because under enhanced cooperation, the member states which participate in it do so within the community framework, while the other non-participating member states can take part in the debate, give their opinion and - naturally - do not take part in the vote. but by being associated from the outset, they can better appreciate the value of the formula and it is to be hoped that, little by little, this cooperation will extend to all the member states of the european union. the issue is very important because if we want to tackle the major challenges i mentioned earlier, there are only two solutions: either enhanced cooperation within the framework of the union, or interstate, intergovernmental agreements which will make problems more difficult, procedures more obscure and democratic control less well assured.
for the greens/efa group mr vice-president, would you allow me, first of all, just a very brief moment of what i was going to call a little more intimacy? i would like to turn to mr lamassoure because this is his last report which is being presented today and i would like to pay tribute to him, on behalf of the members of parliament and in particular the french members of parliament, even if nationality has nothing to do with this area. he has done this parliament a great honour and has been particularly careful to try to exchange views, across the groups and across our different histories. thank you, mr lamassoure, thank you for this report. i was going to say that it was just a bit of sentiment - and i will go very quickly - but in the end these two reports, that of mercedes bresso and that of alain lamassoure, show a very simple thing: the european parliament wants first of all to get closer to the commission, it wants to work more closely with the commission, but it wants a europe that is more democratic, more transparent, more efficient, more social, more respectful of the law. that is our common responsibility. mr timmermans, i know you feel the same way, we must get there, the future of our union is at stake.
mr president, mr vice-president, clearly, to have a global vision, the implementation of the lisbon treaty requires a lot of expertise. and in this expertise - as you are, i believe, a candidate for the presidency of the commission - i would invite you to look closely at some of the elements we have put in mrs mercedes bresso's report on the role of the secretary-general, as the ombudsman prepares to confirm her view that this appointment procedure should be revised. there are - i think - gaps that need to be addressed and i have no doubt that this is one of the issues you will have to address in your campaign. i would also like to say a word about mrs spinelli's report, which proposes, in amendment no 17, to reopen the scope of the charter. this is the famous article 51 of the charter, which was introduced at the request of the british who did not want the rights defined in this way to apply directly to our fellow citizens. i believe that after brexit, if it happens, we will have to look at this issue, even though i am aware that it goes beyond implementation and requires change.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would first like to thank pascal durand, ramón jáuregui atondo and you, mr vice-president, for your very kind words to me and also thank all those who are watching us on the internet for their applause. i would like to add a very important point - and i think you will agree with this analysis too, mr vice-president - that one of the reasons why enhanced cooperation has not worked sufficiently well is that none of the three institutions has really organised itself to carry it out, to take it seriously and to make it their own. in the end, when the commission and parliament say that there is enhanced cooperation, they understand that it is in the interest of certain states and that it is therefore not really community. and as governments themselves change, on the council side, what is a priority for some governments at one time is no longer a priority when there have been electoral changes in the countries that were initiators. and that is why we recommend in our report that each institution, and in particular the european commission, organise itself: will it need a special commissioner? this question could be decided by a future president of the commission. should an ad hoc committee be set up in our parliament? we recommend instead, whenever there is enhanced cooperation, that a subcommittee be set up within the standing committee and that an attempt be made to resolve this question, which we have never resolved in the european parliament because there has been no majority so far. i hope that things will change with the next parliament. it is necessary to ensure that when the vote is taken, those elected by the citizens to whom the decisions will apply are, of course, the voters, and that those not elected by the states in which enhanced cooperation will not apply participate at that time, in the spirit of the treaty, in the deliberations and discussions, but not in the vote.
in writing. what we are discussing here is the heart of europe: the implementation of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. this charter was a turning point in our history. with it we are much more than an economic community, we are first and foremost a union based on the rule of law and human rights. however, behind the beautiful statements, i regret that this historic text is undervalued and under-exploited, to the detriment of european citizens who lose an opportunity to benefit from a treaty that protects them, for example, from any discrimination based on sex, origin or religion. the text is under-exploited by the states in particular because of the difficulty of applying it, since the scope of application in national law is vague and ill-defined. our parliamentary report contains many solutions in this area: to produce guidelines on how fundamental rights should be taken into account by states or to revise the scope of the charter. the political situation in europe is very bleak in terms of fundamental rights, but the best response is to continue to affirm our values and strengthen our institutions.
mr president, first of all, as a member of the committee on petitions, i would like to welcome the work of our rapporteur, margrete auken, who shows the very strong link between our committee on petitions and the ombudsman, and then, of course, i would like to welcome the work of the committee on constitutional affairs, represented by our colleague enrique guerrero. our group, but it is not the only one - you have heard it - has tabled important amendments to strengthen the role of the european ombudsman. the ombudsman is, through the mandate of parliament, the citizen's front-line post for the control of the european institutions. to this end, we want - as has been said - that access to documents be strengthened and that any refusal be justified, if necessary, before the court. we also want to fight against conflicts of interest: the ombudsman is there to ensure good administration and we want to strengthen her powers in these matters as well as the protection of whistleblowers, to ensure that the ombudsman can inform citizens, but also coordinate the different national entities responsible for the protection of whistleblowers. we have taken as a compass, somewhere, the case of the selmayrgate. in this case, the ombudsman played her role and so far no conclusions have been drawn. we want to prevent this from happening again and the strengthening of the ombudsman's rights is a guarantee of the proper functioning of our european democracy.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, just to say that, in our view, the ombudsman remains an extremely important instrument for addressing maladministration, so that we correct mistakes and avoid maladministration in the future. improving the way the ombudsman works is in all the institutions’ interests. so, in that sense, the commission welcomes the report and, as you know, we will give a full reaction to it later, in conformity with treaty rules. i want to add one remark about whistle—blowers because this subject was mentioned by several members. we are making good progress on really increasing the possibility of protection for whistle—blowers in the future and i want to thank parliament for working closely with the commission. let’s hope we can convince the council to come to a conclusion soon. i have to say this is beyond what i had initially expected, so i do want to express my gratitude to parliament for working closely with the commission on this.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 12 february 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for a debate on the commission statement on the right to peaceful protest and the proportionate use of force (2019/2569 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, marches, demonstrations and other forms of public gathering are an important expression of democracy, which must be safeguarded. indeed, freedom of peaceful assembly and freedom of association are enshrined in article 12 of the charter of fundamental rights and are among the essential foundations of democratic societies. they are essential to the common constitutional traditions of member states and thus of the european union as a whole. at the same time, in a democratic society these freedoms must be exercised whilst also respecting other freedoms and rights, and therefore may be subject to certain limitations if that is justified by objectives in the public interest, such as the maintenance of law and order. it is also important to remember that, as explicitly specified in the charter, the fundamental freedom enshrined in article 12 refers to peaceful assembly. on that basis, and within its competence, the commission closely follows any relevant developments that could affect this right, and it stands fully ready to take action if needed. in accordance with the treaties, the commission can intervene only when an issue of european union law is involved.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i wanted to tell you the story of jupiter returning to earth. emmanuel macron was elected on a promise: to be a bulwark against extremism and the champion of the "new world". to do this, he created a parliamentary majority of incompetents and relied on a government of inexperienced ambitious people and a few good spoils of war. two years later, with three ministers of state less, the president had thrown everything out of his way: intermediary bodies, trade unions, local authorities and his own friends. in his arrogance, jupiter continued his ascent and, to his great detriment, began his apprenticeship when men in yellow came to remind him of the truth of the earth by occupying all the roundabouts. these slumlords, these filthy people, these people who were nothing to him, made the republic shake. from his castle, king emmanuel decided, under the pressure of their anger, to release ten billion euros of measures in favour of purchasing power, at christmas eve, to the detriment of the european budgetary orthodoxy of which he is the guarantor. finally, the president of the republic stepped into the debate arena in six-hour episodes, still televised, to confront the consequences of his policy. sun tzu invented the art of war; macron invented the round-point. despite his best efforts, demonstration after demonstration, radicalism took over. who was responsible: the yellow vests or the crackers, the yellow vests or the anarchists, the yellow vests or the police? as we were barely wiping away the tears shed for the victims of terrorism, charlie hebdo and the bataclan, i was surprised to discover that a trophy had been created for the infamous boxer who had knocked a policeman to the ground. so i created my own in response, for the benefit of the 1,200 law enforcement officers injured in the protests. the result was a resounding victory: €130,000 for the boxer versus €1.5 million for the police, with more than 51,000 donors. moral of the story: the silent and indignant majority woke up, crushing the boxer's purse with his participatory generosity. respect for authority, respect for the republic, respect for the law: jupiter has finally returned to earth and the brave people are getting the respect they deserve, and the social justice that goes with it.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, first of all we are pleased to have secured this debate on behalf of the gue/ngl, and we regret that mr timmermans has left us. we have nothing against you, mr vella, but you are not in charge of these matters and it is a pity that mr timmermans, who was here just before, has left. yes, freedom of expression and association are fundamental freedoms and yes, the right to protest is one of the main declinations. the obstacles and repression cannot be general and absolute, they must respect the principles of finality, necessity and proportionality. we can only be amazed by what has happened since 17 november with the "yellow vests". tens of thousands of people are marching across france; most of the protesters are peaceful, but the toll in terms of violence is heavy: thousands of grenades and rubber bullets, 2228 lbd (defense bullet launchers) fired since november, 3 200 injured 125 by the lbd alone , several dozen seriously injured, about twenty people disoriented, five hands torn off and even one death. so yes, we must reject violence, all violence, but we must ban these weapons which are maiming and even deadly.
for the greens/efa group madam president, for weeks now, we have been witnessing violence every week. the violence of the 'yellow vests' has been condemned, but nothing in this violence justifies the use of weapons which are sometimes lethal, and the toll is terrible: 188 wounded in the head, 20 blinded, 5 hands torn off, all because of these defensive ball throwers and grenades. only in france, poland and greece is there unlimited use of these instruments which again, according to medical teams, cause war injuries. so we are naturally calling for a complete ban on them at european level. we can imagine that if frans timmermans were here, and if in poland or hungary freedom of demonstration were to be banned or restricted and if there were as many injured, the commission would move and ask a very firm question to poland or hungary. we therefore ask the commission to ensure that these weapons are banned. the right to protest, the proportionate use of force, that's what makes a democracy. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
(greens/efa) and the commission. the limitation of the right to demonstrate that i mentioned is a law that has just been passed in france where the prefect, therefore the executive, can prohibit certain protesters from demonstrating, whereas, until now, this was obviously within the jurisdiction of the judiciary. in a democracy, the executive and the judiciary are obviously separate, otherwise it is no longer a democracy. so, effectively, we prevent the demonstration. and those who demonstrate, or sometimes just those who witness a demonstration, can lose an eye or lose a hand. it's unthinkable to be disabled for life because you participated in a protest.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, i am taking up this gesture in support of the countless mutilated members of the "yellow vest" movement in france, who are themselves using it with all those who have lost an eye in the protests. their names are jérôme rodrigues, gwendal, ninef, arthur, vanessa, jean-marc, antoine, fiorina, alexandre, jean-philippe, ramy, franck, anthony, cédric and they lost an eye in 2018 or 2019 in france during protests. victims of flash-ball or grenade fire. there's also eric, broken jaw; marlene, 62 years old, 11 stitches to the head; lola, fractured jaw, broken teeth. she was in the hospital. frederic, antoine and anne, pierre, gabriel, hand torn off, zineb, 80, killed by a grenade as she closed her shutters. there are several hundred others. cheeks are broken. so i don't defend the thugs and the vandals, i exorcise them because they harm everyone and because they spoil the social mobilizations. i don't blame the police because, obviously, a lot of police officers would like to be a yellow vest themselves. but i must say that there are very serious things happening in my country, france. a power in the abyss gives insane, irresponsible, foolish orders against its own people. a power which has the recklessness to abuse its people instead of responding to them and their just social and democratic demands. it is all the violence of a financial order which is expressed under the guise of a democratic power and which is now unleashing itself against its own people, who have become aware of their state of servitude. this is not france. so yes, long live the yellow vests, long live the ric, long live the social republic and long live frexit.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, freedom of demonstration is in danger in several eu countries. this is particularly the case in france. since november 17, 2018, the "yellow vests" have been demonstrating every saturday in paris and most major french cities. the vast majority of them do so peacefully, in compliance with constitutional and legislative rules. their demands are legitimate, they are calling for more tax justice, more social justice and a better integration of democracy by the institutions. and yet their freedom to protest is doubly threatened: first by the black blocs and other professional thugs, who have been allowed to act with impunity for too many years and who take advantage of demonstrations to commit violence; secondly, by a vicious law, which is about to allow prefects to ban anyone from demonstrating, without any prior intervention of a judge, using this violence as a pretext. it's the return of a sort of law of suspects, of sinister memory. in the face of this libertarian drift, i strongly remind you that freedom of demonstration is essential to democracy and i call on the lr and en marche members of parliament, who are behind this law, to get their act together.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the rule of law in which i want to live ensures freedom of demonstration in safety. one injured in a demonstration is one too many. what about the 1,700 people who have been injured since the beginning of the "yellow vest" movement in france? behind the numbers are women and men who have lost the use of an eye, have a serious head injury or a severed jaw. lives ruined forever. they were victims of the defensive ball launchers still used in france, the famous lbd, which we want banned in europe, as our human rights defender advocates. the french police policy is dangerous and fuels tensions. it's all worth revisiting. as a member of the european parliament, i learn to draw on the best of other european states. instead of restricting our individual freedoms and responding with a security drift, as the french government is doing today with its anti-protest law, it would be better to draw inspiration from its neighbors and good practices aimed at de-escalation and dialogue between protesters and the police. i have a question for you, commissioner: do you plan to strengthen the sharing of good practice, on the model of the godiac programme?
madam president, 1 900 people wounded, 188 in the head, 20 stripped, five hands torn off, an 80-year-old woman who died of her injuries, hundreds of people bugged, thousands of preventive arrests, people thrown into prison: this is the record of the repression of the 'yellow vests' movement and of these weapons, which we call for to be banned. is all this normal? in addition, during the same period, an attempt was made to search a major french media outlet and to criminalise political and parliamentary life. from this terrible record, france, as she embodies it, emerges disfigured. france, once a source of inspiration for the protection of rights and freedoms. i am sad to say this here in the european parliament, but i am worried about my country, i am worried about the freedoms in france and i am worried about president macron's authoritarian turn.
madam president, commissioner vella, in my country, france, for several months now, my countrymen have been protesting in the streets against president macron and his policies of social destruction and state destruction, dictated by the european union: i am talking about the social uprising of the 'yellow vests'. the protests, which have been going on for more than two months, are a serious obstacle to the government's efforts to discredit them by facilitating the introduction of smugglers. these individuals of the ultra-left, the black bloc, act with impunity, under the eyes of television cameras, and these "yellow vests" who are peaceful, are victims of an unjust and disproportionate security repression. nearly 2,000 people were seriously injured. many of these unfortunates, deliberately maimed by flash-ball shots to the head, have lost an eye and are left disabled for life. far too many citizens suffer from fractures and traumatic brain injuries. as regards judicial repression, there were 5 000 arrests and detentions, often preventive and similar to arbitrary detention. the severity of the penalties is disproportionate to the acts of which the accused is guilty. the legal repression is being prepared with mr. macron's new anti-seizure law. this law, unique in europe, will give the prefects the power to ban any political opponent arbitrarily designated by macron from demonstrating, and any troublesome opposition risks being confined in a detention centre or police station. this anti-seizure bill will be liberticidal. commissioner, that is what your euro-federalist policies of austerity are leading to in france: they are leading to totalitarian deviations. this serious attack on democracy could escalate into an insurrection. you can't say you didn't know.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, article 20 of the universal declaration of human rights, articles 10 and 12 of our charter of fundamental rights enshrine the right to assemble and to express one's views peacefully. in france, a popular social movement has been subjected to systematic and disproportionate repression for the past three months: defensive ball launchers and explosive tear gas grenades are used on a massive scale, despite their proven lethal range and their impossibility of control. this is why most european states have banned them from their police arsenals. a woman was killed at her window, five hands were ripped off, 20 people lost an eye, 188 protesters were injured in the head and face: they were mutilated. video and eyewitness accounts show that the majority of the victims were peaceful. the inherent threats to physical integrity of such weapons are incompatible with the exercise of the right to protest. their use must be prohibited on european soil in order to guarantee this fundamental right. in the maintenance of public order, as in any use of force, violence begets violence and it is up to political leaders to avoid escalation: this is the warning we want to sound by proposing this resolution.
madam president, much has already been said about the repression of the 'yellow vests', and i fully agree with that. this criminalisation of social movements is not limited to france. today the trial of the catalan political prisoners begins, we can only draw parallels. i want to protest against the restraints imposed on journalists by members of the security forces, the mass preventive arrests and the organized violence, which is in tune with the harsh policies being carried out today. in addition, the french government has passed a law in parliament which effectively establishes administrative control of the right to protest. this escalation of repression only exacerbates the violence, to the point that the police unions themselves deplore this deliberate choice of confrontation. a political question, a political solution, responding to the legitimate, social and democratic aspirations of the french people and the peoples of europe. immediately, the communist party tabled a bill to ban the use of defensive ball launchers in policing. let's keep it that way.
i have received four motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 123 (2). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 14 february 2019.
the agenda calls for the debate on the commission statement on large predators (2018/3006 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, 12 300 victims is the number of livestock taken by large predators to france. more than 1 000 victims a year and the commission tells us again and again that the means of protecting the herds are sufficient. it's all right, man. the farmers must apply them correctly, i.e. they must equip themselves more and more. more dogs and more fences, always higher, by the way. the arms race, commissioner, makes these areas uncontrollable and sometimes dangerous. will open-air livestock farming become incompatible with tourism and other mountain activities? and if so, what will happen to all the protected species of fauna and flora that also depend on well-managed grazing? commissioner, what is the answer to this cruel paradox that we ask our farmers to maintain our biodiversity while leaving them to fend for themselves in the face of the attacks of these large predators, without caring about the economic and psychological impact they suffer? commissioner, this cannot go on any longer, the commission must once and for all hear the pain of these farmers in our rural areas.
mr president, the european court of human rights has repeatedly pointed out that freedom of expression applies not only to information or ideas that are welcomed, but also to information or ideas that offend, shock or worry. voltaire had said the same thing two centuries earlier. and yet, freedom of expression is increasingly being unjustifiably infringed, both in france and in europe. in france, the law of 22 december 2018 allows any political party, especially one that supports the president of the republic, to ask the judge of referrals to stop, in election period, the dissemination on the internet of any opinion assimilated to an inaccurate allegation. it is a powerful tool of censorship of the opposition, which the minister of justice has already threatened to use against marine le pen. the european union is no exception. the european parliament has just amended its rules of procedure to prohibit meps from making offensive remarks, which is contrary to the western democratic tradition, which guarantees meps the right to say whatever they want in the chamber. this situation is unfortunately symptomatic of the cynicism of the temple merchants who run the european union and shamelessly violate the european values they claim to defend.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, commissioner, in france many farmers have been poisoned by pesticides. many now blame the state for turning a blind eye to this unprecedented health hazard. president macron recently said that chlordecone is not carcinogenic. a falsehood that shocked france. it is good to denounce the irresponsible positions of our leaders. it is better to open our eyes to the root causes of this system. the european objectives are crazy, starting with article 39 of the feu treaty on the cap, which makes no mention of the quality of production or health protection. if a farmer commits suicide every two days in france, it is obviously because of the short-term productivity imposed by the european union, with its key, paltry incomes, while the giants of agrochemicals are raking in billions. you know that it is not possible to change the european treaties, but it is possible to get out of them.
mr president, commissioner, on 25 january the heads of state and government finally agreed on the introduction of harmonised risk indicators. and that's a very good thing. but at the same time, on 25 january, the representatives of the 28 member states were unable to adopt the guidelines proposed by the european commission to protect pollinators from damage caused by pesticides. so where's the truth? the truth is that since 2013, the commission has proposed 25 times to the member states a text to better protect bees from pesticides. the truth is that 40% of insects have disappeared in the last decade and the mortality rate of bees is as high as 80% in some regions of the european union. intensive farming is the main driver of this decline, and with it the excessive use of pesticides. the truth is that the heads of state continue to hide behind pseudo-european decisions which are in reality nothing more or less than their own. this is because there is still a lot of room for improvement in the sustainable use of pesticides, particularly in terms of alternatives. it is that these same heads of state must stop their hypocrisy on the pesticide issue and stop rolling out the red carpet to agrochemical multinationals. it is time, commissioner, for the european commission to put its hands on the table, hold member states to account and, if necessary, launch infringement procedures. the health of 500 million european citizens is at stake.
mr president, the 2009 directive on the use of pesticides compatible with sustainable development had relevant and coherent objectives and encouraged pesticide reduction and alternatives. but you, the commission, have been three years late in making this assessment. and then you realize that it's a complete failure. why would you do that? because when you look at the figures from the european environment agency, they show a 10 to 20 percent increase in the demand for pesticides. at the same time - and contrary to what my colleagues say - we see that in terms of biodiversity, there is a decline in invertebrates, insects, ecosystems and also birds. so what do we want? the destruction of life? the commission - and the report that has been given is very clear on this - must encourage alternatives, put money into it and develop sustainable agriculture. and sustainable farming is without pesticides, without chemicals. that is what is important, commissioner, and not the other way around.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the question of pesticides is regularly raised in the plenary. once again, some are trying to set agriculture and the environment against each other, playing on the legitimate fears of our fellow citizens. i would like to use this report to reiterate - as i have done since the beginning of my mandate - that farmers are the first environmentalists. our citizens need to be reassured about the use of plant protection products. as such, i am convinced that science must be the unquestionable basis of all our decisions. we must take a positive approach to the role of agriculture in the ecological transition and its relation to environmental issues. to ensure that farming practices are ever more environmentally friendly, it is essential to support professionals. they must be able to have solutions adapted to each type of agriculture, whether these solutions are plant protection products, natural or synthetic, or whether they use alternative methods. if this text is in line with this approach, i would like to remind everyone, including you, commissioner, that the cap is first and foremost an agricultural policy and not an environmental policy. however, the cap must help farmers to achieve both economic and environmental performance. the ecological transition will be successful, if it is economically viable, or it will not be.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 12 february 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by mr ivo belet, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the implementation of the cross-border healthcare directive (2018/2108 (ini)) (a8-0046/2019).
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, crossborder mobility, in other words the possibility for european citizens in a legal situation to move for a longer or shorter period of time between member states, when it is voluntary and consensual and not forced by economic stagnation and unemployment, must be as easy as possible. this is why the analysis of the application of the 2011 continuing care directive in europe is important. while care provision and reimbursement must remain a national matter, cooperation between states at all levels, including carers, is necessary to provide safe and equally high quality care in all countries. the europe of social protection and health has existed for two hundred years, and it must be strengthened. however, this should not be an opportunity for uncontrolled immigration and, especially via online care and under the misguided and anxiety-inducing pretext of rare diseases or vaccination, an additional computerized data bank or a compulsory one should not be introduced. we will therefore be very careful to give full meaning to this directive and to combat any deviation from it.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 12 february 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by ms simona bonafè, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the minimum requirements for water reuse (com (2018) 0337 c8-0220/2018 2018/0169 cod)) (a8-0044/2019).
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, mrs bonafè's report is an important report because it provides concrete solutions to the serious problem of water scarcity and the increase in droughts in the european union. this particularly worrying phenomenon, due to warming and climate change, affects entire territories in southern europe, which face water supply crises and intense water stresses every year. farmers are the first to pay the price of these crises when irrigation systems dry up. i am therefore in favour of increasing good practices in waste water collection and reuse, particularly for irrigation purposes. on the other hand, we must be very firm on the quality of these waters and tighten the requirements on plastics and micropollutants. only then can we meet the triple requirement of protecting human and animal health, protecting the environment and safeguarding our water supplies.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, this proposal for a regulation on the reuse of waste water and treated water from domestic, industrial or agricultural sources is a major issue and, in our view, for three main reasons. what is, i am sorry, madam rapporteur, the real infox, is the claim that drought or water stress is already affecting one third of the surface of the european union. this is a fallacious statement, which does not refer to the lack of water in the strict sense but to the inadequacy of structures for its management. that is why we support the report's proposal, which opens the door to the management of the entire water chain, from storage to distribution and reprocessing. it is not necessary to frighten the people by proposing a project which should have been done long ago, following the great works of the 19th century. the scarcity of water to justify the disappearance of farmers and farmers and to impose little by little the artificial food the future eldorado of the giants of agrochemicals and finally the authentic commodification of water which, becoming a scarce and therefore expensive commodity, will be able to be the object of all financial or political speculations. as vital as co2, h2o will become the alpha and omega of all the stakes and speculations of globalisation.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the circular economy, this report is particularly important and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs bonafè, and my colleagues for the work they have done. beyond the question of transparency, accountability and the need to support research and innovation, i would like to mention one point which is particularly important to me: the health status of crops must not be affected by the quality of the treated waste water. in order to ensure efficient use of treated urban waste water resources, it is necessary to inform farmers so that they can use this recycled water in an optimal way for their production and do not risk impacting it on health. the same is true of consumer acceptance of this reuse in the food chain. the key, for me, is therefore security, information and training of the actors, and i thank the rapporteur for taking these aspects into account.
mrs grapini, no one has seen you, although you are a regular on-demand interviewee. since this phase is over, i suggest you put your contribution in writing.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 12 february 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
this is the reporter. madam president, i would like to thank the large majority of colleagues who voted for this report. i asked to speak, exceptionally, because this is the last report i have the honour of presenting to the plenary after 27 years in the european parliament. thank you, colleagues. (the house stood and applauded the speaker.) i'm gonna take this opportunity to punish you with two more sentences. in 1989, i joined here, in what was a political forum limited to a part of europe, west of the iron curtain. and the parliament which i will be leaving in a few weeks is a real parliament, a real european parliament, with legislative capacity. i would like to thank all the members, starting with my group, of course, but also the staff of parliament, the staff of the groups and our assistants, for the work done together. thanks to you, dear colleagues, i learned that listening, dialogue, mutual respect, the search for compromise, the obsession with the common interest were far more effective than the systematic confrontation that too often characterizes our national debates. many of our national parliaments and a prestigious capitol on the other side of the atlantic would have a number of lessons to learn here. i will be honoured for having been an anonymous worker, humble but proud to have contributed my part to a political construction that will mark the history of our continent forever. in the future parliament, of which i shall no longer have the honour of being a member, i hope that the majority which has just been expressed will be united in adapting our union to the challenges of the new century. thanks again, man.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the atlanticist powers and the petro-monarchies that supported and armed the islamists are no longer the masters of the game in syria, and i am glad of that. it is time for reconstruction and for the return of refugees to their homes. but a sword of damocles hangs over our fellow citizens because of the carelessness of our governments, our lax laws and some of our ideological judges. 450 radicalised prisoners, including 50 jihadists, will be released from prison by the end of the year, according to ms belloubet, french minister for justice. the minister of the interior, christophe castaner, has just announced the return to france of 130 more terrorist fighters. in belgium, 182 islamists have been released into the wild since the start of the syrian conflict. we must urgently review our legislation and be relentlessly rigorous. let's strip the islamists who have dual citizenship of their citizenship and expel them. as for the converts among us who have only one nationality, let us restore the death penalty or the rod to them. they are traitors, and they will be judged and condemned as such.
madam president, commissioner, the situation in syria is one of the most complex and, above all, one of the most urgent for the european union. today the european union is powerless with its kurdish ally and will have no role in syria in the near future if it persists in wanting to envisage the reconstruction of syria without working, whether it likes it or not, with the one who now controls 90% of the country: bashar el-assad, and this in conjunction with ngos and civil society. commissioner, if we want to help the syrians, we must be able to consider the return of syrian refugees to syria as insistently requested by lebanon, which bears the huge burden of 1.5 million syrian refugees on its territory, and to re-establish contact, whether we like it or not - once again - with bashar al-assad. if we want to prevent the serious danger to the internal security of the european union, namely the return of thousands of jihadists imprisoned in the prisons of kurdish fighters and the syrian regime, who can be released at any time and come to carry out attacks on the soil of the member states of the european union, which is already suffering from many terrorist attacks, we will have to deal with damascus, whether we like it or not. how do you intend to ensure that the european union acts on the basis of the geopolitical reality on the ground in syria, commissioner?
madam president, yesterday in the house of commons, the british foreign secretary said that assad will remain in power. this is an admission not only of the failure of british policy, but also of the failure of the policy of the entire european union, which has unconditionally supported regime change since 2012. the european union's strategy is now in ruins. in december, the united arab emirates and bahrain reopened their embassies in damascus. the arab league has presumably reintegrated syria, too. russia and iran emerge victorious from this conflict. the european union has been permanently marginalized by its illegal support for islamist terrorists. now she intends to make the same mistake again by following the americans into venezuela. it is time for the member states and the european union to recognise their mistake and re-establish diplomatic relations with the legitimate government of syria. the future transition will take place without the european union, and that is all the better.
mr president, my colleague mr preda is still in the europeanist camp of a europe that does not work and has never worked. once again we are trying to make bosnia and herzegovina a post-national state and not to recognize the three nationalities with each one of the constitutional rights. this strategy can only lead to the domination of the muslim majority population and chronic instability. his condemnation of the nationalist discourse is implicitly a condemnation of the serbian republic. there is still the will of the european union and nato to play a strategy of destruction of a cultural and spiritual europe, with its identities and its nations. the integration of bosnia into europe is still the rejection of the europe of nations and national identities. this europe is finished, and it never really existed. we must build the europe of cooperation between nations.
mr president, mr president-in-office, when i am not in strasbourg or brussels, i live in lyon. it is a city with an ancient link to italy: moving from piedmont to lyon, and vice versa, this is what the founders of the lyon silk industry did in the 16th century and generations of italians after them. i want to talk about the lyon-turin, which is incredible to hear here that it is still a project. in reality, the lyon-turin tunnel is not just a link between two cities, just as the channel tunnel does not connect dover and calais, but the whole of the united kingdom with the rest of the union. the lyon-turin line is the central link in the mediterranean corridor from algeciras to budapest. but i am talking about the relationship between the gentiles, and the ponti report is mainly about money. this report re-calculated the figures of the previous experts and succeeded in finding that the lyon-turin route would cost the italian state. it is true that some revenues will be reduced, such as taxes on fuel and on the revenue from motorway tolls. yes, there will be less traffic, fewer trucks, but most importantly less pollution. my question, mr prime minister, is this: do you not think that the old and fraternal bond between our two countries deserves better than this ponti report, which lacks methodological rigor and environmental concern?
mr president, i am addressing you as the former french secretary of state for foreign affairs, member of the european parliament and president of the provence-alpes-côte d'azur region. my region shares hundreds of millions of european euros in cooperation with my italian neighbours. in fact, we share everything: our borders, the coastline, the mountains, our history, the mediterranean and even our accent. i love your country, i love the italians. but today, the legitimate recall of our ambassador is the direct consequence of your interference. for the first time since the war, you've just strained relations between our two countries; this is a major diplomatic blunder, which shows that your so-called pro-european speech is wrong. moreover, to want to make politics in france is completely out of line with your convictions, you who are constantly advocating italian sovereignty. then why are you meddling with our affairs? i have only one question: who paid for this trip to france? if it is the italian taxpayer, you have just eliminated your french candidates, because it is an offence in france to use a legal entity in an election campaign. and italy is a legal person. your allies can thank you, with a friend like you, we don't need enemies. in fact, your behavior is unseemly, immoral, indecent, inefficient, irresponsible and illegal. i'm not congratulating the heir to the renaissance you should be embodying.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, trade has no enemies, and that is the credo of the commission, its technocrats and free traders of all stripes. while the european union has already largely abandoned its borders and eliminated its customs duties on almost all its tariff lines, this treaty with singapore, a veritable warehouse and crossroads of international trade, is in addition to all other free trade agreements in progress or to be concluded. we are thus opening our doors wide to goods from asia, the pacific, north america and europe, which will definitely endanger our economy. and this agreement is all the more dangerous, especially for french and european consumers, since singapore does not recognise much of our european standards. as for the values of the european union, let us not talk about them any more, they end definitively and systematically where the financial interests of multinationals begin. freedom of the press, human rights or the fact that singapore is on a grey list of tax havens, none of this bothers the commission. trade has no enemies, except that neither france nor europe profits from this trade, while multinationals do. except that this ultra-liberal policy of profit, chicanery and procedure, the people no longer want it. they want to decide what goes into their territory, what ends up on their market stalls or on their plate. they are now determined to defend themselves against this globalist policy of europeans who are happy: what a harmful treaty has done, the people will eventually undo.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, free trade agreements follow one another and are similar. they are being followed up at an increasingly rapid pace, the end of the mandate, an almost frenzied pace. and they are similar because they always follow the same logic, which is to systematically privilege the interests of the owners of capital or mega-companies over those of consumers and employees. so from this point of view, there is nothing new in this agreement with singapore; no constraints on environmental standards, private courts that will favour business over the state, no binding social standards, rights for investors, but never obligations. i would like to moderate the enthusiasm of my colleagues: we are talking about singapore, and we hear that europe shares many common values. first of all, it is not a peaceful parliamentary democracy, it is an authoritarian regime. secondly, and this is also important for us, i point out the contradiction: it is a recognised tax haven, one of the world champions of financial opacity. it is a contradiction for europe to say: we are tracking down tax evasion and at the same time we are happily contracting with such a state. so, commissioner, you say that this is the best possible agreement, but i believe that there is still a long way to go.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, you have rightly praised the economic dynamism of singapore, but there is one thing you have not praised in the example of singapore, namely freedom of the press and democracy. and the reason is that this investment agreement undermines democratic systems. how can you not see that the development of populisms, the development of nationalisms is being pushed, fuelled by the transfers of sovereignty that you are constantly organizing from citizens to multinationals? these arbitration tribunals where tens of thousands of singapore-based multinationals will be able to attack european states on the environment, on health, on public services and now even on debt restructuring! it undermines democracies! europe is democracy, europe must be the citizens, it cannot be the multinationals! please, ladies and gentlemen, reject this investment agreement, we cannot support multinationals, tax havens and authoritarian regimes all the time: it undermines democracy and kills the european project!
mr president, to make an agreement with singapore is already to give china a first free hand. singapore, which was created in 1965 as a result of the separation of malaysia from the rest of the world, is an advanced platform for china, with its 75% chinese population. today, more than 65% of singapore's exports are actually products from china, which are eventually re-shipped. it is therefore opening up the market economy to china, which is not a bad thing in principle, but which opens the door to a serious, if not fatal, imbalance in our economies, both in terms of the quantity and quality of products, the standards of which are obviously practically non-existent compared to our own. in addition, the dense and opaque nature of singapore's banking and financial activities is a particular cause for concern. we therefore urge you to reject this agreement in the name of the economic protection of the nations of europe, and of france in particular.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, madam commissioner, i had muscle pains one day and in my country, france, i went to see a neurologist and the only thing he said to me was 'smoke hashish'. first, the problem is that smoking is bad for your health and then hashish is banned in my country. do not think that in all of europe today, we can use medicinal cannabis, that is to say the cbd molecule, it is not true. so we need a european framework and from this point of view it is very important that the commission can give clear indications to the member states. i would also like to say that the resolution presented here is clear, in particular, that it is the doctors who will check the prescriptions and that is very important. it is not a question of saying today that anyone can use cannabis, but that it is the doctor, the only judge, who can say that cbd cannabis can be used in the context of the resolution of a number of pain for patients. but in this connection a number of amendments have been tabled, notably by the conservative members, which are to say that only the pharmaceutical form could be useful. this is not entirely true, however, because we know that mild prescribing methods, such as herbal teas, ointments and the like, can sometimes be much more effective and much more targeted in certain patients who are intolerant to medicines. so, be careful. it is true that medicines are needed and that they must be monitored, but we also have to trust doctors to prescribe other methods of administration, and this is the sense of the amendments that my group will table, which are more appropriate for certain pathologies and certain profiles. let us not close the debate, there is no possibility of drifting, we are only talking about medicinal cannabis, the cbd molecule, and not recreational cannabis, i say it again, and we must be open because the pharmaceutical lobbies should not be the winners in this case.
the s&d group. - madam president, let us be strict indeed. the first is that we do not know exactly what is happening with the research carried out by this chinese scientist: nothing has been scientifically proven today as regards the conclusions he claims to have reached. i would therefore urge caution, because we cannot run after the effects of the announcement today. the second element is that we already have a charter of rights in the european union and there will have to be a legislative framework adapted to this one day, which prohibits and regulates a number of practices that can be extremely dangerous. the third and final element, and this is a bit of irony, is that this chinese scientist claims to have used the crispr-cas technique. but the same technique which is now being denounced for the human genome is being used by us for the new plant hybridization techniques, which we are told pose no problems and cannot pollinate nature in a harmful way. i think we should be consistent and look at what we ourselves are doing in relation to these techniques before we embark on ad tracking.
madam president, commissioner, i also welcome this report at the end of my term. this report must be the guide for our policy and the programme of the future commission from the beginning of next year. we are indeed coming to the end of a neoliberal economic model which is now showing its limits. the 'all profit', 'all growth' and gdp as the only indicator clearly show that things need to change and that this model does not live up to the ambitions of the 17 sustainable development goals voted in 2015. and our public policies should be conditioned by a number of elements. today, 40 percent of the insects on our planet are disappearing, and that's a major indicator. we can no longer continue our public policies as we have in the past and we need to consider, in coherence with the 30% climate target, the cap, our main public policy, to put food and human health back at the heart of the policy debate. we cannot continue to pursue these kinds of public policies as we have done in the past. yes, this is a major challenge: we must collectively take responsibility for the future of europe and the entire planet.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, madam commissioner, i think i can say that with this proposal the european parliament is positioning itself as the best defender of a strong and ambitious cohesion policy, so much so that we need a great policy of solidarity to reduce the territorial fractures in a european union that has been disfigured by austerity policies. our committee on regional development is almost unanimous in considering that a cut in the budget cannot be accepted and the ball will be in the council's court after the vote on this report; i call on him not to sacrifice traditional policies of solidarity in support of our territories. i would like to thank all my colleagues and the rapporteurs for proposing to maintain the budgets for the outermost regions and for increasing co-financing for all the regions whose development is lagging behind and the outermost regions in particular, and i would also like to thank the european commission for putting forward in its initial proposal a number of the proposals i made in my report. the macroeconomic conditionality remains, which we reject. we call for the amendment we have tabled to be voted down.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to rule 15 of this rules of procedure, which contains common provisions. regulation setting out the conditions for the use of european funds for the period 2021-2027. this article thus gives the commission the possibility of suspending european funds from a state which does not respect the budgetary policy dictated to it by brussels. tomorrow, in concrete terms, the european commission will be able to say to a member state... (the president interrupts the speaker)
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to article 15 of this regulation laying down common provisions, which will set out the conditions for the use of european funds for the period 2021-2027. this article thus gives the commission the possibility of suspending european funds from a state which does not respect the budget line dictated to it by brussels. tomorrow, in concrete terms, the european commission will be able to tell a country that it is spending too much, that it does not have an economic vision to the liking of brussels. so, of course, i'll tell you right away, there will be the privileged on one side and the pestiferous on the other. there will be friendly governments that are a bit of the commission's darlings, like mr macron's - since he can already exceed the 3% deficit without being worried by the european commission - and then there will be the others, that is, the pestiferous, the bad guys, the populists. those who, as in italy with salvini, may exceed 3%, but will be punished. it's a funny conception of democracy, a funny conception of respect for the rule of law. so to accept this outrageous blackmail of european funds by the commission is to hand over to it the keys to our public finances, and when i see the results of austerity policies in greece, portugal and spain, i do not want to do that. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has already taken action on this. mr president, once again we are witnessing a europe divided between the member states which are succeeding and those which will have to catch up. this is partly due to austerity policies, which penalise some member states with fragile economies. it is this gap, which is widening day by day, that our cohesion policy is seeking to tackle. the main objective of this policy is the convergence and harmonization of our regions. the proposal for a regulation on which we are going to vote is accompanied by an article which enshrines austerity through macroeconomic conditionality. article 15, which seems to me to be counterproductive and contrary to our ideal of european harmony and unity. article 15 would inflict a double penalty on the regions by making them responsible for the policies pursued by the government. i therefore call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of the abolition of article 15 and to honour our mandate by defending our ideal of european cohesion and unity.
mr president, commissioner, cohesion policy is a european policy which is unfortunately not discussed enough, but which, as we know, is essential for our territories and which embodies the europe of proximity. it would be wrong to claim that this policy is perfect, but the text before us this morning is moving in the right direction. i would like to emphasize very quickly three points which i consider essential in the text we are considering. first, simplification is the key. it is never enough to say that it is no longer acceptable for project promoters to abandon european funds because of complexity that sometimes turns absurd. secondly, cohesion policy must pay more attention to the peripheral territories. the evolution of the category of transition regions is good news for these territories, which are often caught between the big cities and the sometimes unfair competition from the less developed european regions. the situation in france is a reminder that these territories need to be better considered. finally, thirdly, a point which we have raised with several colleagues on the subject of brexit: several european regions are at the forefront, and they will very soon become the frontiers of the european union. with the uncertainties that lie ahead, with the risks that we know, europe cannot sit back and wait, it must provide as soon as possible with support mechanisms and instruments on this vital issue. i therefore call on the negotiators to keep these elements in mind in the discussions that will continue so that we can work towards a europe that is concrete, useful and at the service of our citizens and our regions.
mr president, madam commissioner, for more than 20 years now, the conservatives and liberals in this house have been constantly trying to change this cohesion policy from a policy of solidarity to a policy of competitiveness. we see the result: europe is in environmental, social, economic and political crisis. so i thank the two co-rapporteurs who, by their amendments and their actual transformation of the commission's proposal, have tried to give a sense of solidarity to this cohesion policy. thank you for having taken up the issue of simplification, for having included the 'children's guarantee' in this project, for having kept the three types of region and therefore for having increased the co-financing rates and the 30% on the climate challenge that is our common responsibility. today, the major issue is that of economic macro-conditionality. we cannot accept - and this has been said by several speakers - that the commission of the european union should intervene at regional level whenever a member state does not comply with the rules of the stability and growth pact. this is a notable inconsistency which will be detrimental to the development of our territories at the level of the european union.
mr president, for those who are still under illusion about the true nature of the european union, this financial regulation will be enough to tear the veil. already in may 2008, the commission had set the tone: by simply adding a line to the financial framework, it added a new criterion for the allocation of cohesion funds, that of the integration of immigrants, thus shaking up the red cloth of financial retaliation. this new requirement is part of a set of dictates, of which the recommendations addressed to france in 2018 gave a foretaste: pension reform or an increase in the smic. in this generalized social caste, only those whom the commission modestly calls 'the disadvantaged groups', especially migrants, are getting their money's worth. but the european union, in its sense of omnipotence, is showing fatal presumption. france and italy, which have been forced to accept a wave of migration or yet another round of austerity, are still net contributors to its budget. on the eve of crucial elections, brussels is playing with its legitimacy and, ultimately, its survival.
mr president, the hysteria of the us shutdown has hardly receded, it is another shutdown which, earlier this month, left thousands of bosnians defenseless against the unleashing of nature. the inability of the authorities to cope with one of the most spectacular floods in recent years is only a symptom of a deeper problem: the impasse of a multiethnic and therefore multi-conflict state. the impasse is aggravated by a european enlargement process which, in the eyes of many citizens of the western balkans, lacks both clarity and integrity. in 2017, only 19% believed that their country would soon join the european union, and 42% considered this outcome to be positive. for many, vladimir putin's triumph in belgrade demonstrates that the future lies between china and russia, where they believe they will find conditions conducive to good faith cooperation. without the courage to close the enlargement chapter, brussels risks digging an abyss of resentment and frustration.
i think that this debate is timely. when looking at the identity of a political group, the way it treats tax justice says a lot about the nature of its project. taxation is the expression of political priorities, the possibility of financing public services, protection, a guarantee for citizens, all of which are now at the heart of the concerns of our citizens. however, we now know that tax evasion is estimated at €825 billion per year, while the union's 2019 budget is less than €150 billion. there is a gap here which we cannot accept. we need to fight for better identification and greater severity towards tax havens. today, a growing share of tax revenues comes from consumption taxes, while vat represents between 15% and 25% of member states' tax revenues, not to mention the fraud involved in this form of taxation, which is a tax that does not ensure redistribution. we need to move towards this 21st century taxation, the one we voted for, the one we adopted, with a consolidated tax base and an identified digital presence as the legislative basis. it is in this sense that we can move towards more fair taxation at european level, which is a real priority. and it is in this sense that the socialist group proposes an effective rate of 18% throughout europe for this corporation tax. you have put forward a proposal in stages to remove the obstacle to unanimity in the council. i wish us luck in this direction, i do not know how far we can go but i am sure that this european parliament must support this opposition with determination, because this is the way forward.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, 'fair taxation for a fair society' is a good programme! but it is interesting to note that it was the socialist group which asked for this debate. it is ironic that these same socialists have repeatedly imposed a totally unfair and confiscatory taxation which has only resulted in the plundering of the middle classes and the weakening of their purchasing power. meanwhile, the us internet giants pay little or no tax. on average, gafa pay only 9% of corporation tax in the european union, compared to around 23% for other companies, especially smes. what the multinationals call tax optimisation is in fact a vast system of tax evasion, which uses and abuses all the flaws in our respective legislation. in short, some kind of organized gang legal fraud. our various tax laws have not been able to adapt to the digital economy. but instead of helping member states to fight these unscrupulous multinationals, the european union encourages the free movement of capital, but also the liberalisation of services, especially since the famous bolkenstein directive of 2006. on the other hand, donald trump, who is often criticized in this house, paved the way for the taxation of gafa with his major tax reform of 2017. we must defend a simple and effective principle: multinationals should be taxed in the countries where they are based and where their turnover is generated.
mr president, the over-exploitation of resources and the unequal distribution of wealth have always played a central role in the process of the collapse of civilizations. that's what nasa researchers found in 2014. since then, inequalities have continued to worsen. we live in a world where 26 billionaires have as much wealth as 3.8 billion people. in france alone, the richest 10% own more than half of the world's wealth. it's not normal. the citizens, tired of these inequalities, are not mistaken. we must not wait any longer to reduce these intolerable wealth gaps. we need fairer taxation, taxation that is both more social and more environmentally friendly, that accompanies the indispensable energy transition while helping the most modest, because the two must go hand in hand. a fairer tax system also means an end to privilege, an end to impunity for individuals and multinationals who so easily evade tax. it is a political choice, on which the future of our societies depends.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, the treaties remind us that europe's mission in health is to ensure equal access to quality care for all. so how do we understand that the clinical added value of a medicine authorised throughout europe differs from one country to another? how can we explain to patients that the same treatment is considered innovative, useful and effective across the border, while it is considered to have less added value in their own country? how can we tell a patient that he has to wait for this new medicine which is already available in the neighbouring country? let us not be mistaken. it is not a question of price and reimbursement, but of jointly conducting a scientific evaluation of the therapeutic added value of a new technology compared to existing alternatives, in order to promote treatments with higher added value, to enable budgetary decisions by the member states and to speed up patients' access to medical innovations and also to avoid duplication of work; it would lose all its added value to our common procedure. i regret that the reluctance of the member states has not allowed us to move more quickly on this essential text. thanks to our rapporteur, we did, however, adopt a reasonable text in september which was to help overcome these differences. i call on the council today to think about patients, who can only benefit from increased european solidarity in health.
mr president, i think the situation is serious because the end of the inf treaty (intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty) is re-igniting the nuclear arms race, not only between russia and the united states, but also for all the middle powers, such as iran and saudi arabia. it is a direct threat to europe. the end of the inf treaty means the obsolescence of a treaty which, under pressure from environmental and peace activists, has made it possible to massively reduce the number of nuclear missiles stationed in europe. the end of the inf treaty threatens the whole architecture of non-proliferation treaties, the foremost of which is the npt (nuclear non-proliferation treaty), signed in 1968, which is the only universal treaty we have today. if european countries refuse to welcome american weapons on their territory any longer, they will block president trump's ambitions. the concept of intermediate weapons, between 500 and 5 000 km, which is no longer adapted to the realities of the 21st century, with nearly a dozen nuclear powers and new vectors, must also be revised. the european union must therefore quickly propose a mediation process between the united states and russia. we must also propose a nuclear-free zone in europe, the so-called zeans (nuclear-weapon-free zones), of which there are six recognised in the world. the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons must also be signed by all the countries of the european union. this would be a strong signal to stop the escalation of nuclear weapons.
this is the reporter. mr president, madam commissioner, to know where we are going, we must know where we have come from, and i think i can say on behalf of all of us that we have come a long way. when three member countries proposed to create a european investment screening mechanism, the response was chilly. when the epp proposed a union document to the european parliament on this mechanism, it was met with reservations. when president juncker presented the proposed regulation, right here, in september 2017, there was a majority of scepticism. i would also like to congratulate the european commission's services on their efficiency, which reacted very quickly with a regulation, clever from the outset, particularly on the question of competences. i think we can all be pleased that we have taken account of the context, the needs and, above all, the interests of each individual, thanks to the excellent joint work of the three institutions: an austrian presidency of the council aware of the political issues, a commission listening to proposals and a pragmatic european parliament. i would also like to thank my colleagues and co-rapporteurs, with whom the reflection work has been a strength. it was this trio that made it. as you said, commissioner, this mechanism is a first. the first european mechanism will be a major complement to national screening mechanisms. and to borrow the famous title of another proust novel, we were "in search of lost time". our main partners already have a mechanism in place: the united states, with cfius, has had expertise since 1975. this mechanism is therefore a symbol of europeans' awareness that the world around us is not just filled with investors with benevolent intentions. you'll agree that this vision was very naive. from now on, member states will no longer be able to turn a blind eye to foreign and foreign investments in european territory and say: 'we did not know'. we did not know that a whole european value chain had been acquired by a single state or foreign company, we did not know that a dual-use technology, civil and military, had been acquired by a foreign military, we did not know that the ultimate investor, sheltered behind a conventional investor, had the objective of sabotaging a european programme. it is a mistake not to know, at a time when the evidence of these fears is sometimes incorporated into the political planning of the economy of certain foreign powers. we are of course open to foreign investment, because we need it. europe is a land of innovation and will remain competitive, thanks also to the free movement of capital. but freedom does not mean anarchy. freedom does not mean impunity. filtering is not the same as banning. filtering is about retaining the best and the filter's mesh, in this regulation, is up to the challenge of today, and this thanks, too, to the european parliament, which played its part in strengthening the commission's proposal, making this mechanism something other than a timid experiment. we have strengthened the collection and exchange of information, we have strengthened the anti-circumvention of national mechanisms, we have strengthened intra-european and also international cooperation. we have made a major step forward by replacing the law of silence with the law of dialogue. finally, you know that i cannot help speaking about the third scenario, the worst-case scenario for which i fought to the end, and which already allows us to anticipate the concerns of at least one third of the member states about foreign investment. the commission, which is at the heart of this system, will then have to give an opinion. this instrument is an opportunity which the member states must seize for the public order and security of europeans, because we are in the single market, but not just in a market. europe, with this instrument, will be better able to protect itself against the butterfly effect of investment, not to mention the investment race between the united states and china, which must not turn europe into a supermarket. it's got to be a showcase. so, yeah, we've come a long way since then. in record time for a new regulation, we have reached this agreement and we can now say that we know where we are going, towards a europe which affirms and defends its interests offensively and defensively.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the purpose of this framework for the screening of foreign investment is to protect us from hostile non-european investors who want to appropriate our strategic companies and their technology. the chinese are buying up key infrastructure and companies with unique know-how in our countries, in order to recover their expertise, of course, and it is time to put an end to laissez-faire. awareness is needed and the national rally delegation will approve this text which is a first step, much too late, towards measures to protect our economy and our strategic assets. it should be remembered, however, that for decades the european union has promoted excessive free trade and the most unbridled liberalism. if today all of europe is potentially threatened by extra-european investments in states lacking filtering mechanisms, it is primarily because of the common market that you have set up, without reservation. this afternoon most members were applauding one of the new free trade agreements which is putting our companies in unfair competition with those from all over the world. for 40 years the commission, the majority of members and our governments have been complicit in the policies which have led to our deindustrialisation. they have also allowed many strategic enterprises to be bought by foreign interests. the arsonist firemen you are now wish to put in place protections to limit, for better or worse, the damage caused by their own policies. with three months to go until the elections, let us hope that this mechanism is not just a communication to our citizens and that it will allow for real change. the europe of tomorrow will have to protect the interests of its member states. this intelligent protectionism has always been one of our priorities, and we hope it will be yours too.
mr president, commissioner, i would first like to thank my colleague, mr proust, for his work on this very important matter. this first european fdi screening mechanism marks a new step and is part of the continuing modernisation of trade defence instruments and the rejection of china's market economy status. the world is changing and it is time for the european union to adapt to the realities of today's economic challenges. we can no longer stand idly by in the face of the chinese, american and gafam giants who impose their law without any feeling of conscience. as such, our competition rules are outdated and the decision to prohibit the alstom-siemens merger is a serious mistake. we must absolutely allow the creation of european champions, it is urgent that europe now lives with its time.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, i think i can note, as you do, that the speeches from the various political groups show strong support for a mechanism with great potential. i was pleased to note the support of the national rally, which has always supported, as it says, but without making any contribution or tabled any amendments. worse still, his representative, mrs jamet, had even voted against the text in the inta committee. and then, even though we are in pre-election times, let us stop all these caricatures, these fake news about free trade agreements which, as they say, are intended to amplify unfair competition, when, on the contrary, these agreements are intended to regulate our trade relations. i also did not understand the few criticisms of the commission, because the commission will not decide anything; the commission will only issue opinions, and we have insisted that this be the case, so that the principle of subsidiarity of the states is never called into question. only the states will decide whether or not the investment is viable on their territory. i have one regret, however: yesterday afternoon we had a meeting with mr conte, the italian president of the council, who assured us of his preference for closer cooperation between the member states in many areas. this is in complete contradiction to the position of italy since this government came to power. i must tell you that it is the only member state to have rejected the agreement on this filtering instrument, i should say the only one. why is that? i don't know why. the most sceptical countries have come to support this proposal, as you said, mr bütikofer, and we can all be very pleased about that. despite this, we have made progress in the right direction: the monitoring of the application of this mechanism is in the hands of the commission, but with the european parliament's watchful eye. the debate on this regulation brought a strategic issue to the table and hungary became the 14th member state to create its mechanism at the end of 2018. other countries are thinking about this, and they should of course be encouraged to do so, in order to create a national filtering mechanism in each member state, and to make the european mechanism more effective. this is what we are going to put in place in a pragmatic way so that europe continues to be seen as an attractive continent for foreign investment, but not naïve when it comes to defending its interests. so, if we're going back a long way, let's bet we're going back a long way.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 14 february 2019.
the agenda calls for a debate on the report by mr ivan štefanec, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the mutual recognition of goods lawfully marketed in another member state (com (2017) 0796 c8-0005/2018 2017/0354 cod)) (a8-0274/2018).
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the preamble the free movement of goods is presented as a fundamental freedom. that's the original sin of that text. this misuse of language is a wonderful illustration of the ultra-liberal doctrine of the european institutions and of this house. the free movement of goods is not, and never will be, a fundamental freedom; it is an economic facilitation, the fruit of trade, customs and international agreements and that is all. viewing europeans as consumers and europe as a market will never solve the european union's deep deficit of credibility and legitimacy. to persist in this course leads to a dead end. the free movement of goods is not an end in itself. it can be an effective tool for development only if it is based on strict respect for national interests. restricting the scope of action of the member states is wrong and contrary to sound economic sense. the rigidity of this materialistic and ultra-liberal vision of europe only creates economic and social imbalances which are detrimental to consumer safety and respect for national specificities. europe is a much different and much more beautiful reality. it is unworthy to reduce this continent to a market populated by consumers. i believe with my political group, echoing the irresistible rise of patriotic ideas in all the member states, that europe and the europeans deserve better than this disembodied, cold and boring project. so trust us: in the very near future, we will offer them the possibility of another future so that economic common sense and the pursuit of the general interest and the common good can be restored.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 14 february 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by eva maydell, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on fees applicable to cross-border payments within the union and currency conversion fees (com ((2018) 0163 c8-0129/2018 2018/0076 ((cod)) (a8-0360/2018).
madam president, mr vice-president, when we talk about financial services, we do not often talk about consumer rights. we are gathered around a text which has been negotiated at length by our parliament on a clear position. we all know people who have faced these impossible situations: they are abroad, they pay in the local currency, and they are informed only much later about the exchange rate and the fees applied by the bank. or they choose to pay in their own currency, but a service provider converts the amount of the transaction, this is called 'dynamic currency conversion', and this often has a very high cost. in reality, there is no reason why transactions in euro should be so expensive. the european parliament had an additional demand, an additional ambition, which was that this transparency of charges could be communicated to the consumer at the time of sale or access to the distributor. because the idea was to be able to compare the two options. unfortunately, the council has not followed us and, in the end, we have a text which means that this information will be available, but not in real time, and i want to make a slight disappointment in the concert of praise that accompanies the adoption of this text. however, this is a real step forward: the introduction of the obligation to provide information on charges is essential to ensure that consumers' rights are better respected. we will have to go further and ensure that the same costs for transactions in euro and foreign currency are also a reality in the internal market, but this will be left to our successors. i believe that today we can, as othmar karas said earlier, welcome the 'roaming' of euro transactions within the european union and that is good news for consumers.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 14 february 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for a debate on the report by roberts zīle, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1073/2009 establishing common rules for access to the international market for coach and bus services (com (2017) 0647 c8-0396/2017 2017/0288 cod)) (a8-0032/2019).
it's not exactly a question, but mrs. meissner will answer it anyway.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 14 february 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, it is dangerous to use the mobile phones of the chinese company huawei. they are very likely to be a huge source of information for the chinese government's intelligence services. capturing this intelligence appears to have already allowed china to steal western technology. several democratic states have already expressed their concern about this, such as canada, australia, poland and belgium. and on january 28th, the us justice department formally charged huawei with stealing us technology. the czech republic has just excluded it from a call for tenders. the european union can no longer stand idly by: a european commissioner, andrus ansip, has already warned against this chinese enterprise. we must act now. i expect the european parliament to launch an inquiry and the european council to recommend that the member states of the union take immediate precautions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, every year one billion poultry and 37 million cattle, pigs, sheep and equines are transported alive into the european union and to third countries. the worrying thing is that only 1% of these animals are checked. many surveys, including those of ciwf, show that abuse is widespread. the legislation is not respected at all: excessive transport time, inadequate equipment, animals crowded together. the result is that these poor animals are at best dehydrated, hungry, stressed, weak, or beaten, trampled, suffocated, maimed, or die. this situation cannot continue, and we must ensure that more controls are carried out and that much more severe sanctions are applied to ensure that the regulations are complied with. the best solution, however, is to avoid transporting animals over long distances. the european union, which is increasing its free trade agreements, is of course heavily responsible for this disastrous situation, which is leading to ever more animal abuse. intensive farming and overproduction are also sources of animal abuse and suffering, and here again the european union is encouraging this system. it's time, ladies and gentlemen, to come to our senses.
mr president, commissioner, it was exactly one year ago today that 223 members of parliament called for a committee of inquiry into the transport conditions for animals in the european union. the chairmen of the groups, particularly those of the right and the socialists, opposed this committee of inquiry and blocked our ability to verify the actual conditions under which the animals are transported. so when i hear a number of members, from the left or the right, come here and explain that we need to improve, etc., i say that they are laughing at the world. we're making fun of the world, commissioner. simply because the suffering of animals doesn't matter, because the suffering of animals counts for nothing compared to the profits of agri-food in our society. and that 's the scandal . so be careful, be careful because if it doesn't interest this parliament or the leaders, it interests the citizens, the ngos and the journalists. and we are, through this inaction, widening the gap between the european institutions and the citizens a little more. so be careful not to continue in this dehumanized world, which makes us lose all our values of solidarity towards the suffering of animals.
mr president, i support this initiative which has resulted in a balanced report and sensible proposals. we need to clarify the application of the rules on the transport of live animals, because this is a matter which has negative repercussions on the whole european meat chain and, as always, it is the farmers who pay the consequences. we are concerned about the distortions of competition which may exist between our countries, but we must recognize them where they really are. first, distortions in production costs, which require the segmentation of birth, rearing and slaughter between different places and thus the multiplication of journeys. distortions also in transport costs, between countries that have been following the rules for years and those that have not. distortions in slaughter costs, leading to animals being moved further and further away from the farming and consumption areas. finally, distortions caused by a liberalized foreign trade policy with third countries which do not respect our health standards and make our efforts to promote animal welfare useless. so let us stop importing animals that we do not want. let's support local alternatives that will revitalize neglected territories and let's tell our citizens that no, farmers are not responsible for animal suffering.
(start of the speech off the microphone)... mr president, i am really angry. every year, millions of animals in europe are transported in appalling conditions: locked up, exploited, abused. we can no longer turn a blind eye to this animal abuse. animals have the right to be respected and treated with kindness, just like human beings. last year, for example, several ngos demonstrated that 70% of the trucks inspected at the bulgarian border did not comply with eu legislation. we must bring these shameful practices to light by means of a commission of inquiry, even if the socialists and the conservatives do not want it. it is time for us to put animal welfare back at the heart of our action, to reduce the maximum journey time and to ban animal exports from the union to third countries. the point is very simple, ladies and gentlemen: if you have not understood that it is high time to defend animal life rather than the interests of the agri-food industry, then you have not understood anything. now we must all be brave enough to support this committee of inquiry, because it is proposed for good reasons, but above all because it is necessary and useful.
in writing. my speech on this subject which is very dear to me is the result of a long-standing commitment, since i am one of the few members who originally called for the establishment of a committee of inquiry into the transport of live animals. although i regret the rejection, i welcome the work of my colleagues on this report of the utmost importance. what is it ? some 37 million calves, cows and sheep pass through europe's roads every year, at the cost of terrible suffering. these journeys, which can take up to 70 hours, are often marked by a severe lack of hydration, space and oxygen. in 2016, a video by eurogroup for animals tore the veil of these atrocious abuses. i am afraid that this umpteenth parliamentary report will remain a dead letter, in the absence of real political will not only to enforce existing legislation in the union but also to impose similar standards on our trading partners. as brussels prepares to flood the european market with foreign meat, especially brazilian, this last requirement seems destined to remain a wish.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am presenting to you today an owninitiative report on a policy which is certainly technical but which is nonetheless essential to our union: customs policy. this policy is one of the foundations of the internal market and is so integrated into the european union that its importance is sometimes forgotten. the customs union and its proper functioning are absolutely vital for the european union. and this own-initiative report is part of a series of legislative and non-legislative initiatives on the union customs code, including the reports by my colleagues selimovic, grapini and pospíšil. the customs code as we voted in 2013 at the time provided for the establishment of a computer architecture to implement, from 2020, next year, digitalised customs procedures at european level. unfortunately, we have had to extend this deadline to 2025 in the selimovic report because of delays by the commission and the member states in developing and implementing the it applications needed for these 100% online customs procedures. it is in this context that the report we are discussing today is set up. the report first emphasises the priority of implementing the community customs code. the reform was launched by the commission in 2008, more than 10 years ago, and is still not fully operational. it should be clear that the new deadlines for the member states and the commission, 2023 and 2025 respectively, for completing the it architecture are not indicative and that any further delay is absolutely forbidden. so to meet these deadlines, the report we are discussing now asks the commission to 'integrate the constraints and methods of planning and conducting conventional projects - i would say - but which would benefit from being actually implemented: a definitive definition of specifications, the establishment of milestones to facilitate decision-making and reports drawn up in a clear and permanent way. in this connection, the specific report of the european court of auditors has shown that these elements, although essential for the conduct of projects, have been lacking until now and in my view, their absence explains in large part the fact that the objectives are still not achieved today. more broadly, the report under discussion calls for stronger governance of the 'customs 2020' programme and future 'customs' programmes, particularly for large-scale projects. to this end, it called on the commission to review the whole of customs governance, following the implementation of the 17 computerised tools, but only afterwards, on the basis of the report of the european court of auditors just mentioned. so, to this end, the report i am presenting to you also encourages the commission to continue its reflections and work on the tool on the performance of the customs union, as we invite the commission to work for a uniform application of customs legislation throughout the european customs territory. we also heard from a number of economic operators and customs administrations, who tell us that the implementation of the customs code is not sufficiently uniform today at union level, which of course leads, firstly, to uncertainty that is potentially costly for economic operators, but also and above all risks for the integrity and the proper functioning of the internal market. and i hope that in this report the commission and the member states will work towards ensuring, as i said, a uniform implementation of these customs procedures by means of the exchange of good practice, joint actions between customs administrations and the establishment of practical guides to strengthen the capacities of the least performing member states on these issues. finally, and this is something that must be important for all of us, parliament must be fully informed of the state of progress and implementation of the customs 2020 programme and the customs code. we therefore ask the commission and the member states, in their respective areas of responsibility, to further improve the information we have in order to ensure full parliamentary control over this programme of over €850 billion, over a key policy - again - of the european union, which has so many implications: parliament must be fully involved, even in difficulty. i thank the non-attached rapporteurs and the colleagues who have largely supported this report and i hope that it will be equally supported in the plenary and heard by the commission and the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, i am going against the tide. i am going to make a case for customs duties for a cooperative market because, indeed, from a technical point of view, if you have a single market with a single currency, you have comparative advantage, and comparative advantage means that the strong get stronger and stronger, and the weak get weaker and weaker. so you have two technical solutions to solve the problem. you have the transfer zone solution, the federal budget for the euro zone, for example, that's a solution. you have a second solution to balance the internal market and make it a cooperative market, and that is customs duties. and you have the solution, which is a mixed one, of making a federal transfer budget and applying customs duties. you must think of the harmony of the internal market, not just of competition and competition.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this important debate. as trade commissioner, i am more than aware of the importance of a functioning, transparent, smooth and fully trustworthy customs system. it has to be safe. it has to be predictable. it has to be state of the art and very modern. and we are working towards this. this is, of course, very important for the internal market as well. i know that there is frustration about the extension of the transitional period for the full completion of the it system. we have been fully transparent in this regard by regularly updating and publishing information on the planning schedule for the electronic systems, after consultation with member states and economic operators. also, following your request, last year the commission published a comprehensive report on the state of play of the implementation of the union customs code (ucc). in this report we announced and explained why additional time was needed for the completion of some of the electronic systems. but i do acknowledge that a more strategic report on the progress of the electronic systems and on ways to address any possible delays will further increase transparency. that is why the commission has undertaken to report to parliament on the progress regarding the completion of the work on the electronic systems on an annual basis. concerning brexit – i think those concerned have left – but as of the withdrawal date the uk will become a third country, as you know, and that implies that the union customs code will apply to trade goods coming from the uk. there are no derogations foreseen and it is the case today. the implementation of the code falls under member states’ competence. we understand that they have taken measures with a view to staffing, infrastructure and it systems necessary after the uk withdrawal. however, of course, withdrawal of the uk without an agreement clearly carries risks and the commission is in active discussion with member states on these issues. i would like to thank the rapporteur again and also the other members of the committee who have helped to highlight the very important issues related to the customs union and its functioning. you can be assured that i will convey your comments and suggestions and questions to commissioner moscovici.
i'm the reporter. mr president, i would like to thank all my colleagues again for their participation in the debate, their contributions, their contributions, with a special word, of course, for my fictitious colleagues, with whom i have worked extremely fruitfully on this report. i also thank you, commissioner, for your replies. we have a largely shared view, i think, and we also share the ways of improving to ensure that the customs union, the customs code and all the systems that must help to implement it fully in the future are developed and that we manage to meet the new deadlines that we have collectively set ourselves. in any case, thank you for your encouraging replies, and i hope and believe that the report we have discussed will receive a large majority and that it will be able to provide a basis for common reflection in order to build together a functioning customs union. we need it. let us remember that it is a pillar of our european union which is perhaps too often overlooked and yet fundamental.
author. mr president, the departure of robert mugabe in november 2017, after 37 years of dictatorship, had raised immense hopes. unfortunately, the election of emmerson mnangagwa was immediately contested and led to violence, with several deaths. despite the electoral commission and the promises of the new president, tensions fuelled by the economic collapse have continued to grow. the 150% increase in the price of fuel, already one of the most expensive in the world, has had a sparkling effect. the demonstrations following the strike of 14 january were brutally suppressed. riot police fired live ammunition. deaths, torture, beatings, at least a thousand arrests according to the police themselves and a judicial machine running at full speed: all means are being used to silence the protest. there is an urgent need to act, there is an urgent need to help the political dialogue, the european union and the african union must help, rather than turn a blind eye as in mugabe's time.
author. mr president, in june 2018, women were finally granted the right to drive in saudi arabia. a great victory? no, you're not. saudi arabia has dropped from 138th to 141st out of 144 in the world ranking on gender gap. women are under the guardianship of men; in the first place, the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. worse, a saudi government-run app called absher (the preacher), accessible via google and apple, allows husbands to control their wives, especially if they have the idea of attempting exile alone, which is the case for thousands of saudi women every year. the men and women we are talking about today, all of them women's rights activists, are symbols. arrested at the very moment of the introduction of the driving license, tortured, whipped, electrocuted, and facing very long prison sentences. so let's not be fooled by the so-called progressive agenda of mbs (mohammad bin salman al saoud), neither at home nor in yemen, act now.
mr president, i do not want to change the agenda, but simply to check that you have noted that i do not have my voting card and that i am against the proposal that has been made.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, i thank the rapporteurs. the reform of the european cybersecurity agency will allow for coordination of national authorities responsible for cybersecurity and the sharing of information. it is an effective response to cybersecurity issues at european level, while respecting the role of states in the areas of law and national security. from the breach of our privacy to financial embezzlement, the lack of serious regulatory standards puts our digital environment under threat of cyberattacks. we must cooperate on cybersecurity, as the europe of nations we call upon does. beyond cooperation, voluntary certification will allow consumers to be better informed about the digital protection of the products they will buy, which is a big step. however, in the long term, only mandatory certification will secure an internet of things whose place in our societies is exponential. finally, it should be noted that the massive digitisation of our daily lives makes cybersecurity a major topic and that the growth of the budget devoted to it is logical. however, if we allow the 40% increase in enisa's budget by 2022, we should remember that the budget of the european union should be reduced in the context of brexit.
mr president, commissioner, dear paolo, what a long way we have come! serving the essential objective of rebalancing relationships in the supply chain and strengthening the position of farmers was our will. in the last two years we have produced three texts: the reform of competition law and its application to agricultural markets, the revision of the rules on contracting, with the introduction of an individual right to a written contract, and the establishment of a european framework to combat unfair trading practices. yes, i think we can turn to the farmers with our heads held high. while these issues have been blocked for years, parliament has played an indispensable role in this fight against the timidities and divisions of the council. in future, it must continue to address these very important issues. we could not have done this without the establishment of the agricultural markets task force in the midst of the milk crisis in 2016 - and we have you to thank for that, commissioner. the conclusions of this working party were essential to the progress we have made and are still making tonight. a final and essential issue remains on the table, namely the transparency of markets. the commission is working on this and we will be making concrete proposals in the next few weeks in the context of the reform of the cap. we will need your support once again, commissioner, to complete this work on a cause which we, like you, consider to be a noble one. we thank you for that.
mr president, 350 euros a month is the income of one in three farmers in france. every week, 260 farms disappear. meanwhile, the profits and gains of the food giants are rising, while their shareholders are getting more and more dividends. this is an unequal and unfair situation. we must - and we all know this here - make a living from our work. it was imperative to intervene. i would like to thank mr de castro, the fictitious rapporteurs and you, commissioner, for making it possible to bring this directive to fruition today. justice and equality are essential. we will also have to develop, as mentioned earlier, transparency, but also implement, as you said, commissioner, an observatory in all sectors of activity. beyond this success, we will have to monitor the implementation of this directive and commit all the member states to go further than the text alone which will be voted on tomorrow.
mr president, this report on unfair trading practices in relationships within the food chain is back in the plenary - i would say finally - again. it will therefore take almost a year, since the publication of the legislative proposal, for the text to be put to the vote in this house. the fact that the report was referred back to the trilogue last october, even though it extended the time limit for adopting the report, has nevertheless improved the economic security of our producers. the number of practices considered unfair has been increased, buyers from third countries have been added to the scope of the directive, producer organisations and interbranch organisations will be able to lodge complaints on behalf of producers, the identity of complainant producers will be protected to avoid any form of pressure on them, and finally the competent court will be chosen by the complainant. we hope that these improvements will make it possible to better protect our agricultural supply chains against the giants of the agri-food sector. that is why we supported this report in the committee on agriculture and we will support it again in the plenary this week. however, there is still a lot of work to be done before farmers can really be strengthened in the food chain. we must not regard this text as the miracle cure and ignore this subject in the discussions on the future cap. despite the efforts of some countries, such as france, on this subject, we can only observe that the influence of producers in trade relations remains desperately low. producers expect us to deliver on this issue, which has a strong impact on the economy of our sectors. let us therefore respond to their concerns, for they are urgent.
mr president, the de castro report has the merit of seeking to combat the unfair practices of the large retailers, which strangle farmers by forcing them to sell their products at low prices. that's why i'm voting for it. but this should not absolve the european union of its heavy responsibility in the present crisis, which is driving our farmers to despair and, alas, sometimes to suicide. the free trade agreements that the union is negotiating with agricultural giants such as canada, australia, new zealand and brazil are madness, because they deliberately organise unfair competition to our detriment. our farmers must comply with social, health and environmental rules which are not imposed on farmers in these countries. this unbridled ultra-liberalism has also led the european union to abolish the milk and sugar quotas which had stabilised milk and sugar prices. we, the members of the national assembly, had protested against this suppression. we were right, for we are seeing the sinister effects of this today. the german company südzucker has just announced the closure of two sugar factories in france, in eppeville and cagny. in eppeville alone, the closure has disrupted the lives of 132 employees and 1,268 beet growers. i call on the union, and particularly on the commission in brussels, not to play pontius pilate and to admit that they are wrong. i ask them to use the preparation of the new common agricultural policy to further support our model of quality family farming against the ultra-liberal us-inspired agro-industrial model which is destroying our jobs and our health.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the agricultural sector is experiencing uncertain times throughout europe, i too would like to commend the efficient and energetic work of my colleague paolo de castro and the rapporteurs, supported by the european commission. i congratulate the co-legislators on the agreement they have finally reached. it will enable farmers to live better off the fruits of their labour, and that is all the better: no more last-minute cancellations for perishable goods or unilateral amendments to an agreement. retailers will now have to comply with european requirements and stop abusive practices. as you know, today european farmers receive less than a quarter of the value of the agricultural product. this is a truly unreasonable proportion and puts all our supply chains at risk. in fact, if we are to succeed in the agro-ecological transition and to develop local production, it is imperative to rebalance the balance of power in favour of small operators. this text, this much awaited directive, is therefore a first step towards a better distribution of value within the agri-food chain and i sincerely hope that this directive, which does not stop at our borders, will be effectively implemented in all the member states.
the commission has already taken action on this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have been informed of a citizens' initiative which has brought together more than two million people, for respect for life, from conception to death. this citizens' initiative, which i also support, i am told, has not been recognised, not accepted by parliament, allegedly because it would be against the fundamental principles of the institution. i'd like you to tell me what you know and what you think.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a very important institution in the european union for a long time. mrs. kalniete, you were a child of the gulag. i understand that you are against this system, because you have suffered it in your flesh. i myself fought the communist system, because it is basically based on lies. we must not, however, confuse two things: a system and a country. the russians were the first to suffer the evils of stalinism. in many institutions, bolshevism, we ourselves are not exempt. therefore, when we adopt a certain strategy towards russia, do not see it as a bad hand. france, germany, the czech republic, hungary and even poland sometimes see their own interests in this, and this is in the european interest. it would be quite wrong, and it is bolshevik methods, to consider populist movements as a fifth column.
mr president, the french press has just revealed that almost all european political parties, with the exception of the enl, are financed by multinational companies. this is particularly the case with the centrist party of alde, which president macron is looking down on. in 2018, lalde received €122,000 from eight multinationals, including bayer, uber and google. the case of bayer is particularly instructive: bayer, the agrochemical giant, wants to make agriculture dependent on its gm seeds. bayer, which employs 13 full-time employees and spends €2 million a year on lobbying in brussels alone. bayer, which supplied zyklon b to the nazis and, during world war ii, bought women deported from auschwitz to be guinea pigs. this is where the money that finances alde comes from. mr. macron, sweep your front door before you lecture the national rally and its allies!
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, on tuesday 26 february the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs held an exchange of views with mr philip lane, who was selected for the post of member of the executive board of the european central bank, mr josé manuel campa for the post of president of the european banking authority and mr sebastiano laviola for the post of member of the single resolution board. the fact is that women are still underrepresented in senior management positions in the banking and financial services sector. this is not surprising, given that only 39% of management and managerial positions in european bodies are held by women. we like to discuss this subject, debate it, i would even say to make a fool of ourselves, but when it comes to taking concrete action, there are not many people left, especially at the summit of the european union itself, namely the commission in brussels. of the 13 successive presidents of the european commission, not one has been a woman. nor was there a woman among the founding fathers of the european union. of the 28 european commissioners, only nine are women. is that normal? of 250 million women in europe, is it so difficult to find 14 competent women? of course not! all this is deliberate and nothing is done to set an example at the summit of the european institutions. when we see the slippages of mr juncker, who was seen on camera poking the hair of an official, mrs pernilla sjölin, deputy head of protocol, we can ask questions. is that the example we want to set? is this the image of the woman who is wearing the juncker commission? europeans often point out that the treaty of rome was far ahead of its time in engraving the principle of equal pay in 1957 on the marble. but 60 years later, the facts are clear: the gender pay gap is still glaring in the eu, let alone in the founding countries. so i say stop declaring intentions and let us move on to concrete action!
mr president, a little over a year ago, on 8 march 2018, the president of this institution wrote to the european authorities following the appointment of mr de guindos and asked that in future, in the context of appointments to the central bank, a shortlist of candidates or a minimum of three names be made available to the european parliament in respect of the gender balance. this was not the case in the present case at the time of designation or with respect to the proposal for the name philip lane. we call on the council, the central bank and the commission to join forces so that when the next appointments are made, instead of explaining that their role is limited, they act to change the situation. there is a time when this situation is no longer acceptable and that time has come. it is not right that these financial institutions, and other institutions, neglect gender balance. i am aware of the efforts made within the european commission, but we must change the situation. to do this, you must support the proposal that in the next parliamentary term each member state nominate a man and a woman for the post of commissioner, the only way to guarantee effective parity in the next commission. similarly, for positions of responsibility in economic and financial matters, where a shortlist exists, it must respect gender balance. sooner or later parliament will have to take up its responsibilities. i see the epp's singular and insidious battle to try to blame the s&d group, on the pretext that at the time of the selection our group had not chosen the proposed candidate. we are indeed calling for equal opportunities, but this does not mean that women should always be chosen a priori. in this respect, our group cannot be accused of any kind of manoeuvre. i note, however, that the epp group wants to undermine the only appointment on the agenda for thursday, which is an appointment within the framework of an institution, for political purposes.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, apart from cases of criminal law, there should be no justification for waiving parliamentary immunity. jean-marie le pen, on the other hand, has always voted in favour of his persecuted colleagues, because this is indeed a case of political persecution. if, on the pretext of an ideological dispute, you vote for the tenth time against the immunity of jean-marie le pen, it means that you think it is normal for partisan elements to interfere in the work of your assistants, that the european administration, on orders, arrogates to itself the right to take... (the president withdrew from the floor)
madam president, i will be very brief. when expressing oneself, one should be precise and avoid any confusion. mrs hohlmeier herself has asked for her parliamentary immunity to be waived because of a simple road accident, and i cannot accept that everything is mixed up.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, in accordance with rule 59 (3) of the rules of procedure, i ask that the amendments be put to the vote and i would like my request to be dealt with by roll-call vote.
madam president, i had denounced from the outset the commission's bulimic tendency to create a duplicate of the european voluntary service, together with the european solidarity corps. there was no doubt that this new programme would seek to justify its existence by extending its prerogatives ever further. today, all this is confirmed. while the previous text was adopted only a few months ago, its scope is extended to humanitarian aid operations, citizenship is no longer a condition for participation, and the budget is increased. this is absurd, since the programme is not having the success it was hoped for. what revolts me most of all is the impossibility of carrying out these solidarity activities in one's own country. so brussels is calling for solidarity, but as far from home as possible, and we are told that the focus of activities must be on solving the challenges faced by migrants. you see, this love of others leads to self-loathing. if it wasn't so bad, it would be ridiculous.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, while it is obviously vital to severely punish any violation of human rights, it is certainly not the european union's responsibility to impose sanctions. you are raising this anathema against states, and particularly against member states, which do not approve of your policies on migration or on gender ideology - i am thinking of poland, of course, or hungary. you are using this argument to try to bring down your political opponents, which is doubly reprehensible, first because you are using the cause of human rights, however noble, for lowly political ends, but also because by doing so you are masking the real threats to european citizens, in particular that of radical islamism, which is, among other things, pushing back women's rights. i could also mention the 372 victims of islamic terrorism in france over the last 20 years. this is what is really threatening human rights. and how can we not mention the european court, which is responsible for ensuring respect for these same rights - i am talking about the echr - which, on the contrary, protects these terrorists. recently, it even banned the expulsion of kamel daoudi, an algerian terrorist stripped of his french nationality, who is now staying at the princess' expense in aurillac. it also bans the systematic search of prison visitors, which allowed the attack by another terrorist on two prison guards in condé-sur-sarthe last week. your interference and that of supranational structures is becoming intolerable and dangerous for our fellow citizens.
mr president, human rights, what a lot of bullshit is being done in your name... once again, we are forced to copy and paste an american law, the magnitsky act. the only purpose of this was to threaten the russian leadership with financial sanctions and restrictions on movement, to force them to accept foreign, particularly american, interference in their country and, ultimately, to prevent russia from regaining its regional position. under the pretext of enforcing human rights throughout the world and of punishing those who do not comply with them, you want to gain influence which only some member states of the union still retain. enough of the hypocrisy! it does not take a clergyman to guess that the leaders of certain countries will be spared when the union's economy would have more to lose than to gain. indeed, in the union today, only profits are considered to be paramount. world leaders, depending on whether your countries are strong or weak, the judgments of the union will make you white or black.
mr president, each year the report presented by our colleague mrs piri is finding it more and more difficult to conceal the truth. the situation in turkey remains of the most worrying nature, and even the most ardent supporters of accession are now keeping a low profile. but mrs piri's report is limited to a single, negative analysis of the situation, which does not exclude the prospect of accession to the european union. for us, this is above all a fundamental question: turkey has no place in the european union for cultural and even civilizational reasons, even if the turkish people, a long-standing friend of france, deserves our full attention. moreover, we cannot accept a modernisation of the customs union between the european union and turkey which would be against our economic interests and, above all, against those of our farmers. what do you need, more imprisonment, more human rights violations to make the right decision? i therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of the alternative resolution tabled by the europe of nations and freedoms group, which calls for the final conclusion of the accession negotiations.
mr president, in 1999 the european council formally recognised turkey as a candidate country for membership of the european community. twenty years later, this report recommends that the negotiations be suspended. so parliament is stalling. yet he would honor himself by speaking without hypocrisy. will it take another 20 years to make it clear to turkey that it will never be a member of the union? unlike the europeans, our line has remained steady and firm. in 1986, jean-marie le pen had already said in a speech that turkey was not european by geography, history or culture, despite the disapproval of those who advocated a multicultural europe and those who, like erdoğan and chirac, were able to say that europe should not be a christian club. turkey, on the other hand, has been islamized since the fall of constantinople. a hundred years ago, christian communities still made up a quarter of the turkish population, compared with a very small percentage today. this tragedy alone justifies our calling for the negotiations to be stopped once and for all and not simply suspended.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, mrs fotyga, you are not really dealing with strategic communication. you propose coercive measures to combat undefined propaganda, which is said to emanate from countries hostile to the european union. you are inspired by the same conspiracy-minded and, dare i say it, bolshevik logic as the kalniete report. do you see the hand of the foreigners behind any dissent against the europeanist project: brexit? this is putin! the yellow vests? this is moscow! does it rain in warsaw? it's the russians' fault! we must now use censorship to condemn the popular will that is rising all over europe. we are in a stalinist approach. when are the re-education camps? it's the good old communist days: any opponent is a traitor. madam president, you are betraying the legacy of a great pole, saint john paul ii, who wanted to work for a europe with russia, a christian europe, capable of giving its breath of spirit to a world which is now multipolar, to a europe without a soul. you are thus cutting off europe from its russian soul and from its soul in general. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". i had the opportunity to speak to mrs kalniete yesterday about her experience of the gulag. unfortunately, she didn't listen to me when i was talking to her. i told him that it was a matter of intervening vis-à-vis russia, not only out of sentiment, or even resentment, but that a little reason was also needed in his analysis of the situation. i would say that i can say this all the more because i fought communism and because on 8 september 1989 it was here in strasbourg that we gathered all the anti-communist forces before the wall fell.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, an agreement was reached between the taliban and the united states a few hours ago in doha. just yesterday, the taliban attacked a company of 50 afghan soldiers, killing 16 and taking 40 prisoners. ten days earlier, 40 soldiers were killed by the taliban in the south of the country. i could give you many more recent examples. the taliban still refuse to negotiate with the afghan government, despite repeated requests from the latter. on the contrary, they are increasing their attacks on the government, which now controls only 50% of the territory. these negotiations with the us are paving the way for the taliban's political return to power at the national level, with a weakened executive. this would be a major setback for the fundamental rights and freedoms of afghans and especially afghan women. the whole of afghan society is worried about the possibility of a taliban islamic emirate, which is a freedom-threatening entity, being established in afghanistan again, as was the case in the 1990s. the european union cannot afford to back such an eventuality after 20 years of investment in afghanistan. it's about his credibility. commissioner, we cannot allow the afghans to fall back under the taliban, even in the name of peace.
mr president, the commission is proposing an anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing blacklist, and that is a good initiative. but what do we learn today, and what do we learn with consternation? the council has been quick to tear up the list, to refuse to include countries which, despite their public reputation, are champions of opacity or worse! i will give two examples: how can we deny today the involvement of countries such as panama or saudi arabia in criminal or even downright criminal activities at a time when the peoples of europe are calling for greater transparency? i would remind you that the panama papers were the subject of searches which concluded that they were involved in money laundering. as for saudi arabia, it is well known that individuals have been involved in financing daesh and that the kingdom could not ignore it. so what i see is that between mr ben salman's cheques and the interest of european citizens, the council has decided. parliament must reject, and clearly reject, this democratic scandal.
member of the commission. – mr president, yes, this is the first time we are working on this autonomous eu list of high—risk third countries. we knew when we were planning this and discussing the methodology, the rationale and the criteria which will be used for the assessment that it would be difficult, that it would demand expertise and that it would be sensitive – because we work in the context of the geopolitical and external ties and contacts of each member state – and that it might be unpopular, but we knew absolutely, clearly and for sure that it was necessary. these high-risk third countries are a very important element of everything we do against money laundering and terrorist financing. this is the most important element of the whole system. i will repeat again that this is what we do in the field of the fight against organised crime, where we need to be much better on the side of systematic prevention. this is about prevention. we must be aware of how the financial sector is interconnected and that, if we want to have a safe financial sector, we must not leave any weak points or easy entry points into the system from outside. whenever i discuss these matters with law enforcement authorities, with practitioners and experts, they always have a very clear goal for us: cut the influx of illicit money into europe because this is the money which is financing organised crime and terrorism. so this is what we are doing, and i remain convinced that the countries we listed belong to the list. at the same time, we see that we have to work with the member states on procedural matters because they were at the centre of the criticism which we heard from the member states. so i agree that maybe we need more transparency. i also heard in this house and in the two days of debate that you would like to see a more detailed assessment. we need more clarity and we need stronger – i would even say full – ownership from the side of the member states. we need to check again whether the member states are ready to cooperate and whether that readiness is driven by a genuine interest from the side of the member states to fight against organised crime and terrorism. i hope – and i do believe – that we will find this readiness from the side of the member states because the member states must be aware that in a system where the financial institutions and the whole financial system has no borders in the eu, individual member states cannot efficiently fight against these dangerous phenomena. it has to be a common task and this is what we are doing. the commission is going to work on two parallel strands. on one side, we will work with the member states and with parliament on procedural matters. we will look into the methodology and the criteria we use. i am convinced the criteria are pretty precise and we use them in full. it was a very objective assessment, based on the criteria known, but we will work on this with the stakeholders. the second strand will be our parallel work with the listed countries, with those who are willing to eliminate the risks on their side. i have had discussions with several of those listed and who don’t want to be listed, so this is the invitation: let’s work on the elimination of risks on your side. we need to see the partners where there are no deficiencies anymore. i think that we are very clear about this. this will be one strand of work with the listed countries. the second strand will be working on the assessment of the countries which are in group two, where indeed we also have russia and other countries which you mentioned in this debate. my message is also for the member states. i am not giving up. the machine is working. we are working on it. we are continuing to fulfil our obligations, which we have in legislation. we are doing what’s necessary and we will be back with the new list later this year.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i have followed your contributions and heard the intervention by the commissioner. i take this opportunity to reaffirm the importance which the presidency attaches to the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. as mentioned, the council felt that there were problems with the process as it was conducted by the commission. i am encouraged by the fact that commissioner jourová already said that the commission was aware that many considered that the time for consultation was too short, as well as by her recognition that the process could be improved in the future. we stand ready to continue engaging with the commission in this respect. the council has no position on the listing of any particular country on the list. the reasons for the council’s objection to the list are very well known and were the ones presented in my initial intervention. they relate to the process employed by the commission to arrive at the list and are clarified in the council statement. the presidency will remain available for exchanges on the subject as needed.
in writing. a europe that protects is a europe that acts impartially and decisively against money laundering and terrorist financing, regardless of the countries concerned. let us not accept the europe of double standards and privileges advocated by emmanuel macron! a blacklist is a blacklist: if a country is a threat, it must be on it. no matter how big he is, how much influence he has, or how many guns he buys us! it is precisely to reassure saudi arabia, among others, that the french government and the other member states have rejected the anti-money laundering blacklist. they have caved in to the lobby of third countries unhappy with being on the list. this little game is unbearable. it is time for governments to stop their double talk: we cannot simultaneously want to fight dirty money and oppose a more complete blacklist. the council must reconsider its position. the updated list proposed by the commission should be adopted as soon as possible. let's not leave our doors open to dirty money. let's be consistent in our struggles.
member of the commission. – mr president, allow me to start by expressing my thanks to our rapporteur, mr coelho, and the shadow rapporteurs for the work done in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the proposal we are discussing tonight. we all know that every year, millions of non-eu nationals enter the european union with a visa, be it for a short stay or for a longer period. most of them are legitimate travellers who fulfil the entry and stay conditions on the territory of the member states. the current visa information system (vis) allows us to check at the external borders, and in the consulates around the world, that these conditions are fulfilled. there are, however, still some gaps that we need to close. with the new visa information system, we will remove blind spots in our systems and give visa authorities and border guards the information they need to do their jobs properly. we cannot allow criminals and potential terrorists to enter europe undetected. europe, i have repeatedly said, is not a fortress, and will never become one but, at the same time, we need to know who is crossing our borders. the commission welcomes parliament’s support on the key objectives of our proposal. let me mention the most important ones. firstly, the interlinking of the vis to the entry/exit system, etias (european travel information and authorisation system), the schengen information system and ecris (european criminal records information system). this will help us to detect the use of multiple identities and to identify anyone posing a security risk. secondly, the closing of the information gap on long-stay visas and residence permits – which currently is information not shared at eu level – will allow guards and immigration authorities quickly to determine whether the documents presented to them are valid, and whether they are in the hands of persons entitled to have them. it will also allow national authorities not to legalise the presence of third-country nationals who do not fulfil basic security conditions for entry and stay in the european union, such as persons with links to known terrorists or organised crime networks. this will close an important security gap. finally, the inclusion of copies of the visa applicant’s travel document in the vis database is a measure which, together with authorisation for european border and coast guard agency staff to have access to the vis, will facilitate the identification and readmission of undocumented irregular migrants. this will increase the efficiency of the european union returns policy, notably in relation to third countries refusing to give us their cooperation. in addition to this, to strengthen our capacity to prosecute and prevent crime, law-enforcement authorities and europol will have better access to the visa information system for prevention, detection or investigation of terrorist offences or other serious crimes. access to the vis will also be opened to law-enforcement authorities for the purpose of searching or identifying missing or abducted persons and victims of trafficking. this access will always be subject to full respect for the european union’s data protection rules. the vis upgrade is part of the smart borders package and also part of interoperability. for that reason, the rationale and foundations of this proposal should be preserved throughout the legislative process. that is why i would like to refer to some changes proposed in the report. firstly, the inclusion of information on residence permits in the vis is linked also to the issue of golden visas. while registering all permits issued by member states in a single eu information system might not resolve the question of possible abuse in granting such permits, it provides greater transparency among member states. i understand that parliament wants to take this measure one step further and enable the storage and verification of these documents in the vis from the moment of application, in order to ensure better control over the issuing process. we are looking positively at this proposal. secondly, regarding multiple queries for security and irregular migration checks, the benefits of interoperability should not be watered down by excluding some databases from searches. we managed to agree that ecris and the travel documents associated with notices are relevant in etias, and that should be the relevant standard for the vis as well. it is a matter of coherence and consistency. the standards of verification of third-country nationals who can enter the eu visa free should not be tougher than those applied to third-country nationals under visa obligations. thirdly, the commission proposed to update the existing law-enforcement access rules for the vis. but it is important to ensure that law-enforcement access remains balanced and is not detrimental to the efficiency of the procedure. for instance, adding the obligation to consult prüm databases first will make access more burdensome. fourthly, regarding the finger-printing of children, we have to be consistent. we have proposed lowering the age for finger-printing because we want to fight child trafficking more effectively. i am sure this is an objective that we all share. i understand that you are concerned about the fundamental rights of children and so are we. trafficking of children, abduction or smuggling is an abuse of fundamental rights. statistics show that, annually, between 1 500 and 2 000 third-country national children under the age of 12 are victims of trafficking in the schengen area, and between 3 200 and 4 250 aged between 12 and 17. most of these children come from countries that are under visa obligation. we need to make all possible efforts to tackle this issue. the lowering of the age of finger-printing provides us with a key tool for achieving concrete results. i want to close with the most important point for our citizens. fundamental rights will be, as always, at the heart of all our policies, including in the design of our information systems. all reports on the performance of the vis indicate that its implementation has never led to fundamental-rights or data-protection concerns. not a single complaint has been registered against the vis in its first five years of functioning. we have taken the relevant provisions one step further following the ‘data protection by design’ principle. we stand ready to work with the co-legislators, during the trilogies, to improve those standards further, but we need to remain effective and not depart from our key objectives. thank you for your attention. i’m looking forward to our debate.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i have a feeling i'm going to be a little lonely. the visa information system (vis), which was created in 2004 and came into force in 2014, was intended, like the visa code, to facilitate visas. since 2014, we have seen a regrettable development. the only thing left to do is to carry out a general check and to keep a systematic record of the data. i welcome the work of our rapporteur, who has made it possible for us to remove some of the most problematic points, such as interpol's tdawn, which allows certain countries to catch up with their opponents on the run, as we have seen recently in the case of the saudis. however, we reject risk indicators that mix security, illegal immigration and health risk. the principle of finality is dead! we reject the integration of long-stay visas, which is not within the union's competence. subsidiarity is here! we are shocked by the fingerprinting of children and especially by the reduction of the age from 12 to 6 years, whatever the reasons put forward. proportionality is alive and well! we say no to this text and to the whole 'frontiers' package. we reject the logic of the secure everything, the fixed everything at exorbitant costs. a project for which money is flowing in torrents!
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, by creating this new version of the asylum and migration fund, the european union is still locking itself up in its crazy migration policy. the project proposed to us is catastrophic. it aims to spend more than €10 billion on organising the relocation of migrants and opening legal pathways for immigration. it also aims to encourage, i quote, 'intercultural and interreligious dialogue between host societies and migrants', whereas 'we should rather fight against islamic radicalisation and defend our european values, in particular the dignity of women'. finally, it aims to continue the massive funding of ngos that organize the migration flood, such as open society, the billionaire george soros, when on the contrary it should be fought without weakness. once again, you want to betray european civilization. we will alert the european peoples to prevent you from doing so.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, thank you to our rapporteur, who has put a lot of energy into making these funds acceptable - let us say, not worse. however, the igf, the fund for integrated border management, is neither more nor less than the financial instrument of the fortress europe that we are denouncing. to carry out this security logic, there is always funds available. the budget has been increased fivefold, to €9.3 billion, to which must be added the €12 billion for frontex, or about 2% of the union budget. this money should be used to finance information systems, computerized registers, only those already approved by parliament and the council - this is comforting - equipment and infrastructure, including drones; the famous oli, the liaison officers, sent to help third countries in matters of immigration, especially irregular, of course, this is worrying, additional aid to frontex, in addition to the 12 billion; the new feature is aid to third countries, which has so far been reserved for neighbouring countries, and thus the externalisation of borders, albeit limited, which i welcome. finally, it should be noted that 60% of the funds will be returned to the states. it is therefore legitimate to ask where european politics are.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, climate change is a major concern for everyone on the planet. so they must be approached responsibly to anticipate and deal with them. and to be effective, we must be aware of the interplay of two phenomena. the first is the sole responsibility of humanity, after 200 years of wild industrialization and productivity race, with uncontrolled carbon energy debauchery. the other is a result of natural climate cycles, as evidenced by studies of polar ice, and caused, at the end of the last ice age, a rise in temperature of more than 4°c and a sea level rise of 120 metres. the man had nothing to do with it. so what do you do? stop saying that man and living organisms are responsible for everything; to get out of the paris agreement's angelicism; to catch up with the european union's phenomenal backwardness in terms of technology and innovative alternative solutions; cease to conclude non-environmental free trade agreements; reject globalisation and commercialisation of water, air and land and anticipate their management; limiting the pseudo-environmental constraints that drive down the cost of cars, housing and food, and justify increasingly unbearable taxes on people. let us urgently move away from dogmatism and move on to... (the president withdraws the speaker)
madam president, mr timmermans, the european council on 21 march will give the european commission the mandate it is asking for in order to negotiate a free trade agreement with the united states at full speed. the german government is concerned that the us government will impose tariffs of 25% on its valuable car exports from may next year. what is it? the adoption of zero tariffs on industrial products allows germany to maintain its trade surplus with the united states, which will nevertheless further depress economic growth in other countries, particularly france. it is also about agreeing on common standards for new technologies. so the united states will again impose their conditions on us. finally, it will be necessary to lower agricultural customs barriers. the united states is absolutely committed to this and germany will give the commission a mandate, which will yield, because french farmers and herders do not weigh much against the industrialists mercedes, bmw and audi. and as always, the negotiations on this new treaty will be conducted behind the backs of the europeans, who will find out too late.
madam president, climate change will again be on the agenda of the next european council on 21 and 22 march. this is a cornish dilemma for the european union: on the one hand, it claims to save the planet by reducing greenhouse gas emissions, on the other hand, it encourages unrestrained free trade with the whole earth, which mechanically leads to an increase in the same greenhouse gas emissions. free trade agreements, combined with the unsustainable standards imposed by the european union on our companies, have led to the breakdown of our industries. we are forced to import products from countries that do not meet the same environmental, health and social standards. in addition, everything is transported by supercargoes, which are also superpolluters: sulphur oxide, nitrogen oxide, fine particles, etc. in short, we're losing on all fronts. it's time to rethink our entire economic model. the future is protection, relocation and short circuits. producing, consuming and recycling within a reasonable geographical area is the only way to reconcile our ecological requirements with our economic interests.
president of the pech committee. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on two emergency measures in the fisheries sector, to be ready in case there is no agreement between the european union and the united kingdom before 29 march 2019. the house of commons again rejected theresa may's motion last night. i would remind you that these emergency measures are only applicable in the event of a no deal. however, if, as we all - or at least a large part of us - wish, an agreement is reached, this free trade agreement or customs union will have to be conditional on a reciprocal agreement on access to water and resources as set out today. this is not negotiable! i speak on behalf of the committee on fisheries, which would like to recall this position on the future relationship between the european union and the united kingdom.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, donald trump is the man who a few years ago said that global warming is a complete hoax. it's a concept invented by and for the chinese to make american manufacturing uncompetitive. just a few weeks ago, when the us congress drafted a climate report, with 300 scientists pointing out the dramatic effects of climate change, including on the united states, president trump said, "i don't believe it". this same president trump, in all these past months, has been blowing on the coals of brexit, supporting the hardest brexit, even criticizing theresa may in her desire to find a deal with the european union. and it is with this president that you want to negotiate today, it is to this president that you give part of our sovereignty, part of our values, it has been said. i can even hear our social democratic friends regaining their reason and common sense in this election period. we don't negotiate with a president who's got a gun to our head! we don't negotiate with a president who taxes us in the morning, threatens us in the afternoon on steel, on cars and tomorrow on i don't know what! so if we have the courage, if we want to show in this period that the european union is an economic power, a political power, if we want to show that the european union defends its values on climate and on all social and environmental issues, we cannot start negotiations with the united states. it is a bit of a stretch to say, 'let's start, and we'll see what happens over time.' no, we cannot negotiate today with the united states, because president trump does not represent our values, does not embody our values, is a danger to our economic sovereignty and therefore to our democratic sovereignty.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution is a complete hoax. the spirit of the original text was completely perverted in committee by an alliance of ultra-liberals from the epp, alde and ecr, since some of our colleagues chose to sacrifice political necessity to business interests. where we had to demand solid guarantees from the united states before we thought of negotiating, we now want to negotiate before we get solid guarantees on the automobile sector, on the exclusion of agriculture before the negotiations and finally on an impact study on the fisheries sector. who can believe that an agreement which we will be negotiating for 10, 15 or 20 years will not be signed if at the end of the negotiations one of these conditions is not met? no one did. we must impose our conditions on the united states before we sit down to negotiate, and not the other way around!
the commission has already taken action on this. i am not sure whether you are convinced of the climate change or not. i have not understood whether britain, which has been a very great country in the international community, still believes in the universal values of this international community. and i did not quite understand whether the government in britain today, at this time of voting, was your government!
madam president, commissioner, the european union has decided to reopen negotiations for a trade agreement with the united states. yet, the people are vehemently rejecting the free trade agreements that impoverish them. the planned global agreement with the united states has been in a real impasse since the election of donald trump. instead of acknowledging this failure, the technocrats are trying to find alternative ways. this agreement we are discussing today is one of them. but there is nothing positive to be expected from this negotiation. how can we believe that agriculture will really be excluded from this, when mr juncker has already agreed to increase imports of american soybeans in order to be able to sell german cars. it is time to opt for another model, one that is more sustainable, more social, and more respectful of people and the environment. every day, the european union shows that there is only one thing to do, get out of it to get out of it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if you have one foot in a freezer, in the absolute cold, at minus 273 degrees celsius, and if you have the other foot in a 300 degree celsius oven, the temperature is good, you are at 27 degrees, but you are dying, you will soon die of a heart attack. this is what is happening in europe and the disparities between the north and the south. it took spain eight years to return to growth and its previous level of national production. italy still hasn't found him. france regained it in 2013 thanks to a deficit that it lost control of. we are in a situation where comparative advantage means that european monetary union will only work if an investment agency is set up to invest massively in the countries of the south. otherwise, the future of the euro is in jeopardy.
the agenda calls for votes. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
this closes the voting period.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, we welcome the opportunity for the european parliament to express its views on the evolution of the european stability mechanism with this interim report, whereas this discussion is obviously totally blocked in the council. the creation of the european stability mechanism was a success when some member states needed to be bailed out and no longer had access to the market. today, we must take advantage of this success to move to a new stage, and we know that this stage is also linked to a new environment, where the issue of risk sharing and risk reduction has taken absolutely considerable steps, both with the adoption of the npl package (non-performing loans) and the banking package. that is why my group believes that the development of this european stability mechanism must not lead to the creation of a european monetary fund. we would have preferred the creation of a european stability fund. i understand that the agreement will be about maintaining the existing name, but the main thing is the role that this mechanism will have to play in the future, because we would have liked it to be able to be used fully to ensure the stability function that the european union, and especially the euro area, still undoubtedly needs and that it can provide the guarantee that we need for the safety net of the banking sector. we understand that some things are developing in the council, but from this point of view i fear that a birth defect of the european stability mechanism persists. when the european parliament, in the midst of the crisis, agreed to the creation of this mechanism in an intergovernmental framework, it was out of a sense of urgency, in the belief that we would be able to remedy this situation. but today the council refuses to discuss the useful proposal put forward by the commission which would have made progress towards integrating this mechanism into the framework of the treaties, which parliament continues to demand and claim as the right way forward for the future of the mechanism.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate our two co-rapporteurs on their excellent work and welcome the entry of this european financial stability mechanism into the community framework. it is true that when the single currency was created, no one could have imagined the crisis situation in which the euro area found itself in the wake of the sovereign debt crisis and the difficulties of greece. it was in this context that it was necessary to devise an instrument to mutualise, as it were, the over-indebtedness of certain countries. today it is appropriate to bring this mechanism into the institutional framework, and i thank the rapporteurs for stressing the need to maintain a close link with the national parliaments. when it comes to providing the european financial stability mechanism's share capital and granting financial guarantees, it is the national parliaments that make the funds available and make the commitments. i will express regret because, at bottom, this is about the governance of the euro area, and i regret that it was not considered necessary to recommend the appointment of a finance minister who could have been a vice-president of the commission in charge of the euro. i would also like to express a wish: that the european union uses its currency as the united states of america does, to ensure that europe's vital interests are respected in the extra-territorial sphere. i hope that one day we can use this currency, the euro, as an instrument in economic and trade war to protect our vital interests. but once again i thank our colporteurs, because their interim reports enable us to take an important step forward.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in 2010 the troika of the european commission, the ecb and the imf imposed unprecedented austerity measures on the greek people, who were obviously soon plunged into misery by the blows of the buttocks of these few international officials. you have obviously been tempted by this spectacle, for now you are demanding your own imf, the emf. you write it in black and white: the primary mission of this emf will be to provide transitional financial assistance to member states in need, but, of course, on the basis of specific conditions agreed in the adjustment programmes. we know what these adjustment programmes mean: pensions have been drastically cut in greece, wages have fallen, businesses have been privatised and, of course, unemployment has exploded. the european union is the unstoppable horizon of europeanism, the endless purge ordered by a germany that rules europe with an iron fist. one thing is certain, ladies and gentlemen, although i no longer expect much from the sovereigntist movement in france, i can still count on you to make europe hateful to the people and unbearable to the nations.
madam president, the experience of a decade of austerity policies, which are a resounding failure throughout europe, will obviously not have been enough. and macron and merkel have found nothing better than to invent a new undemocratic institution: the european monetary fund. without any control from the european parliament, the emi will come to destroy, like the imf, the states in difficulty and organise the sacking of the welfare state to impose the ordo-liberal sacrosanct doxa. in reality, the europe of macron and merkel is a machine for crushing democracy: nothing for the people and everything for the banks.
mr president, the eurozone is inherently fragile, because it is made up of countries with too heterogeneous economic levels, such as germany and greece. the nobel prize in economics, the american joseph stiglitz, explained it himself. it is in danger of being swept away by the next financial crisis. the european union is thus working to create increasingly binding safety nets. the european financial stability facility (efsf), established in 2010, was succeeded in 2013 by the european stability mechanism (esm). the latter, considered too intergovernmental, is now being considered for conversion into a more integrated european monetary fund. this new instrument will be a european body in its own right. this is therefore a further attack on national sovereignty. that's why i'm hostile to it. it is obvious that this emf will do as its model, the imf, will make its financial aid to the states conditional on the implementation of a programme of privatisation and austerity imposed in the name of ultra-liberalism, which is the thinking of the european union. i shall therefore vote against, because i do not want france to be the emi's plaything tomorrow.
mr president, the economic crisis of 2008 has highlighted the devastating consequences of an incomplete union which organises the free movement of capital but refuses economic solidarity. in this sense, the completion of monetary union is necessary and indispensable to an integrated economic and monetary policy. i would like to sincerely thank the co-rapporteurs for their work and welcome the introduction of a safety net in this text which allows for a coordinated response in the event of an economic crisis in a member state, not only for the benefit of that member state but also as a means of avoiding chain reactions in the euro area. unfortunately, this european monetary fund remains an intergovernmental object, guided by the rules laid down in the stability pact. without a mechanism for parliament to take decisions in the management of the fund, and without a mechanism for monitoring it, it will be in line with the austerity policies implemented, in particular, in the management of the greek economic crisis. without co-decision, transparency and democratic participation, the pay-as-you-go logic will constitute poor governance of monetary policy and we will again see the disastrous consequences of these policies on public services and child poverty.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote on one of the very last regulations of this mandate for the air transport sector. unfair competition in the airline industry is a scourge. take, for example, the gulf airlines: they are subsidized by their governments, particularly to pay for kerosene and airport charges, which is a real scandal. these practices are the cause of the destruction of thousands of jobs in their competitors who cannot keep up, and that is how many employees are left behind. this scourge brings another scourge, because whenever this unfair competition causes a direct link between europe and asia to be closed, it is in favour of a longer, and therefore more polluting, route through the new gulf hub. we see clearly in this air sector that social and environmental issues are closely linked. the explosion of air traffic is a social and climate bomb. as workers, consumers and citizens, we are all victims. let me remind you that the aviation sector is responsible for 3% of global emissions, the equivalent of the emissions of a country like germany. what does this text do to remedy this? not enough, i fear. the evil is deep. reforming air transport is a huge challenge. we saw that when the paris agreement was signed in 2015 to save the climate, the sector was even excluded from the negotiations. but what makes me sad is that today europe is submitting to a global system that refuses to play its part in the fight against global warming. we have, however, countries in europe who are willing to take up the problem of car-hauling and are now putting several solutions on the table, such as the introduction of a tax on kerosene or the ban on direct courier flights, as was recently done between brussels and amsterdam. commissioner, we have no more time to wait for the airline industry to reform itself. it is up to us, as european legislators, to take up these challenges hand in hand and tackle them. the air sector is an economic challenge, a social challenge, but above all it is a climate challenge. the commission is too silent on this climate challenge.
in writing. the european union is finally tackling unfair practices by airlines from third countries. until now, european airlines have faced an aggressive strategy by their state-owned gulf competitors, which has jeopardised the viability of a sector that employs more than 300 000 people in europe and generated €123 billion in profits in 2016. we have created an area without internal frontiers, but this does not exempt the airline industry from strict rules. anti-competitive practices must be fought if we are to ensure that the millions of citizens who travel by air can benefit from them. this report is a game changer, as the european commission will have increased powers to investigate potential unfair practices and impose compensatory measures to redress the damage, if it is in the union's interest.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is of course a great pleasure for me to be able to give the socialists and democrats their voice in the preparation of this 2020 budget, the last of the multiannual financial framework. this has been clear to everyone: the context is special, since it precedes our common deadline of 26 may. it is an honour, but it is also an obligation. defining the european budget is not simply a matter of figures. the outline of an appropriate budget is essential to translate our political priorities into action. what we are advocating is a budget that focuses on investment in a sustainable and inclusive development relationship. it is possible, and the people who use populist and nationalist rhetoric, who dress their speech in false truths and lies, do not like it. first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur, monica hohlmeier, for her initial proposals of high quality, her budgetary guidelines which have made it possible to work towards a constructive compromise and which have given each of us, the negotiators, the opportunity to feed a constructive report for a sustainable european future. the priorities which have guided the work i have carried out on behalf of my group are as follows. the first is to strengthen the social dimension of the budget by exercising a high degree of vigilance. several factors are important. first, the future of the youth employment initiative, a proven programme that continues to help thousands of young people outside the traditional circles to find their way into the labour market. secondly, preparation for the effective implementation of the european pillar of social rights as from the 2020 budget. then, the promotion of policies for inclusion and the fight against all forms of discrimination, but also the promotion of cultural policies and policies for youth and citizenship, such as erasmus or creative europe. it is also important to remember the protection of european citizens and the respect of the commitments made in the fight against climate change under the paris agreement. we must also be more vigilant in defining a migration policy that focuses on the origins of flows, by pursuing development policies in the countries of origin, and on the integration of refugees on european territory, without, however, conflating this aspect with security issues. the second priority is to strengthen the anticipatory dimension of this budget to accompany all the changes facing europeans, in order to avoid the stagnation of our economy, as the commissioner said, while stimulating competitiveness and sustainable, green and inclusive growth for a society of solidarity. the third priority is to provide all the solutions to avoid new payment crises - the commissioner has just said this - and i do not hide from you that the latest recent information on brexit raises real concerns. the fourth priority is to use all the possibilities and flexibility instruments in the mff and the current financial regulation to draw up a strong and ambitious budget. it is time for the council to take responsibility. being pro-european in speech is honourable, but being pro-european in action is more engaging, and it is indispensable today. so, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for the 2020 budget that we are presenting today is not only responsible but also a bridge to the next mff. it is up to all of us, the european legislators, you, the commission and above all the council, and with it, to make it a reality.
mr president, i would first like to thank monika hohlmeier for listening and for making the necessary compromises. the 2020 budget is the last stage of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework and once again parliament will be committed with determination and conviction to pushing its priorities through. i am sorry to say, mr etheridge, that contrary to what you have said, the budget of the european union has been steadily declining since the 1990s. i am speaking to you, commissioner. i would so like to be wrong, i would so like to see an end to this absurd arms race between parliament and the council. i would very much like, commissioner, that the commission does not systematically follow the intergovernmental logic in budgetary matters. i would like to be able to assure you with confidence that parliament will commit to adopting this budget if and only if climate finance rises to the level of the commitments made in this multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. i would very much like to ensure that the 2020 budget will strengthen the funding of the integration of migrants and asylum seekers and put an end to the union funding of the outsourcing of our immigration policy. i am so worried about the european project and i would so much like to be able to promise that new challenges will be able to benefit from new funding, that parliament will not accept that new priorities are financed at the expense of solidarity policies. i would very much like to see brexit not used as a pretext to reduce the union's budget once again. i would like to convince you that gender budgeting is failing and that there is an urgent need to accelerate this process in favour of equality between women and men. in conclusion, i wish mrs hohlmeier the courage to ensure that the budget is up to the ambitions we have set out and that it does not yield only crumbs. mrs hohlmeier, there is indeed work to be done.
mr president, commissioner, i was in nicaragua at the end of january when i met amaya coppens, a 23-year-old medical student, in the women's prison in la esperanza. a leading figure in the april 2018 student movement, she is detained for political reasons. although amaya and her fellow fighters have suspended their hunger strike, i remain very concerned about the sanitary conditions of their detention. these persons must be able to benefit from effective and independent medical care in accordance with the 1955 minimum rules for the treatment of prisoners, as adopted by the united nations. recently, about 100 prisoners have been "released" in quotes, but are in fact under house arrest, under constant surveillance. we must raise international awareness of the plight of all political prisoners in nicaragua, who number about 670. it's our duty to help them.
the agenda calls for the debate on the annual strategic report by eleni theocharous and francesc gambús, on behalf of the committee on development and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the implementation and achievement of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) (2018/2279(ini)) (a8-0160/2019).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 14 march 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by mr christofer fjellner, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the implementation of regulation (eu) no 978/2012 on the generalised system of preferences (gsp) (2018/2107 (ini)) (a8-0090/2019).
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have been granting tariff preferences to developing countries for 40 years, since the lomé conference, supposedly to facilitate development by integrating the poorest countries into world trade. forty years later, the failure is clear. all development indicators show stagnation or even regression in all respects. the system is actually a moral safeguard for slave owners in developing countries. in a meeting with the bangladeshi embassy, with surprising relativism, we were told very seriously after yet another fire in a chemical plant that caused dozens of deaths that there were fires all over the world, including in the most developed countries. of the 1,000 chemical factories and warehouses in the capital of bangladesh, 850 are illegal and do not meet any standards. the unscrupulous rulers of many countries are playing us and are only interested in this system for the money they can get out of it. so this system is costly, inefficient, sometimes disastrous for men, women and children and their rights, and above all economically absurd.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 14 march 2019.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on the human rights situation in kazakhstan (2019/2610(rsp)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in all seriousness, solemnity and brevity, i should like to inform you that today we are voting on the resolution on negotiations with the united states.
mr president, in accordance with rule 108 on trade agreements and the resumption of these negotiations with the united states, i would like to inform my colleagues that the us trade representative has indicated that such an agreement is absolutely impossible without agriculture being included in the negotiations. i wanted to say this solemnly to you... (the president withdraws the speaker)
mr president, listen to the youth of the world and of europe, who have become our lifesaving hope when everything is getting worse for the climate. listen to this conscious youth calling on adults and the powerful to act now for the climate, for species, for a possible future on earth. this youth tells us that it is no longer urgent to wait, but that it is urgent to act and change everything from the bottom up. what's happening is historic! it is the youth that guides us and shows us the way, that does not want to be led into this blind walk, led by blind men, and that leads us all to a precipice. these young people have understood everything. the time for climate justice has come. one, two, three degrees, she says, is a crime against humanity.
mr president, do the leaders of the european union fear mr donald trump's chin-strikes and angry tweets more than the anger of the european peoples? this is the question that arises when we see that the commission has rushed to renegotiate a trade agreement with the united states. and what is the united states doing? they're raising their tariffs, they're banning us from trading with iran, they're not honoring the paris agreement. what is the commission's response to the european union? resurrect the tafta. it is the return of the zombie tafta, with the same worries, the same uncertainties about agriculture, about regulatory cooperation, about the import of shale gas... in short, the same problems are still being raised and we are being offered a solution which the masses of the people have rejected. we've thrown tafta out the door, we're trying to get it in the window. we oppose this attempt and these harmful policies!
for the gue/ngl group mr president, for the first time we have a debate in this house on afrophobia, racism based essentially on the colour of the skin. afro-descendants are immigrants, descendants of immigrants but also europeans, some of them, for several generations, like our fellow citizens from overseas. there is an unthinkable, a specific racism towards black people, linked to the history of the european continent, to a refusal to face our history and its violence towards africa, via slavery, human trafficking, colonialism and neo-colonialism. it is even found in some political discourse, especially with regard to sub-saharan migrants. so, yes, we must talk about this history without taboos, undo prejudices, recognize the facts and what we should call "crimes against humanity", understand the specifics of this racism to prevent it from perpetuating itself, including in our institutions, educate, and condemn discrimination and violence, including police. we must accept otherness and live the first article of the universal declaration of human rights and say, with aimé césaire, there is an essential fact, we are black and that matters.
mr president, this is not a 'blue card', it is a recall to the rules of procedure. i'd like to hear what our colleague said again. i think he equated the issue of discrimination, racism and homophobia with perversions. these are outrageous remarks and unworthy of this european parliament. will you please take the trouble to listen to what he said again and take the necessary action if i correctly heard what was said. i don't expect an answer, it's a reminder of the rules.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you have decided to put the mobility package on the agenda. i would draw your attention to the fact that there are over 1 000 amendments which are not translated. you voted, we will respect your choice. but now, each one must take responsibility. it's time to be responsible. what does it mean to be responsible? it means taking the social best-case approach for all our workers, especially the lorry driver. do not do what you did last time, which was to try to exploit this text so that we end up without a text.
mr president, in a few weeks i will be leaving my post as a member of the european parliament after ten years of fighting against corruption and for tax justice. i leave this parliament with a mixture of satisfaction and bitterness and with a wish for the future. i am pleased to see that after ten years, thanks to the whistleblowers and the committees of inquiry into tax evasion and their outstanding rapporteurs, the greens' demands for greater transparency and tax cooperation are increasingly shared in this house. it's the victory of our ideas and i'm happy about it. my bitterness is the lack of political will to turn ideas into action to carry out much needed reforms such as accis or the country-by-country reporting. my wish for the future is that citizens will seize their immense power to make those who defend the general interest rather than multinationals the majority, so that tax justice is at the heart of the european project and finally becomes a... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, commissioner, the work of the tax3 committee is a strong signal ahead of the european elections. it shows the strong will and ambition of meps to fight money laundering, tax evasion and all financial scandals. but the ball is now in the court of the member states and it is important that they show much greater political ambition in the next term and that parliament's proposals can serve as a basis for future action. among the tasks ahead of us, we must focus on the harmonisation of the corporate tax base, the fight against vat fraud and the taxation of digital companies. but above all, the member states must take their responsibilities and it is essential that we can move to qualified majority voting on taxation-related matters. this is the only condition for greater tax justice.
mr president, the report we are about to adopt brings the final touches to the substantial, consistent and constant work of this parliament during this term of office, both under the impetus of public opinion but also spurred on by several scandals which have tarnished this term of office. it is also, no doubt, a roadmap for the next european parliament, as it contains useful recommendations, including the one we hope to include on the creation of a permanent subcommittee. it can lead to agreements, the banning or calling for the banning of golden visas or the congratulating of what has happened in terms of coordinating the fight against money laundering in europe. but we also need to do better inside the european union and, as others have said before me, we need to call a spade a spade. there are countries in the european union which are tax havens. we must face this reality. in the same way, we need to move towards a corporate tax, with a minimum rate of... (the president withdrew the floor)
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the biannual change from wintertime to summertime clearly no longer has a purpose. the energy savings originally claimed are no longer quantifiable and the negative effects of regular change are no longer to be proved. it should be noted that it is mainly the change from wintertime to summertime which causes the most serious inconvenience. it also appears that if this summer choice were endorsed by some countries, these discomforts would persist with serious consequences for human, animal and plant physiology. but the heart of this dossier is, as always, the concern for the stability of the great european economic market, the alpha and omega of market values. it is clear that the end of the time changes is a necessity which must be accompanied by real, stable and sustainable coordination. but, once again, by legitimately leaving it to each member state to determine its own daily schedules, the european union is opening the door to difficulties which only europe can create when it builds and destroys in areas where it would have been well advised not to venture. in its desire to interfere in all aspects of the daily lives of europeans, always in the name of their well-being, brussels europe has built brakes. when the facts prove that there was no reason to impose certain constraints, then lifting them becomes a real headache. let this be a lesson to you. let us stop the unrestrained production of texts, which are anything but liberating. let's change the name of europe.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, energy is essential to the functioning of our businesses, to the lives of individuals and to travel, and is by its very nature one of the main strategic policies of a state. while we believe that cooperation between member states in the energy field is necessary and desirable, national sovereignty in this highly strategic area is not negotiable. behind the stated objective of combating climate change and protecting consumers, the commission's ambition is to create a large european electricity market where national logic will have to be overridden by its own will. the principles of increasing our cross-border trade, of managing our peaks and troughs in electricity consumption in cooperation with our neighbouring countries, of integrating renewable energy produced by consumers or of adapting our means of production to new technologies are, in themselves, positive. however, these are steps that member states have naturally taken among themselves and in their territories for decades. the commission's dogmatic intention is to impose measures by ideology which will kill any form of energy sovereignty and national initiative, both on technical standardization for electrical interconnections and on the management of flows between neighbouring countries. the emphasis must be on free cooperation between states, not on gradual submission to arbitrary and ideological decisions emanating from the commission and its agencies. the commission also makes clear its intention to liberalize the energy market completely. it should be remembered that the vast majority of examples of extra-european liberalisation and excessive privatisation of electricity markets have ended in costly and bitter failures. each of the four texts in this package is a further step towards the construction of the european electricity market and the dispossession of the member states of their energy sovereignty, but also of their diplomatic sovereignty. here, two visions are opposed: on the one hand, the ultra-liberal vision of the commission and its accomplices who dismissed energy as just one market among many others to be internationalised and opened up to competition; on the other hand, our illiberal view of energy as a public good essential to the functioning of the nation and to be managed at its level, with free cooperation between states.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner jourová, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. having joined the european parliament only a year ago, i feel both privileged and responsible to be the rapporteur of such a valuable reform for consumers in all the countries of europe. tomorrow we will make collective action against the illegal practices of large corporations possible. my task was not easy at first. for example, many feared that the reform would lead to abusive, slanderous litigation, used to destabilize a competing company and thus replicate the aberrations of the american system. it won't be because i've taken special care of it. others feared that the text would end up being a catch-all, where it would no longer be just the consumer who would be affected, but the citizen, the individual in all his aspects, who would use this remedy to ask, for example, a company to compensate him on the pretext that it had contributed to the pollution of the air he breathes. it will not be, because that would be - everyone will have recognised it - distorting the spirit of the text, which is intended above all to protect the rights of consumers. in fact, i think i can say that we have struck, in close cooperation with all the fictitious rapporteurs, whom i would like to warmly thank for their excellent spirit, a delicate balance between the need for greater consumer protection on the one hand and the necessary legal certainty for businesses on the other. this text goes even further, since it shows, perhaps for the first time, that both protection and security are best combined. ladies and gentlemen, the fact that this text was adopted a few weeks before the european elections could be a good demonstration that when we work together we make europe useful in practical terms for the daily lives of each of our fellow citizens. the european class action procedure will enable an air passenger, a car buyer or a washing machine owner to bring an action against an illegal practice of their airline, car brand or household appliance. these consumers will have their rights defended by a qualified entity whose funding will be transparent and they will thus obtain redress for their harm. finally, to establish its legitimacy, our european collective action has set out some basic principles. first, this remedy does not replace those already existing in certain states. in line with national legal traditions, it will add to or create new protection in the nine european countries which did not have it until now. second, the consumer must be compensated in full. the qualified entities, which will be merely vehicles for consumers to assert their rights, will not be able to benefit from this. finally, to prevent abuse, we have established the principle that the loser in the case will pay for the proceedings, but we have also established the rule that no one can be compensated twice for the same damage. i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote tomorrow in favour of this reform because it is not the text of any party, ideology or lobby. this directive has one single objective: to better protect the rights of all european citizens.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the european union is a business europe serving the banks and lobbies, whereas it should have been a europe of the people. it now has an opportunity to start making up for it by strengthening consumer protection. the draft directive before us is designed to create a class action at european level, what the americans call a class action. the aim is to enable consumers who have suffered the same damage to come together to defend their interests collectively by bringing a joint action before national courts. there is an urgent need to create this procedure because only a few countries in europe, including france, already have it. the result is that american consumers are much better protected than european consumers. in the dieselgate case, for example, volkswagen paid €22 billion in compensation to its us customers, while it has paid virtually nothing to its european customers. the procedure envisaged by the draft directive will undoubtedly improve the situation because it is wisely designed. it provides that the group action will be presented by non-profit-making associations. the consumer organisations will inform consumers of the possibility of joining their action and the courts will have to make good all the damage they have caused. the draft directive also has the merit of respecting existing national group actions, such as those introduced by the french law of 17 march 2014. it remains to be hoped that this european group action will be more successful than the french group action, which has a catastrophic record because of its excessive procedural burden.
mr. packet, you have appeared among us. would you like to speak now, as an exception?
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members very much for their interventions. indeed, dieselgate was one of the impulses which gave us the strength to come with the proposal because we had a very good reason also to explain to the opponents that we need the possibility for european consumers to go and collectively defend their rights. i could name every member state where there is some case of mass-harm situation. for instance, in spain, the very difficult situation through the unfavourable contracts with banks for mortgages, it covers 60 000 people and i could continue like this. so this is not only dieselgate, it’s only maybe the most visible case. i want to thank you for your approach. again, my thanks to the rapporteur. i believe that your our report will receive the necessary support from the european parliament. and, as for the support of the council, we have to do our best to convince the member states after the elections that this is the necessary step forward to better protect the interests of consumers in the eu and i believe we will get it done.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner jourová said two very important things. the first is that the aim is not to punish anyone, but only to compensate the victims and to make good the damage they have suffered. the second is that our text has taken great care to avoid all the dangers and deviations of american-style class actions. in conclusion, i would like to thank my colleagues, mr swoboda, who, in speaking, showed the full and complete support of my political party, the epp, mr gilles lebreton, for his constructive spirit, and mrs delvaux, who, throughout the discussions, impressed me with her sense of dialogue and her willingness to seek, and above all to find, a compromise. i would like the council to move faster, but you should know that if we are re-elected we will make sure that we continue and, above all, complete this work in the framework of the trilogue. in any case, count on us, count on me to protect european consumers better, i will not let anything go.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 26 march 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the commission statement on recent developments in dieselgate (2019/2670(rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, three and a half years have passed since dieselgate broke out. in this time, we learned that european vehicle manufacturers have violated the eu rules on vehicle pollutant emissions. this has been detrimental in many respects. it has affected the air quality and the health of eu citizens, it has affected the trust of eu consumers in eu industry, and it has affected confidence in the whole eu regulatory framework on vehicles. together with the european parliament and the council, the commission has spared no efforts to put an end to this scandal, to restore confidence and to avoid any repetition in the future. a lot has already been achieved. in may 2018, we put in place a more efficient regulatory framework that guarantees greater independence and transparency of vehicle type-approval. this will inter alia allow for eu fines, eu—wide recalls and eu testing of vehicles. we have also introduced more accurate testing for nox emissions with the real—driving emissions (rde) test procedure. this procedure gives a more realistic picture of actual pollutant emissions on the road, and it also contributes to the effective reduction of these emissions. let me give a simple example. thanks to rde, diesel cars now emit on average 40 mg of nox per km. before rde, these emissions were on average 700 to 800 mg per km in real driving conditions. we now have one of the most effective emission regulatory systems anywhere in the world. the procedure to measure co2 emissions more accurately has also been modernised, with the adoption of the worldwide harmonised light vehicle test procedure (wltp). this allows eu consumers to obtain realistic information on the fuel consumption of vehicles. both rde and wltp are new tests that will be constantly reviewed and adapted where necessary. the commission has also launched eight infringement procedures against member states for a violation of the eu type—approval rules since december 2016. six are still ongoing. they have already resulted in legislative changes and enforcement action in the member states concerned. in february 2018, the commission set up a platform in which member states share the information on recalls of vehicles affected by dieselgate. based on this information, the commission publishes regular updates on the state of play of recalls. so far, the commission has no legal power to impose mandatory recalls. this still remains the responsibility of the member states, which are bound to supervise the manufacturers and ensure that recall measures are effectively implemented. as of 1 september 2020, the new type-approval framework regulation will allow for eu fines, eu-wide recalls and eu testing. for the time being, there is no comprehensive information on the effects of recalls on air quality. what is certain is that there are still about two million cars on european roads that require updating, and many of these cars are being sold to central and eastern europe. we are moving our air quality problems from west to east. some of the new rules put in place by the commission have been challenged before the general court. this is notably the case of one of the commission regulations setting up the rde procedures, and in particular, the so-called conformity factors used in this procedure. these conformity factors are necessary to reflect the statistical uncertainty linked with the new test procedure, as well as the margin of error of the portable measuring equipment. last december, the general court ruled that the commission went beyond its powers when adopting these conformity factors. i want to inform you that the commission has appealed that judgment. germany and hungary also appealed. the commission is convinced that it did not go beyond its powers. these conformity factors are mere technical requirements that have no bearing on the emissions limits set by the co—legislators. of course, at the same time i cannot guarantee what will be the outcome of this appeal. this is why the commission is preparing a proposal, scheduled for adoption in april. the commission will propose to the co-legislators the adoption of those conformity factors. they should also empower the commission to lower the second factor as soon as technical progress allows. we have already done that once. so parliament will now have the opportunity to set the conformity factors together with the council. this is good news for you. to sum up, as acknowledged by the european court of auditors in its recent briefing paper on the eu’s response to the dieselgate scandal: ‘the emissions scandal has accelerated many legislative changes to the eu system of vehicle emissions checks’. the european court of auditors also underlined that more could be done, and that it would take some time before the legislative changes have an impact on air quality. because deeds are better than words, together with the help of member states, the commission has prepared a ‘roadmap towards clean vehicles’. it sets out benchmarks and tools for making sure that we will never have to go through a similar story again. the commission presented the roadmap on monday, 18 march 2019, at the automotive industry forum in craiova. it demonstrates what the commission is committed to. the commission will ensure that the commitments made in the roadmap are fulfilled, and it expects nothing less from the industry and the member states. let me also finish on a more positive note. we need to look at the future, and we spare no effort in this respect. we already have ambitious targets for co2 reduction. we are about to adopt a major initiative to increase road safety and save lives, the general safety regulation, and we have to prepare for the revolution of connected and automated vehicles.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, first of all, i regret that it is not mrs bieńkowska who is before us to speak about this famous compliance factor, since it is with her that we have constantly debated and i am extremely surprised by your speech, very satisfied, about the actions that would have been put in place by the commission since the diesel scandal. first of all, let us return to the very elastic conformity factor applied by the commission in the package on real-world testing, which was nevertheless annulled by the court of justice, a decision which, unfortunately, was contested both by some states and by the commission. the court annulled the implementing act because that compliance factor was contrary to the euro vi standards on nitrogen dioxide values, the standards which determine vehicle emission thresholds. however, on 20 february, when she appeared before the committee on transport and tourism, before the emis committee, mrs bieńkowska announced that the commission would bring back the same compliance factor, exceeding the legal reference of 110% and then 50% by 2021. i can't hide my amazement at this. giving the manufacturers the right to pollute with such a margin of tolerance is an insult to this parliament and, above all, seriously endangers the air we breathe. if the commission makes such a proposal, we will have no choice but to reject it. manufacturers must take responsibility and recall all vehicles that do not comply with the euro vi standard. i am bitterly disappointed that the commission is trying to buy time by entering into a legal battle with the court of justice. the time gained for the commission is time lost for the planet, and we have not a second to lose and we have no alternative planet. millions of european citizens take to the streets every week to demand that we, the policy-makers, act against pollution with the utmost urgency. the situation is particularly critical for the inhabitants of large european cities who are suffocated by these nitrogen dioxide emissions, but it is not just nitrogen dioxide. who has set a fine particulate threshold of no more than three days a year. did you know that in paris, we're already 19 days behind? the year 2019 will probably be the worst year on air pollution, but this is not new and there is still no follow-up to the infringement procedures initiated by the commission against states, either by the states or by the commission.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is almost four years since the dieselgate scandal broke. in total, more than 30 million diesel vehicles were polluting beyond the permitted limit. this parliament itself has set up a committee of inquiry, made recommendations, all of which have not been answered. and now we suffer air pollution without action, we leave garbage cars on our roads, we leave consumers confused without repair. and the commission, rather than responding to these emergencies, prefers to tell the manufacturer: you do not know how to comply with the standards, it is not a big deal, keep on polluting. but we are dreaming! what we are asking is that lessons be learned from dieselgate and our recommendations be implemented. we have chosen the health of the citizens over the interests of the manufacturers. who are you driving for? so, no more talk, now let's get down to business!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 28 march 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
thank you for that advice, mr. gerbrandy. that is what we are going to ask the commission to do.
the agenda calls for a debate on the report by mr michał boni, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the labelling of tyres with respect to fuel efficiency and other essential parameters and repealing regulation (ec) no 1222/2009 (com (2018) 0296 c8-0190/2018 2018/0148 (cod)) (a8-0086/2019).
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr boni, for his listening and openness. however, in my view, this is not the case. we have become too accustomed, here and in the commission, to talking about consumers, consumers, always consumers and rarely citizens. i also want to speak about citizens, and in particular responsible citizens. so, of course, this labelling report may not save the world's face, but it is a first step towards transparency, and that is a good thing. but it's important not to miss the train. you have spoken about it, commissioner: every year, about 300 000 tonnes of micro-plastics are dumped on the roads and playgrounds of our children in the european union. the report does not answer that question. in our amendments we are calling for real abrasion tests, to inform and protect citizens, and for the manufacture of tyres which are less polluting and more energy efficient. finally, because we cannot ignore what comes from outside, we ask for the traceability of the rubber used and we require that it comes from sustainable forests, free of pesticides that pollute groundwater, for example.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 26 march 2019.
the agenda calls for one-minute speeches on important political issues (rule 163).
this item has been closed.
the committee on culture and education has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. madam president, everything has been said about the benefits of this text and i will not go into it at length. in truth, i think there is only one question: what does this vote for europe mean? europe has first made a name for itself by being at the forefront of digital regulation and has now become a global model in this field. today, the choice is truly clear: either we confirm our leadership position or we relinquish it altogether. we know that a trilogue agreement is not a text to the letter. it's all or nothing. there is no longer any leap forward and to sabotage this agreement would be to serve the interests of the gafa (web giants) first and foremost, because only they would benefit. it would not benefit the citizens, the authors or the smes, but simply the gafa. what citizens want today is an internet that is fair, where platforms are held accountable, where authors are paid, where everyday uses are protected. that is exactly what this text says and the vote this afternoon really asks only one question: yes or no, do the platforms have a responsibility towards our society? this is the only question which colleagues will have to answer in a responsible and conscientious manner. my answer and that of the europeans is a firm and definitive 'yes'.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, this morning is a historic moment, as for the first time on a continent, a parliamentary assembly is trying to rebalance the relationship between gafa and those who feed it, i.e. creators and the press. the creation economy, which generates €530 billion annually and employs 7.2 million workers in europe, is seriously threatened by the unfairness of these financial ratios. but there is at least as serious, if not more immediately dangerous, the press economy is collapsing in pieces and, so far, no one knows how to fix it. the press, ladies and gentlemen, the press, madam president, is the basis of democracy. when there is no free press, when there are no journalists on google, wikipedia, youtube, or anywhere else, you will have no information. you'll have passions and rumors like the ones we've been having for the past several months. this text is the only chance for european creators, press companies and journalists to rebalance the situation in their favour and protect their future. that is why we must vote on this text and vote on it as a whole, rejecting all the amendments. we must take this text as a whole, because it is only a first step. it's gonna take more than that to balance this case. we hear about censorship, we hear about filtering, we hear about wikipedia. wikipedia is protected in the text, there's no censorship, there's no filtering, and why did these ideas get into this chamber? because for the first time in 15 years of my tenure here, we have been bombarded like ordinary political, intellectual, cultural prisoners by financial behemoths who are going to take over our entire business. we must vote on this text as a whole, otherwise it will be an intellectual munich, with very serious consequences for the future of the european continent.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, today we are voting on the copyright directive: it will be a historic day for creativity in europe or, on the contrary, a dark day for culture. the text presented here is the result of almost three years of meticulous work, and its content is nothing like all the fake news and manipulation orchestrated by the giants of silicon valley. on the contrary, the text ensures a balance between the interests of the creators and those of the users. these users will have stronger rights, especially against online platforms that too often remove their content, even though it is legal. this text is fundamental for our artists, they have the right to a fair and equitable remuneration from these platforms that enrich themselves through their works. malraux said that culture is not inherited, it is conquered, and that has never been more true. so, as a fictional rapporteur, i say yes to culture, yes to the rights of our authors, creators, publishers and artists.
madam president, this directive is the result of two and a half years of hard work and is awaited by the whole of european culture: artists, authors, journalists, producers, publishers, researchers. but it is also expected by users and consumers because it will bring legal certainty and take new uses out of the platforms' arbitrariness. it is also proof that europe is able to assert its sovereignty in the face of companies that have become monstrous not only in their size but also in their practices of plundering our personal data, our private lives, our time, but also, in this case, the work of european authors and artists. how can we accept that work is no longer profitable because it is digital? on the contrary, all work deserves a wage! as for their aggressive and lying lobbying practices, we can no longer turn a blind eye to the multiple violations of our transparency rules, to the threats we have received, to the funding, at least obscure, of a number of platforms and organizations. so i hope that this afternoon's vote will mark the first act in europe's victorious fight against predatory ultra-liberalism and for european culture.
madam president, it is time to legislate to force the big north american digital companies to give back to creators, publishers and journalists the value they steal from them to feed their networks in order to grab the advertising money they take from the media and the press. the pressures and appetites of the digital giants are understandable when we consider that creation in the european union, as mr cavada has just mentioned, represents €536 billion a year. there are now more people working in the creative and cultural sectors than in the automotive and telecommunications sectors combined. what we are discussing here with the vote on the directive on copyright and related rights is cultural diversity and pluralism. the directive creates a balanced legal framework that obliges the major platforms to respect creators and journalists, while providing users with legal certainty that has not existed before. it guarantees the right to share and promotes access to knowledge for all, while promoting the renewal of creation by protecting it. it is the creation and production of content that must be defended, not piracy, and this is the purpose of this directive.
the commission has already taken action on this. madam president, i will be very brief, i will ask my colleague who is absolutely convinced of the need to leave the european union, why does he himself insist on coming here and sitting when it hurts him so much to be there?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the revision of these funds is a major issue for our territories. for the projects financed to benefit millions of european citizens, funds must be managed efficiently and as closely as possible to the populations and thus the regions. it is also essential that local authorities have a certain degree of flexibility, particularly in transport. as rapporteur for the committee on transport and tourism, i wanted to go back to the commission's initial idea to exclude from the scope of application investments in the purchase of trains or in airport infrastructure. transport is at the crossroads of three pillars: economic development, social cohesion and just ecological transition. investing in sustainable mobility is a full contribution to our sustainable development goals. the regions must be allowed to finance transport infrastructure in an environmentally friendly way. as for the airports which have been the subject of intense discussions in this house, i simply call for common sense: my political family has tabled amendments to allow investment in old airports, on the strict condition that they contribute to improving the environmental balance. this is a concrete step in the fight against climate change.
mr president, for many regions of europe, the erdf funds are an island of budgetary resources in an ocean of austerity. in the less developed regions, these funds remain essential to support investment. the position of the outermost regions, which is that of our parliament, is to reject the reduction proposed by the european commission. for mayotte, we will restore it to its rightful place in relation to the previous programming. as regards cofinancing, while the commission proposes to reduce it to 70%, we propose to reduce it to 85%. i think that after the adoption of the european commission's renewed strategy for the outermost regions, it is impossible for the commission not to join us in our uncompromising defence of the outermost regions.
mr president, i also join my colleagues in praising the work done by our rapporteur. the text of our regi committee seems to me to be relevant in more than one way. it contributes, among other things, to re-regionalizing and making erdf and cohesion funds more flexible in order to achieve greater efficiency, and above all to eliminating inequalities between territories. i also welcome the proposals which maintain the thematic concentration at regional level. i hope this will enable us to promote economic, social and territorial cohesion as closely as possible to the needs of our regions and the expectations of our citizens. as an elected representative of the french outermost regions, i welcome measures which maintain or improve the special features of the outermost regions, which are indispensable when we know that the erdf is one of the main means of financing infrastructure, mobility and smes in the outermost regions. finally, ladies and gentlemen, i would ask you to act in accordance with our thematic and environmental objectives by supporting the amendments tabled by our group.
member of the commission. – mr president, this is a great moment for me because, after quite a long time, we are coming to the end of the legislative process on these two proposals which are of great added value for eu consumers and business. i am not so sure about twins. i would rather speak about two sisters. in my language ‘directive’ is ‘she’. one sister proved to be rather sporty and quite modern and the other one became fatter and fatter because she also swallowed the offline shopping – not only online – and she proved not to be easy to move in the process. but after all, we managed and it was thanks to the very good cooperation of the co—legislators and of course my special thanks go to ms gebhardt, mr arimont and mr voss, who know very well that we went through some dramatic moments and some moments of anxiety that there was no easy result which would fulfil the purpose. but here we are. i think that the result is very good. we have all worked towards one common goal: ensuring effective protection for consumers, while at the same time removing barriers to the digital single market. for the first time, european consumers and businesses will be able to rely on largely harmonised rules, specifically designed for the supply of digital content and digital services. moreover, the current sales rules are modernised with the specific regulation of smart goods. this will cover a rapidly growing market of a wide variety of products, ranging from smartphones and laptops to connected toys and smart home systems. the new rules will also ensure that consumers are adequately protected and more confident when buying smart goods across the eu. this includes receiving updates for digital elements that are necessary for a satisfactory use of the product. for businesses, the two proposals are an important step forward in terms of legal certainty. the digital content proposal achieves a very high degree of harmonisation and prevents legal fragmentation, while the sale of goods proposal also provides for fully harmonised conformity criteria and consumer remedies throughout the eu. this will decrease the costs of having to adjust to different national laws. we have promised european consumers and businesses a modern and coherent set of contract rules for their everyday transactions and you are about to deliver this to them. i see many beautiful young people in the audience. i am sure that most of them go online for their shopping so i think i have a good message for the consumers who are also sitting here with us that there should be no bad surprises when you go shopping online from a different member state because there are going to be highly harmonised contract tools on the digital single market. so my message is: enjoy your shopping, don’t worry, be happy and be aware that the rules will work for your greater protection.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the important work they have done on this issue, on these two directives, and in particular my colleague evelyne gebhardt, who has shown a great deal of conviction on this issue. these two texts are a real step forward for european citizens and businesses. they will enable us to update our consumer rules to take account of the growth of online commerce, but also to take account of new uses and new services. i welcome the fact that we have reached an agreement which will ensure that citizens can easily understand these rules by bringing the rules on the sale of goods into line with the rules on the supply of digital content. it is also quite positive that we cover the contents of the physical goods. it would have been incomprehensible to protect the consumer only for material goods, without concern for the embedded software that ensures their proper functioning. as regards the text on digital content, this is a particularly important directive because it will harmonise european rules in an area where, in some cases, no national rules yet exist. we must also welcome the fact that we have reached an agreement which will provide a uniform european framework for this growing sector. we also wanted to take account of the reality of consumer behaviour, by including in the text contracts concluded against payment, but also contracts concluded by the collection of personal data. today, much of the interaction that takes place online is based on these types of exchanges and it was essential to bring them within the scope of the text. these two texts therefore represent a step forward towards a genuine digital single market protecting consumers. this is the europe we are fighting for.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, e-commerce has grown considerably with the rise of new technologies and the internet, and is becoming a key driver of development for businesses, especially smes, and a guarantee of new opportunities for consumers. but it has also generated serious distortions of competition with the advent of internet behemoths like gafa and anti-competitive practices, which have fed on the lack of adequate regulatory defenses. the text thus addressed the current economic challenge of consumer protection by giving a clear definition of digital content, guaranteeing consumers that their purchases are in conformity with the contract, regulating online commercial practices, and introducing commercial guarantees of sustainability that should mechanically encourage consumers and producers to consume and produce less, but better. in addition, the balance of the french law on contractual aspects between sellers and consumers has finally been respected, and this is good news. unfortunately, the perennial ideological refrain about the abolition of frontiers and the obstacles to the single market is, on the other hand, quite superfluous in the current economic and social context.
mr president, protecting authors and opposing gafam is not opposing small platforms, against the very advice of the un, it is not being deaf to the lives of academics and millions of citizens across europe who are concerned about the freedom of the internet. because, despite progress in protecting creators, freedom of expression and the free sharing of knowledge are threatened by the massive filtering of content that this directive is preparing, a text that i consider to be liberticidal and that induces a major cultural censorship. this directive is outdated, its wheels are worn by a last century's design of the internet. let's not get the fight wrong, let's not get the target wrong, let's invent a new internet that really protects creation and really taxes gafam at its core.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, as every year, the committee on fisheries has delivered its opinion on the discharge to the general budget of the union. this year, the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2017 did not make any particular comment on the dg mare's activity report. however, the committee on fisheries wants the court of auditors to present a separate error rate for fisheries from the environmental, rural development and health error rates, and not in an aggregated form. this will allow a more accurate assessment of financial management. the committee on fisheries would also like to point out that the member states' lack of use of the emff, the european maritime and fisheries fund, is particularly worrying.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in 2017 we made remarkable progress. i am thinking in particular of the increased visibility of the european parliament's work on the internet, the efforts to make the management of the general expenses envelope more transparent, the revision of the rules on visitors, the more frequent use of teleworking for officials, the occupational security guaranteed to british parliament officials and the progressive strengthening of the rights of trainees of members. however, much remains to be done. first, allowing european political parties to receive funding from private companies is not acceptable. how could a member of the envi committee, for example, belong to a political party subsidised by the agrochemical giant monsanto-bayer? to put an end to this practice, i tabled an amendment on behalf of the socialist and democratic group calling for the prohibition of such subsidies. i hope that this amendment no 30 will be supported by all the political groups when it is voted on in the plenary this evening. secondly, reluctance to re-establish a single anti-harassment committee is not the best way to build genuine trust among the members of our institution. we have also tabled an amendment with inès ayala sender, the greens and the gue. that is my point, mr president.
mr president, i would like to refer to what i continue to call the selmayr case and read to you article 11a of the staff regulations, which provides that 'an official shall not, in the performance of his duties, deal with any matter in which he has, directly or indirectly, a personal interest'. as we all know, mr selmayr's appointment as secretary-general of the european commission was controversial, to say the least. we have put a number of questions on this appointment here and on 24 march 2018 mr juncker's office called a meeting to draft the answers to these questions, with the participation of mr selmayr. as our assembly did not find these answers satisfactory, we asked a new set of 61 questions, following which a new meeting was held on 2 april 2018, in which mr selmayr again participated. we must therefore take action and intervene seriously in the field of control. i propose, on the one hand, that mr juncker come and explain these practices to the conference of presidents, and, on the other hand, that a committee of inquiry be set up within our institution in order to decide and clarify this matter. in the meantime, mr president, i propose that mr selmayr be, if not dismissed, at least suspended from office, because the case is serious from the point of view of compliance with the rules of our institutions' internal standards.
in writing. the mission of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union is closely linked to the fundamental principle of multilingualism, as set out in regulation 1/1958. yet, despite the status of 24 european languages as official languages and the working languages of german, french and english, it is the latter that seems to be the dominant language at the time of the uk's departure. there are calls for it to be established as the sole language of business. he is therefore pleased that the translation centre is diligently and efficiently carrying out its duties, as evidenced by its accounting records. however, it is regrettable that the report contains many reservations, particularly concerning the incompleteness of the declarations of interests. other points that cannot be ignored are the insufficient independence of the accountant and the lack of satisfactory performance indicators. the long-term prospects are more worrying, given the centre's heavy dependence on the european union intellectual property office. on the other hand, the many achievements of the european asylum support office are a clear testimony to the chasm of european migration policy.
mr president, the president has been asked to declare certain parts of this report inadmissible. he refused to take a position but then, quite exceptionally, i co-signed with markus ferber a number of deletion amendments. i ask my group to follow this advice, which is not a political problem but a question of competence, which could not be settled between the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on budgetary control. the content of these paragraphs concerns substantive judgments on the functioning of the single resolution fund or the stability pact, which are not the responsibility of the court of auditors or the committee on budgetary control, but of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i therefore ask my group to follow the amendments co-signed by the epp group and the s&d group, as opposed to the voting lists which are distributed.
mr president, as a point of order, i am looking at the member who is in the 1985 seat, mr tarabella, i believe, and when it came to voting with raised hands on the previous report, the ayala sender report, i did not understand what he was voting on because he was voting both for and against. so, mr. president, how did you do the counting?
mr president, if i understand correctly, since there is an audience, voters and the press, for mr tarabella the european parliament is a place of humour, sketches and jokes. (protests) (various movements)
member of the commission. – mr president, i am glad to be here today as we bring to a successful conclusion the legislation setting co2 emission standards for new cars and vans for the period post-2020. the agreement reached by parliament and the council is an important achievement and – together with the legislation on heavy-duty vehicles – marks the completion of a comprehensive legislative framework on climate and clean energy for 2030. this has been possible thanks to the excellent work and constructive efforts of the negotiators from both institutions. in particular, i would like to warmly thank the rapporteur ms dalli for her leadership on this challenging file. it required a lot of work and dedication from her side to bring together the different views and to lead successfully the negotiations. i would like also to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their crucial role in these negotiations. this agreement is both ambitious and balanced. it is a major step forward in regulating co2 emissions from cars and vans. its main elements for new cars: the european union fleet-wide average co2 emissions will have to be 37.5% lower in 2030, compared to 2021, and 31% for new vans. intermediate reduction targets of 15% for 2025 for both cars and vans will ensure that investments are already kick-started now. an innovative and technology-neutral incentive system will stimulate manufacturers to deploy more zero- and low-emission vehicles in the next decade, and a strong governance system will make sure that emission reductions occur in reality, not only in the laboratory. a comprehensive review in 2023 will evaluate the effectiveness of the legislation. this new legislation puts the road transport sector on a clear pathway towards clean mobility, and the broader transition to a climate-neutral economy. let me highlight its main benefits. the targets agreed, together with the targets agreed for heavy-duty vehicles, will lead to a 24% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from road transport in 2030 compared to 2005. this will help member states to reach their binding targets under the effort sharing regulation and for the european union to deliver its commitments under the paris agreement. citizens will benefit from cleaner air as the result of the new legislation, and consumers will also benefit economically as they are projected to save around eur 1 100 over the lifetime of an average new car bought in 2030, and nearly eur 4 000 for an average van. the legislation will also help to modernise the european union economy, and the automotive sector in particular, to channel investments and strengthen innovation for clean vehicle technologies. the incentive system for zero- and low-emission vehicles will reward the front-runners in developing such vehicles. as a result of this legislation, around 35 million zero- and low-emission vehicles are projected to be driving on the road, compared to a bit more than one million today. the new regulation is also projected to have positive impacts on the overall economy, creating around 60 000 jobs and more, around 80 000, if batteries are produced in the european union. in this context, the battery alliance was launched to create a sustainable and competitive battery value chain in europe. this is a market with huge opportunities for economic growth and job creation. at the same time, the legislation allows for a smooth, gradual and realistic transition to zero-emission vehicles. in 2030, a very large majority of new vehicles – around 87% – will still have an internal combustion engine, as plug-in hybrid vehicles will play an important role. this will give sufficient time to undertake the necessary investments to re—skill and up—skill the workers in the conventional vehicles supply chain. a clear signal is also provided for investors in refuelling and recharging infrastructure. in particular, by 2030, around 4.5 million public charging points will have to be operational. this represents a substantial increase, requiring significant investments, including at local, regional, national and european union levels. let me conclude by inviting you to support this ambitious and balanced agreement when voted tomorrow. i would also take the opportunity to inform the members of this house that the commission has tabled a statement concerning the review provisions of the regulation to accompany its full support for the overall agreement. this will put europe on track towards the necessary transition towards clean mobility, and i thank all of you for your support.
the committee on transport and tourism has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is a bit of a joke: the chairman of the car manufacturers' lobby, mr tavares, has called us, the european legislators, amateurs because we want to reduce co2 emissions from cars in europe. amateurs, because we hear the young people marching for the climate, who expect us to act responsibly to protect future generations. transport accounts for 30% of co2 emissions in europe, the majority of which comes from road transport. here we are setting a reduction of 37.5 per cent for cars and light vehicles, not for tomorrow, but for 2030. anyone who delays the fight against global warming is a climate sceptic. so i say to mr tavares, if he wants to be on the right side of history, he should invest now to produce low-emission cars as soon as possible because it's good for the climate and it's good for jobs.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, in the days of france, algeria was paradise! is that quote from a lieutenant in french algeria? no, i'm not worried. it was one of the main leaders of algerian independence, hocine aït ahmed, who said it, and it therefore has even more meaning today. i hear some fine words in this house which is not in favour of a democratic transition. but what is the european union going to do? what can she do in this process? algeria is not a member of europe, at least not yet. for us, any question relating to algeria remains the sole responsibility of the algerian people who wanted its independence, but whose leaders have proved incapable of taking it on for 57 years. as such, the place of those who are demonstrating, especially in paris and elsewhere, about current events should be in algeria and nowhere else. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we therefore have only one imperative: current events must not justify any further immigration.
madam president, commissioner, 'the heart of algeria is beating again' is one of the slogans that has been heard in the streets of algeria for more than a month. i would like to pay tribute to the algerian people for their courage and determination. the organisation of these peaceful and exemplary demonstrations commands the admiration of all. such a mobilisation of all generations and in all regions deserves more than just regime reform, it must change. obviously, this transition cannot be led by those who led the country into such a situation. the european union must rise to the challenge and not give the algerian people the impression that we have not understood the depth of their aspirations. "the future belongs to us" is another slogan carried by the protesters. the algerian people demonstrate this every day with strength and dignity in their fight for a free and democratic algeria, and this is a beautiful message of hope for the algerian youth.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what you refuse the crimeans, you grant to the kosovars. you denounce the illegal occupation of crimea but you support the illegal occupation of kosovo. you denounce the russians but you approve of nato's illegal war against yugoslavia, the twentieth anniversary of which we are commemorating today. you denounce the referendum in crimea but you support the illegal declaration of independence of kosovo, a mafia entity, in 2008, which violated security council resolution 1244. you preach the rule of law but you support the coup d'état in kiev, which was a violent coup d'état - the maidan - teleguided by the united states. unlike in kosovo and maidan, not a single shot was fired in crimea. what you hate about the crimeans is their patriotic desire to reintegrate their historical homeland, russia. by denying them this right, you are doing the same as the soviet dictator khrushchev who, by an illegal stroke of the pen, also gave crimea to the ukrainian soviet republic. your stateless policy is that of the bolsheviks in 1954! (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is 'blue card'. i will not respond to such low-level polemics. there have been investigations, so all this has been done in an absolutely regular way, at interest rates which, incidentally, are 6%, well above the interest rates that a european bank would grant. what is scandalous is that in europe a party, the leading opposition party, cannot find any bank to finance it. this is outrageous, and this is bolshevik methods! (the speaker agrees to answer a question by mr glinne (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is 'blue card'. the policy i support, my dear colleague, is the policy of france. i'm sorry, look at the position of france during its history! look how general de gaulle is the first to visit stalin's russia! look at how all our heads of state have had privileged relations with russia! look at what president macron is doing, despite sometimes being in a difficult position! france's policy has always been one of balance, independence and sovereignty. and i hope it stays that way!
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the arab spring was not a spring but a winter, a long winter of death and destruction. it was an islamic winter, and the area was hard to get out of. if today we see some buds, it is because the islamic revolutionaries were defeated by the army in egypt or by the russians and iranians in syria. all this has been done against the will of the european union. supported by the americans and the europeans, the muslim brotherhood in egypt and tunisia, the salafists in syria, the two together in libya have sown destruction and violence. the region is in chaos. the benifei report claims that these events were democratic. they were actually remote controlled like the colour revolutions in eastern europe. the solution for the region is not to be found in an off-the-shelf democratization or in an abstract human rights system, but on the contrary in the consolidation of state power, the only guarantee of peace stability.
mr president, 'god laughs at men who complain of the effects of things they cherish.' i am reminded of this quote by bossuet when i see the defeated mines of the europeanists five years after the arab revolutions you called the 'springs'. with the complicity of the obama administration, you have unleashed wars in syria and libya, the consequences of which have been catastrophic, from the rise of islamic terrorism to the flood of migration we are experiencing today. the sarkozy and hollande will one day have to answer to the people of europe, particularly in the case of france. the european union has marginalised itself in the arab world by supporting the losers in syria and egypt and by contributing, always in the name of democratic renewal, to the collapse of libya, with the consequences we all know. the european union will have demonstrated its true function more than ever: to be the substitute for globalism, whose people must first of all suffer the consequences of its harmful and unsatisfactory policies. the only solution for these peoples and the whole region will be the sovereignty of the restored states.
madam president, emmanuel macron has a good game of denouncing the naivety of the europeans in trade matters at a press conference. this burst of lucidity did not prevent him from signing the conclusions of the last european council, even though the text advocated everything and its opposite. it mentions in particular the fact that the european union must protect its interests against unfair practices by third countries. it even calls for full use of 'trade defence instruments'. very well, except that the same document explicitly calls for the conclusion of new free trade agreements, while the european council reiterates its commitment to an open trading system and wishes to 'resist all forms of protectionism', even european protectionism. that's a laughingstock for the americans and the chinese, who are buying up our companies at a discount. we must put an end to this vast market of dupes which puts the nations of europe between the american hammer and the chinese anvil. we are caught up in the old dogmas of free movement of capital and goods, free and undistorted competition. the european union is not a protected area, but a playground for the united states or china, which have no problem defending their interests and protecting their economies.
madam president, i shall not dwell on the question of brexit, which has already been discussed at length. brexit holds the union hostage and prevents it from building its future. we have been clear from the start about what a real political crisis in britain is. the citizens and businesses concerned are tired of these delays. it's time to settle this matter quickly. so, fortunately, the council still looked at growth and the industrial future of the union, with a particular focus on artificial intelligence. we already need to catch up on digital to preserve europeans' place in the economy of tomorrow, as china has become a leading player in the face of which an urgent need for union is felt. i welcome the leading role played by france in this area. the council has adopted a firmer tone, but we know that divisions are still evident. and i heard president juncker tell us that europe should not be a bargain but an open one. on the other hand, there are insufficient commitments on climate, whereas parliament made ambitious proposals for 2050. europe is therefore on a slippery slope, and our member states seem deaf to the urgency. when's the wake-up call?
the agenda calls for the joint discussion of: the report by merja kyllönen, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on specific control requirements and rules for the secondment of drivers in the road transport sector (com (2017) 0278 c8-0170/2017 2017/0121 (cod)) (a8-0206/2018); the report by wim van de camp, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on maximum daily and weekly driving times, maximum daily and weekly breaks and rest periods and location by means of tachographs (com (2017) 0277 c8-0167/2017 2017/0122 (cod)) (a8-0205/2018); and the report by ismail ertug, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on road transport sector and adaptations to developments in the road transport sector (com (2017) 0284 (cod)) (com (2017) 0208 (cod)).
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have been working for months to improve the working conditions of road transport workers, who have been held hostage by some in the name of their country's interests. we are talking about women and men who sometimes work for extremely long, arduous periods, without seeing their families, sleeping in poorly maintained car parks and others would still like them to sleep in their cabins. the social dumping organised by the large groups in the sector exploits their workforce to exhaustion, with terrible consequences for road safety. a driver who is tired on our roads is a threat to himself, to his cargo, but also to all other road users. we must refuse to support in this parliament the exploitation of workers in the sector, which is advocated by the european commission. and there are a number of us in this room who reject what is simply the legislation of a modern form of slavery on our roads. equal rights and decent working conditions must be enjoyed by everyone in the european union. we do not want second-class workers, and that is why we continue to fight for the posting of all workers, not just those who are assigned to a specific job. we don't want exhausted drivers on the road because it puts other people's lives at risk. we therefore reject any derogation from the weekly rest ban in the cabin. we do not want any more social jungles open to all winds, or trucks returning empty to their bases. that is why we will fight to keep cabotage regulated. ladies and gentlemen, the european union must keep its promises. everyone wants a social europe, let's get on with it! we now ask that everyone take responsibility. everyone has to do the job, not look at the interests of these countries or his own country. we're here to guarantee what? the correct application of the rules in force in europe.
the commission has already taken action on this. i do not accept that my powers in the committee on transport are called into question in this parliament. i am not blaming you, not least because the fact is that your group really wants to damage the european project, and as president of the commission i will do everything to improve the working conditions of employees. i tell you face to face, i don't know who you think you are to judge quality, especially my presidency, but i will not accept it.
we are not in a debate with questions in the form of blue cards and we are taking up the speaking time.
i have seen the requests for blue cards but we are very late and we are continuing the interviews.
madam president, the reforms of cabotage, the posting of drivers and working time in this 'mobility' package show us one thing: the european union is as social as the socialist republics of eastern europe were democratic. the legislative obstruction of the last few hours, which marks the end of almost two years of deaf dialogue, once again demonstrates the union's real inability to improve the lot of its workers. it also shows how antagonistic the economic interests of the member countries are. the union, which has been too eager to expand and impose at all costs, out of pure ideology and pride, a single market without any prior ambition, only enriches the profiteers by creating the conditions for the replacement of workers who are paid decently by workers who are exploited. the beneficiaries, as we have just seen, are ready to do anything to ensure that this system continues. if the union does not radically change its paradigm, the peoples will break away. clearly, the british example was not enough. let us assume that the next european elections will be a second and, perhaps, a final warning.
madam president, i too am angry because the debate has been obstructed in the last few hours, just as there has been irregularity in the debate in recent months and we have not had a shared approach between the members of the european parliament, the european union and the road hauliers. that is why today, on the mobility package, we have a compromise that is not up to par and we have vices and holes that cause anger, a lot of anger. we are looking at the future of three million road users and we must find a solution because we have to regulate social dumping, we have to go to the detachment on the first day, and we have to stop with the motorway areas, the road users themselves are asking for it. i saw truck drivers, but i also saw the truck drivers' unions, who also ask for a mobility package. that is why i am in favour of a vote in this parliament, because tomorrow the balance of power could be less favourable to them. i am also in favour of the vote being held in the most complete transparency and of the irregularities being stopped. finally, i am in favour of the cabotage text being examined first because it is the only text that was voted on in committee. i am finally in favour of democracy taking full effect.
madam president, the work we are doing and the discussion we have this morning concerns the free movement of services and the free movement of workers, but also, for everything outside international transport, the situation of posted workers. we have a general directive on the supervision of posted work. and, as mrs jongerius has just said, there cannot be two categories of posted workers in road haulage companies: those who receive a salary and social protection of a high quality and those who receive reduced benefits. it is the foundation of social europe. we must regulate international transport and cabotage. we must avoid national retreat and decisions which would break up europe and we must reduce road transport legislation to 2.5 tonnes. this is the europe of the citizens, this is the europe of the workers, this is the foundation of europe on which we must work.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next partsession. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. this package we are working on will have a lasting impact on the daily lives of millions of truck drivers. this is a sensitive issue which we must take seriously. we have been debating this for two years. this is the last chance for this parliament to update the standards governing the road transport market and, above all, the rights of drivers. these are millions of workers who are all too often considered second-class workers. some in this assembly want to degrade their working conditions even further. the 45 hours of weekly rest in the cabin should be completely banned in the union. the court of justice has declared this practice contrary to our european standards. we have a historic opportunity, perhaps the only one, to build social europe. i call on this parliament to adopt these three texts once and for all and finally to lay the foundations for a europe that protects, the one i have been wishing for for years. this is the condition for our peoples' accession to the european project.
mr president, it is entirely legitimate for the european union to devote part of its external budget to the stabilization and development of neighbouring countries, particularly the balkans. our french delegation, however, abstained on this report, expressing reservations on two points concerning the so-called ipa iii proposal. on the one hand, the funds for turkey, a non-european regional power, seem too large to us, even though the subjects of common concern, such as migration, are the subject of specific financial agreements. the very name of this budget, the 'pre-accession instrument', is also a source of very harmful confusion. enlargement is a political process for which there is no unanimity, it is not a mechanical and financial process. some countries receiving funds, the so-called pre-accession countries, are not even candidate countries. it would therefore be much more appropriate to reclassify this financial instrument and to disconnect it clearly from the issue of enlargement.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the industrial revolution of the 19th century and the all-powerful chemists of the next two centuries brought real progress in our daily lives. unfortunately, this progress has suffered greatly from the insane productivity imposed by globalisation. the situation is critical with regard to single-use plastic waste, most often food, which is flooding the planet, both at sea and on land. less and less housework to go faster and faster, which is obviously a consumerist societal evolution. so yes, we need to tackle this complex issue at all levels, by ensuring that manufacturers are supported by member states in increasing research into the possibilities of substituting materials, by making consumers and distributors more responsible and by giving member states a very strong incentive to commit themselves to preventing the sixth continent of plastics.
mr president, by 2050, there will be more plastic in the ocean than fish. and plastic is on its way to becoming the number one threat to marine life. today, five billion tons of plastic are lying in the oceans and in nature, and by 2050, if things continue as they are, 30 billion tons of plastic will be produced, three times more than all the plastic produced to date. in fact, our earth has become the plastic planet and the ecological disaster is major. the plastics directive could have been a turning point, but it is in fact only a small step in the right direction, whereas everything would have had to be revolutionised and a new model invented, free of all plastics. i think we should be ashamed of what we have done to the planet and we should be ashamed of the species that are choking our culture with all the waste.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to put an end to the invasion of single-use plastic. we cannot afford to wait any longer. not a week goes by without a mass stranding of dolphins or starving whales, their stomachs filled with kilos of plastic. not a week, either, without an alarming study of microplastics, those plastic confetti that are suspended in the oceans, but also in the air. we don't want any more plastic that breaks apart, or polystyrene food packaging. this report, frédérique, on behalf of parliament, you have conducted it masterfully. the member states no longer have the moral right to delay, they must apply the measures adopted as quickly as possible, without delay, and without giving in to the sirens of industry, always quick to blackmail employment. the plastics industry has a vested interest in evolving and moving away from the throwaway culture. the change in model will open up new markets, the extended producer responsibility we have obtained extends the polluter pays principle. profit at any cost is over.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, plastic pollution of the oceans is a major issue, so we have a duty to be ambitious and i think that the agreement reached between the institutions is a good agreement. it takes account of the real possibilities of substituting plastics and puts us on a path of progress. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mrs ries, and the fictitious rapporteurs for their work. i shall not go back on the proposals contained in this text. i support the general approach and welcome the ban on oxide-degradable plastics, particularly in view of the pollution they represent, both on land and in the oceans. i am pleased that the final text reflects the idea i advocated, namely the introduction in the coming years of a standard clearly defining the biodegradability of plastics in the marine environment, based on research and innovation, in order to guarantee their safety. i am pleased to be able to testify here that in my various visits to plastics companies, the logic of the circular economy and the reuse of plastics are already well integrated. and the use of biodegradable plastics is bio-based. companies are investing in innovative solutions to enable plastics to be recovered into recycled raw material, bioplastics. we can and must do better, and that is what we are asking for in this text. it is therefore our duty to ensure that we support our ambitions by the necessary means.
mr president, there is no need to theorize any further about plastic pollution, just look at the pictures of a whale in thailand, suffocated to death by plastic bags. she had swallowed eighty-five. you also see the mediterranean sea, which has become a garbage dump, with a concentration of 250 billion microplastics, the highest concentration in the world. so i welcome all of these single-use plastics that will be banned from 2021, because they represent 70 percent of marine pollution. plastic waste is a threat to biodiversity and is everywhere, including in the fish we eat. this legislation is, in my view, the first step towards a new production model, the circular economy. better to consume and better to recycle all these plastic products in an environmentally friendly way. finally, i want to emphasize the plastics industry that should pay for and fund a great marshall plan for the oceans. it is simply the application of the polluter pays principle. for too long, the industries have considered our earth their garbage. ladies and gentlemen, it is not even a question of the survival of future generations, but of our own. it is now that pollution will be irreversible.
madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate mrs frédérique ries on this excellent report. there's an emergency, our planet is in danger, and we all know it here. we have created a seventh continent of 80,000 tons of plastic waste, three times the surface of france. we need to rethink our whole economic model. it is about the future of our ecosystems, our biodiversity and the very existence of the human species. we need to drastically reduce the use of plastic in europe and apply the principles of the circular economy. that was just said. we must quickly get rid of this neoliberal logic which encourages ever greater consumption and is killing our planet, and with it, intervene in the future of our children. finally, we must be consistent with ourselves. we are voting today on a text warning about the impact of plastic products on the environment and at the same time we are still using plastic straws and bottles in this parliament. we must set an example and stop the use of these objects in this very institution.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, commissioner, 50% of the fertilisers currently on the market still do not have access to the internal market. this report thus puts an end to this distortion of competition, which is hampering a whole sector, which nevertheless holds significant promise for the future of agriculture in europe. the aim is to establish conditions of competition for organic fertilisers on a par with those for mineral fertilisers. this report, which is an integral part of the circular economy package, has succeeded in overcoming many and varied collateral issues that even touched on tricky geopolitical issues. we can nevertheless regret the lack of pragmatism on the part of some, who have found it difficult to give economic actors reasonable objectives and time limits to adapt to the new compliance criteria. the outcome of the interinstitutional negotiations, however, suggests a suitable agreement, which will have to be completed quickly to encourage innovation in the fertiliser sector. i am thinking in particular of the french players in the sector, who will benefit from this agreement. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
the answer is 'blue card'. you are right, my dear colleague. in any case, when the european union gets involved in something, in general, everything becomes toxic. but in this particular case, as in many others, the full consequences of this new legislation have not yet been drawn, and we hope that this will be resolved later.
mr president, just as a courtesy gesture to say that since you have started the olympic games of speed, we should really congratulate the interpreters who are having a hard time following you but are doing very well. (applause) i would like to thank
for the gue/ngl group mr president, kosovo is a country of less than two million inhabitants. the war that bled the country has claimed more than 13,000 lives. it is the only balkan state that has not benefited from the liberalisation of short-stay visas, of course, since these are the only visas that are within the competence of the union. north macedonia, montenegro and serbia have been members since 2008, albania and bosnia since 2010. as our rapporteur has written, kosovo is now isolated on the map of visa liberalisation in the balkans. it was asked to complete a list of criteria more detailed than any other country, which it did. the commission produced a legislative proposal in 2016. we are accustomed to moving very quickly in this matter, ratifying liberalisation agreements, including those already in force, particularly for charming oceanic islands such as tonga, tuvalu, nauru, kiribati, vanuatu and a few others, for which there is indeed little chance of seeing nationals arrive on our territories, but they are designed for a few privileged european tourists. the post-liberalisation mass arrivals syndrome is still being denied by the facts, especially in the balkans, not to mention the future role of the ees and etias. while not everything is perfect, kosovo has made a lot of effort, far beyond what was required of its neighbours. corruption and the justice system are often highlighted, but his neighbors are not doing any better. the european parliament has done its job, the european commission's proposal was adopted in september 2016 and the negotiating mandate given by our libe committee was confirmed in plenary in 2018. but the council has still not adopted a negotiating mandate. the real issue, as has already been said, is that five member states have still not recognised kosovo. our group is broadly in favour of visa liberalisation and freedom of movement and for the most part we do not want to make an exception for kosovo. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal and thank her in particular for her tenacity.
the commission has already taken action on this. mr diaz de mera, we know each other well, we are used to working together and i know that you are an excellent lawyer. so, may i ask you whether you are aware that the five states you mentioned have agreed to visa liberalisation, regardless of the question of recognition of kosovo? i would also like to know how much you value the united nations and the recognition of states and the right of peoples to self-determination.
mr president, 'sewing an open wound' in her call for the lifting of visas for kosovo, the rapporteur has certainly not been shy about the 'hyperbole'. but how can one seriously argue for a decision based on merit when, in recent times, kosovo has seemed to take a clever pleasure in playing with fire? what about, for example, 100% customs duties on serbian imports, in defiance of the central european free trade agreement, or the transformation of the kosovo security force into an army, in violation of its basic texts? but the most unacceptable thing is to lament the isolation of kosovo, while concealing the isolation of the serb minority. we no longer count the unfulfilled commitments, such as the one concerning serbian municipalities, which has remained a dead letter since the brussels agreement in 2013. from provocation to provocation, kosovo is moving further and further away from a european perspective and confirms that it has never ceased to be a failed state in the heart of the continent.
mr president, today five member states of the european union still refuse, and rightly so, to recognise kosovo as a state. the independence of kosovo, let us remember, is only the consequence of the barbaric bombing of the serbian people twenty years ago, and with depleted uranium, too. the visa-free regime for kosovo nationals would be a further step towards eu membership, which we formally reject. you speak, for many of you, my dear colleagues, of criteria. i personally see one: it is the unacceptable treatment of human rights by the kosovar government. we do not need, in this disintegrating european union, a pseudo-state, a mafia and an islamised state which, according to a report by the us state department, subjected the serbs of kosovo to a number of institutional, social and occupational discriminations, and even to intimidation aimed at preventing them from practising their christian religion and even to attacks. i would like to say to the author of this report in particular that his approach does not go in the desired direction of reconciliation between all the peoples of the former yugoslavia, who are all friendly peoples to us.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, parliamentary democracy has no price, but it does have a cost. and we, the members of the committee on budgets, have a duty to ensure that the euro we have at our disposal is used properly. i would like to pay tribute to mr vladimir maňka, who prepared the analysis of this draft budget for parliament. he did it with rigor, he did it with the fictional reporters, and i want to commend their commitment and the excellence of their work. i would like to say that the rigour with which parliament manages its budget conditions its authority when it enters into negotiations with the council in the period following the vote on the union budget. the vote we are voting on is provisional and will have to be confirmed in october. having said that, i would like to share with you my impression that we must remove an ambiguity: every year for the five years that i have chaired the committee on budgets, we have the same difficulty, we have a draft budget which reflects a policy decided by the bureau. we have expressed questions and doubts about staffing developments, new posts and diplomatic representations in certain countries outside the european union. the answers we received did not always raise our questions, but as these were decisions of the bureau and the groups, we had virtually no opportunity to challenge these choices. i therefore think that in the next term of office we will have to remove this ambiguity on the collection, for example: a number of credit lines are overvalued and at the end of the year we find that there are unused credits, which are used to finance real estate investments. well, i would like to see a forward-looking approach to housing policy and that our budget be stamped with the seal of budgetary sincerity. i would like to pay tribute to all those who have been successive rapporteurs on parliament's draft budget and express my gratitude and admiration to them and to the fictitious rapporteurs.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, fictitious rapporteurs and members, it is almost 40 years since the european union adopted legislation on drinking water. we have made considerable progress in all countries. this legislation was first revised just 20 years ago and the time has come for a new revision, if only to take account of the scientific advances reflected in the new who standards. but we also need to - and this is what the commission is proposing - integrate the advanced knowledge on risk management, as set out in the water framework directive, and take into account citizens' expectations in terms of access to water and transparency. last october we voted in plenary on the report on the revision of the directive. the directive, which mainly revises the parameters, proposes a new method of risk assessment to prevent pollution risks as far in advance as possible. this report therefore presents several key issues: public accountability, the risk-based approach, quality parameters and finally access to water. we must promote access to quality water for all european citizens at an affordable cost and in full transparency to the consumer. with a clear timetable, despite the work involved, parliament lived up to the expectations of the citizens, ready to negotiate the text as early as november in order to reach an interinstitutional agreement before the end of the mandate. unfortunately, the delay in the text in the council does not allow us to find ourselves in a satisfactory situation today. on the contrary, it is a very delicate situation, since we have not been able to reach a text negotiated in trilogue and voted on. despite all the efforts of the romanian presidency, which i want to commend, to make up for the delay in the council, the presentation of a general approach at the council of ministers on 5 march 2019 is too late. parliament no longer has the margin of manoeuvre to initiate interinstitutional negotiations before the european elections. the report deals with both technical and political issues of importance to european citizens and, after its vote tomorrow at first reading, it constitutes parliament's official position for the interinstitutional negotiations. it will now be up to the finnish presidency to negotiate this revision with parliament. i would like to thank once again the whole team of fictitious rapporteurs who have accompanied me in this process and i would also like to pay tribute to our staff and the services of the parliament.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, drinking water is a topic that is close to my heart. it was with a team aggregation conference on the legal drinking water regime that i started my academic career 35 years ago. it is with a draft recast of the directive of 3 november 1998 on the quality of drinking water that i conclude my mandate as a member of the european parliament today. the change was prompted by a european petition that has gathered nearly two million signatures. it aims to ensure access to safe drinking water in europe for all vulnerable groups, including roma. the objective is generous but i think it runs counter to the principle of subsidiarity. water regulation is a matter for the member states, not the union. if endocrine disruptors and various toxic products contaminate drinking water, it is up to them to act, in consultation with who, not the brussels commission. as for universal access to drinking water, the european states are perfectly capable of ensuring it, without needing the moral lessons of the union. let us not be fooled, the commission is seeking to exploit the situation of the roma in an attempt to appropriate new powers in this area. the europe of nations, which i wish to see, must resist this kind of manoeuvre to return sovereignty to the states.
mr president, endocrine disruptors are everywhere: in rivers, groundwater and tap water. even in very low doses, these molecules can disrupt the hormonal system and cause physical abnormalities in behavior and, worse, reproduction. long futures generations has drawn on three government studies of tap water in france and the figures are staggering: endocrine disruptors account for half of the most common pesticides. it is true that the nature of water varies from one state to another and the national scale is much more appropriate than the european scale in this respect. however, i do not agree with the rapporteur's position in the explanatory statement. this position tends to minimize the risks, citing a lack of scientific consensus. the same is true for research into microplastics, which is reportedly only at an early stage. i'm sorry, but the health of the french is not negotiable.
the rapporteur. mr president, this is indeed the last time i am presenting a report in this house and i would therefore like to tell you what is on my heart after hearing a number of untruths this evening. when we talk about the price of water, we are not talking about the price of water, we are talking about the price of the water service, we are talking about the price of pipes, the price of sewage treatment plants, we are talking about the price of testing. i hear the two million or so citizens who signed the contribution for water for all. we all share this objective, but i also hear the millions of consumers who are calling for us to maintain the price of water, that is to say, to have investments that are as sensible as possible to serve the interests of the consumer, the citizen consumer, and to preserve his health. you don't mess with scientific data. who regularly produces data, and we incorporate this data into the european text. when we are told that a number of parameters need to be taken into account, we should still be advised by who on a method of evaluating human health. we don't have this method of assessing microplastics, we don't have this method of assessing endocrine disruptors on human health. so, yes, we have to keep working. we must continue to work with determination because water is essential to life and because access to quality water for all must be a requirement. if we can improve tap water, if we can guarantee our citizens that under any circumstances, they will have access to quality water, then yes, we will eliminate the plastic bottle. the citizens must know that tap water costs them thousands of times less than the water they buy in bottles, in which they seem to have absolute confidence, and i doubt that absolute confidence. mr president, commissioner, you are the only two in this house with a glass of water in front of you. so raise a glass to the health of 500 million european consumers. we have to fight, we have to keep fighting for quality water. i trust those who will succeed us.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, first of all i would like to thank my colleagues, and particularly mrs niebler, for the excellent work they have done in committee and in the interinstitutional negotiations. the text put to the vote tomorrow will allow greater access to television and radio programmes across europe for the benefit of our citizens and will facilitate the acquisition of copyright by the operators concerned. the original proposal for a regulation was transformed into a directive, thus giving member states a margin of appreciation. the application of the country of origin principle is limited to information and current affairs programmes and to in-house productions wholly financed by a broadcasting organisation. the principle of the territoriality of rights, which is the basis of cultural creation and its financing, remains. cultural and linguistic diversity will be preserved. finally, the provisions on direct injection solve a problem by clarifying the responsibility of operators. this will provide greater legal certainty for rightholders. this proposal for a directive is important for our citizens, for right holders and for the preservation of a quality culture.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by silvia costa, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of the creative europe programme (2021 to 2027) (com ((2018) 0366 c8-0237/2018 2018/0190 (cod)) (a8-0156/2019).
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, if cultural industries are so important to the european economy, it is because culture is so closely linked to our continent that it is almost its trademark. a cultural community in the highest sense of the term was recognized even by robert schuman, the disembodied apostle of the single market. it is therefore regrettable that creative europe, which has supported such esteemed works as the lives of others and the king's speech, is in turn being misled by the ideological whims of fashion. i am passing on the obsession with fake news, at a time when the imminence of the european elections seems to plunge the commission into an unfathomable disarray. the most controversial aspect is the endless openness of the kosovo programme to tunisia, not to mention the inevitable challenge of integrating migrants. in its mission to promote cultural diversity, as set out in the treaties, brussels seems to have focused on increasingly exotic diversity. the result is inevitably a program in his image, without roots, passion and soul.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 28 march 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for a debate on the report by milan zver, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing 'erasmus': the union programme for education, training, youth and sport (com (2018) 0367 c8-0233/2018 2018/0191 cod) (a8-0111/2019)).
member of the commission. – madam president, i am pleased to join you today for this debate on the future erasmus programme. i think we all agree that erasmus is the european union’s most iconic programme and one of its biggest success stories. erasmus is a true expression of what the european union stands for and what it can do for our people. it has changed the lives of millions of europeans and changed them for the better. with this in mind, the commission has tabled an ambitious proposal for a new erasmus programme. we propose to double the budget and build on the success of the current programme. at the same time, we propose to add some promising new elements. let me first of all thank the rapporteur, mr zver, and his shadow rapporteurs, as well as all the members of the committee on culture and education (cult) and, of course, of the other committees that give an opinion, and all those who have contributed to this report. the commission is fully aware that the programme and its participants from universities, fet colleges, apprentices and high schools, are just as dear to you as they are to us. i would therefore like to take this occasion to wholeheartedly thank you for your enthusiasm and for your support for the commission’s proposal. the commission is also happy to see that our two institutions have largely converging positions on most features of the future programmes. we share the parliament’s objectives to make the programme even more inclusive, to make it simpler for our beneficiaries and to further exploit the potential for synergies with other sources of eu funding. fundamentally, we want erasmus to reach more people and especially people from diverse socio—economic backgrounds. we want erasmus to become more open to smaller organisations, notably by cutting the paperwork. we also want to boost mobility for school pupils, learners in vocational education and training, and for youth exchanges. this will strongly diversify the profile of erasmus participants. i know that this house takes a lot of interest in synergies and complementarities between eu funding programmes, and i can assure you that erasmus will benefit from this. for example, the future european social fund plus could top up individual mobility grants to support people with fewer opportunities or skill up the results of successful erasmus projects. for this to become a reality, we need to involve all actors, including at national and regional level. what matters most is that we put funding to its best and most efficient use. the future erasmus programme will also be instrumental in creating a genuine european education area by 2025, where learners can move freely across borders and between disciplines, and where education and training systems are inclusive, innovative and geared towards lifelong learning. i appreciate that you support the commission in this effort. in order to help turn this vision into reality, the future erasmus programme will support ambitious new initiatives, such as the european universities initiative or the centres of vocational excellence. they have the potential to become new flagships of the programme, together with the new discovereu initiative. the idea for discovereu, namely to offer 18-year-old young people a ticket to travel europe, has enormous potential, especially if it is reinforced with a strong learning dimension, as you rightly request. it’s now important that we negotiate the new programme quickly so that it will soon be a reality. the commission therefore regrets that the parliament is not willing to start negotiations for erasmus before the elections, while the commission and the presidency would have been keen to do so. we would consider it a pity if this well-known and successful programme risked delays in kicking off due to a late start of the negotiations. the commission believes that this report provides a good basis to reach an agreement between the institutions swiftly. i am convinced that the european parliament will again be a powerful ally in creating a strong and vibrant new erasmus programme. rest assured that the commission will be an honest broker in this process.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, i would like to congratulate the commission on its initiative. erasmus is a programme that speaks to europeans, and it is obviously a great success. it is the one that contributes to the best investment we can make, i.e. to enable young people to give themselves the means to understand the world, perhaps to gain access to a professional capacity, and it is also to train talents for the competitiveness of companies. i would therefore like to make three comments, three wishes, on behalf of the committee on budgets. first, we need to increase appropriations. and if the discussion with the council is having difficulty getting started, it is because we do not know the council's position. doubling the appropriations compared to the 2014-2020 mff is not enough and we risk having fewer appropriations in 2021 than in erasmus 2020. so we must increase the appropriations. the second concern is to simplify procedures. and finally, to democratize erasmus. today, for long-term mobility, which is profitable because it involves immersion, it is mainly students who benefit. what we want is for vocational learners, apprentices and trainees to be able to benefit from erasmus grants and have long-term mobility. it will also be necessary to suggest to member states that they use the cohesion funds, the regional development fund and the european social fund to set up centres of excellence. thank you, commissioner, for all you have done for youth mobility and employment.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, to strengthen the feeling of belonging to europe among citizens is the alleged objective that the commission assigns to the erasmus programme, which has become erasmus+ or wants to become erasmus again, it is not clear anymore. this would naturally be all the more urgent following brexit. these are just wishes. erasmus mobility, through the discovery of other spaces, cultures and languages, is a wonderful opportunity to realise what we have in common and what sets us apart. unfortunately, nothing is being done to further these discoveries in mobility. mobility beyond europe is increasingly encouraged. it is difficult to see, for example, how the fact that tunisia is the first destination outside europe for the french reinforces the european identity. moreover, rather than encouraging national agencies to introduce mobility beneficiaries to local heritage, the commission prefers to offer interrail passes to those who have just turned 18, i.e. those who are going to vote for the first time. it does not seek to promote the discovery of other cultures, which makes a long stay more convenient than crossing the continent by train. i think we're all agreed on that. but we simply want to influence the votes of the citizens. finally, although this report is concerned with language learning, it does not make it compulsory to learn the language of the host country. instead, digital learning is facilitated and english will no doubt be the language of choice. in short, the commission believes that our identity is to be sought elsewhere and that only migrants, who are offered language courses, have the right to take root. this makes it easier to understand why the budget needs to be tripled to 41 billion, which will have to be collected from the pockets of the citizens. welcome to the europe of the world instead of a europe of nations.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the climate emergency and in order to implement the paris agreements, it is essential to encourage the development of green finance. the need for this is exponential. we have a report from oxfam which says that the big french banks have not kept their commitments made at cop 21. it is time to put finance at the service of the energy transition, because it is the future of our industry. however, we must remain pragmatic and that is why i do not want to have a negative list of activities, which would in principle be excluded from the field of sustainable investment, because we can also provide for investments for improvements in existing technologies. similarly, it would be a mistake to focus these investments solely on renewable energy at the expense of other low-carbon energy sources. to go back on the technological neutrality of our text would be to mortgage the future. let us remember that the best is often the enemy of the good. i am in favour of a more open view of what sustainable investment could be because a too restrictive, too idealistic view would actually lead to a very strong restriction on the labelling of these investments.
mr president, if we are to be consistent in the ecological transition, this dossier is absolutely essential, because the best way to move towards the ecological transition is to direct investment. it is the most effective tool to ensure this ecological transition. what i see is that, too often, here and elsewhere, some conservatives and lobbies make big statements in favour of this ecological transition, and when it really comes to putting concrete tools into practice, they back down in the face of the obstacle. that is why we are disappointed with the outcome of the work of the committee on the environment and the committee on economic and monetary affairs. we therefore ask you to mobilise to correct the situation and so that, through the vote of this plenary, we can re-establish the idea of categories of activities with a significant negative impact on the environment and re-establish the idea that aid for solid fossil fuels is not possible. there will be no ecological transition without a social dimension! otherwise, the street will turn against its common good. that cannot be the message of this assembly.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, and the rapporteur for the excellent work they have done. unfortunately, it is clear that this roadmap is far from being a response to the health and environmental emergency. in view of the threat these substances pose to the health of 500 million european citizens, the socialist group proposes that a commission statement with a debate on the subject be added to the agenda for thursday's part-session as the third item, together with a resolution which could be adopted at the april ii part-session.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, at a time when gas reserves in northern europe are declining and european consumption is on the increase, the issue of gas supplies is a major issue. russia supplies 35% of the gas consumed in the union and its exports are an indispensable source of revenue for it. despite this interdependence, the commission is calling for the diversification of suppliers and is seeking to curb trade with russia for geopolitical reasons. unable to impose its views through diplomatic channels, the commission is trying to achieve its aims by means of a regulation. it requires that outside its territory, the union's energy rules apply to gas supply pipelines. the aim is to undermine the nord stream 2 project, which would double russian gas supplies via the baltic. the manoeuvre is crude and the difficulties encountered with several states in interinstitutional negotiations are proof that no one is fooled. this regulation seeks to cut us off from russian gas on ideological grounds. it will promote environmentally harmful and economically costly american shale gas. the commission is here again taking the lead in energy and geopolitics at the expense of the states, and this will be the main reason why we oppose this text.
mr president, european fishermen in general and french fishermen in particular are facing serious difficulties today. the european commission, in the context of the next multiannual financial framework, is about to reduce the amounts paid to the european maritime and fisheries fund by 5%, as i have seen it do for the common agricultural policy. this is not admissible. fishermen and farmers are - if you will pardon the expression - in the crosshairs of the commission's globalist aims. however, the committee on fisheries has adopted amendments calling for the original budget of the european maritime and fisheries fund to be retained, which we of course support. we also take note of the rapporteur's call for greater administrative simplification. this simplification is absolutely necessary, as i am regularly told by fishermen, whether they are from the arcachon basin, the basque country, perpignan, sète or elsewhere. we will also pay particular attention to the possibilities for improving the small-scale fleets. that is why we will support this text.
on behalf of the enf group. 'mr president, since these mysteries are beyond us, let us pretend to be the organisers,' said the poet. we are now debating china, which is a real problem for us, because it rejects a certain geopolitical order, which the european union and the united states have long held in their hands, and this order is coming to an end before our eyes. the countries of europe must engage in dialogue with china, which is one of the many partners of the world of tomorrow, a multipolar world. and i do not see why the union should want to prevent certain countries from defending their interests in the context of in-depth cooperation. my country, france, has always had a balanced relationship with china. it has been so ever since general de gaulle was the first to recognize the people's republic of china. we are not ignoring 1.4 billion people. if there is unfair competition, protectionism and localism are the only appropriate responses. to deny this is to fall into a pernicious logic of clash of civilizations and in this game, no one will emerge victorious.
mr president, yes, china is pursuing an aggressive policy in trade, in diplomacy and even in military matters. and yes, the european union has been too naive about china for too long, and i see in this document a kind of late awakening. i welcome it, but it is a revival that is both incomplete and sometimes a little hypocritical. it is incomplete because it does not mention counterfeiting: it is almost 250 billion dollars lost for countries such as germany, italy and france. incomplete on sustainable development: we cannot be satisfied with empty admonitions in the face of a country which is one of the biggest polluters on the planet. finally, it is hypocritical because we must be clear about the question of reciprocity in trade and make it clear that europe cannot be fooled. european public procurement is wide open; chinese markets are not. chinese companies are making strategic investments in europe in sectors as diverse as airports, new technologies and even the pipeline sector, as in france today with saint-gobain. but european companies cannot do that. you can't be a hypocrite. we must impose reciprocity, or else we must simply protect ourselves, protect our territories and protect our employees and our companies.
mr president, for the past 20 years china has been opening up to international trade. its entry into the wto in 2001 is a testament to this: it now wants to strengthen its trade relations with europe through the creation of a new silk road. we must trade with china, but we must be careful. we must ensure that this silk road will encourage flows in both directions, not just from china to europe. we must also resist china's strategy of imposing technology transfers on us in exchange for access to its market. in the negotiations currently being conducted by the union, we must finally get china to respect our protected geographical indications. but, deeper down, we must always remember that china is not a partner like any other. it is a totalitarian state that has just written into its constitution a strange tribute to the thought of president xi jinping. it is also a communist state which massively subsidises its national companies and thus makes the free and fair competition which the union would like to establish almost impossible.
in writing. after years of record trade deficits, predatory strategies and massive dumping, the european union pretended to have realised that economic relations with the middle kingdom were not win-win. and, by the way, imbalance seems to be their trademark. in many sectors, for example in the wood sector, the middle kingdom is often greedy for raw materials and then dumps cheap finished products on our open markets. las, bad news is bad news. in the space of a few days, my home town of lorraine was hit by two blows - the shutdown of smart production in hambach and the likely takeover of a 60% stake by chinese company xinxing in the historic pipeline company saint-gobain pam. the latter case sharply underlines the implications of trade with china, which the us president had the courage to denounce, in terms of transfers of technology, intellectual property and know-how. while france is already the most deindustrialised member state, the dismantling of another of our jewels will inevitably be accompanied by a loss of industrial sovereignty.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, securing the external borders to safeguard the financial and economic interests of the european union should be a matter on which everyone agrees. unfortunately, the worm is in the fruit: the ideological software of the machine compromises effective protection of citizens. firstly, the customs union does not guarantee the basic protections within the customs union itself. economic and social disparities are so great in the single market that there is no need to protect the customs union from distortion of competition from outside, when it already exists within. secondly, this objective has been the inherent objective of the customs union since its creation: we know its results and the balance sheet, which are largely inadequate. a sincere political will, as well as an obvious economic pragmatism, are largely lacking to guide the destinies of european nations, which are being thrown into the four winds of globalisation. i will support this text with my group, but at the time of the signing of free trade agreements with the whole world, i remain under no illusions as to the european union's ability to protect its citizens.
mr president, laura pignataro was a senior official in the legal service of the brussels commission. she was also a whistleblower. in 2018, it revealed to the european ombudsman emails proving the illegality of the appointment of german martin selmayr as secretary-general of the commission. under pressure from her revelations, she committed suicide on 17 december. a french newspaper just broke the story. i accuse mrs merkel of being the cause of this terrible misfortune, by having imposed the illegal appointment of martin selmayr. i accuse jean-claude juncker and the commission as a whole of having given in to these manoeuvres. i accuse the european parliament of cowardice in abstaining from voting on a motion of censure against the commission and voting on a platonic protest. i accuse the european union of having driven laura pignataro to suicide and i demand justice for this woman. you've got to be strong!
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, my first words are to commissioner marianne thyssen. i have great admiration, commissioner, for what you are doing with this very modern text. you have been brave to put this text on work-life balance on our table. you have been courageous because this is a text that upsets the traditional habits of our societies, where the burden of the family and children rests solely on women, which ends up putting an embargo on their careers and influencing even their price on the labour market. you have come with this text to rebalance this injustice before which so many women have bowed their knees. so, for all these women, i just wanted to say thank you. i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr david casa, for his courageous stand. this is also the work of meps, because you can have a good text on the table, you can do good work between rapporteur and fictitious rapporteurs, but if all this work is not concluded by effective trilogues, then it is worthless. so, thank you all. this is a new building block of social europe that is being laid on our table this morning and that we must support. it is a new brick that is changing the labour market, the concept of the family and equality between men and women. it is the labour market that is changing because, indeed, we are moving away from this single burden that rests on women. we're going to have equal pay and equal careers, and that's what we want for women. i thank you, commissioner, and i thank my colleagues.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, this dossier on the provisions to accompany workers, not in their working life but in their private life, is typically outside the european union. in pursuit of its real aim, namely to interfere in everything, at every moment of the daily life of each and every worker, from the birth of children and their education to the help to parents or to the spouse in illness or loss of autonomy, brussels, contrary to what is announced by talking about work-life balance, created real imbalances, because behind this more than praiseworthy idea, the text presents three risks. first, all legislative or administrative texts in this area are the responsibility of the member states alone. brussels has no right to set rates, durations and amounts, because this violates the principle of subsidiarity and in addition constrains countries, such as france, which already have all the desirable arsenal, not to mention the possible imbalance in national social accounts. moreover, these purely societal arrangements are not the responsibility of employers, whose role is to provide work activities in an acceptable environment and not to impose a compulsory paternalism that they would not want. last but not least, this text imposes a predominance of personal life over professional life, which will eventually become a major obstacle to the economic dynamism of europe, affecting first of all the tpe and smes, which will thus be unbalanced.
mr president, commissioner, time has become a rare commodity, especially when we are relatives or carers. today, more than six out of ten parents are unable to find this delicate balance between their professional and personal lives, sometimes putting themselves at risk of precariousness or burnout. in the face of this difficult situation, europe has a vital role to play in strengthening the solidarity that exists in each country towards families. and the new family leave rules we are adopting today are the answer of a real europe. despite our differences, i am glad that we have managed to move forward together and to develop this minimal social basis of rules, which will contribute to a better living together. taking into account the evolution of society, we have introduced a european paternity leave to guarantee all fathers that they can be present at the birth of their child. we have also introduced a non-transferability clause for part of parental leave. another key element of the new regulation is the introduction of leave for carers. europe is the continent with the largest number of elderly people: almost 20% of europeans are aged 65 and over. by choice, lack of adequate services or high costs of care, 80% of care is provided by carers. so giving them a leave of absence is a fair return on a really very important investment. we are taking an essential first step here. member states should now support this by, for example, creating respite homes, to enable these carers to recharge their batteries.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we the greens want a separate point to discuss the assange case. we are very afraid of his extradition to the us but we want this to be a separate point on the agenda.
mr president, i would like to remind you that a mandate has been voted in committee. i would remind you that this mandate has been confirmed here in plenary. i would remind you that parliament was united in the whole discussion and that it is the council which is now lacking, with a blocking minority, which is extremely small. i think it is very important for the next parliament that we have a position which is a position of strength, with a positive balance of forces. we know that a number of council members want to bring back a number of issues to the table in the next term of office. i am thinking, for example, of the indexation of family benefits. it is important that this should not happen. i think it is democratically quite normal for parliament to decide on a first reading. otherwise we would have done this work together for little, which would be a great pity, since parliament was in solidarity with all of this.
madam president, i regret that i was not able to raise this point, which is not relevant to this debate, before mr tajani left. i ask you to stop the clock and not to deduct this intervention from the speaking time i have been given for the debate on whistleblowers. that's not what this is about. i want to tell you about the bureau meeting that will take place in a few minutes and which will be examining a highly problematic report on article 17 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. article 17 is the one that regulates the relations between religions and our parliament. the report calls for the organisation of the article 17 secretariat to open the way for lobbying by religious organisations in the european legislative process. while the ngo open democracy highlights that more than 50 million euros are financing campaigns against human rights, women's rights, lgbt rights, how can we accept that the bureau, in complete opacity, organizes a strong lobbying of religious organizations in the legislative process? i therefore ask you to withdraw this item from the bureau's agenda and to organise a transparent, democratic debate before the whole house at the next plenary session with the next parliament. these are matters too serious to be dealt with in the opacity of a bureau meeting and must be considered by all members, under the eyes of our fellow citizens.
i'm the reporter. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is a vital debate for european citizens this afternoon, because it is about recognising the essential role played by whistleblowers in our democracies, putting our demands for transparency and good governance above economic and financial powers and, above all, ensuring, as a just return, the protection of those who have the courage to protect our general interest, those who have the courage to speak up to protect us. the aim is to make the european union one of the most advanced policy areas in the protection of whistleblowers. this directive is the result of a long work, especially by this parliament, which as early as 2014 highlighted in its work the importance of effective protection of whistleblowers, before expressing very clearly, on several occasions, its formal request for a directive. since the beginning of the mandate, the scandals have accumulated: luxleaks, panama papers, football leaks. they have shed a strong light on the precarious situation faced by whistleblowers. then the trade secret directive came. it has raised a lot of concern which we have tried to correct in the directive, but we have above all conditioned the adoption of this directive on the establishment of a genuine european protection for whistleblowers. i remember very well the debates in this house in 2016, when we were told that this was not possible, that there were not sufficient legal bases in the treaties to allow the european union to act. and yet, today, three years later, we are debating this issue before we adopt tomorrow - i hope - a directive that will protect whistleblowers across the union. the commitment of parliamentarians, as well as that of civil society and ngos, which i would like to commend here, is therefore bearing fruit. it moves the lines and makes europe listen to the concerns of european citizens. it is not something i do very often, but i would like to emphasise it here today: i would like to congratulate commissioner jourová on her commitment and the european commission on the ingenuity it has shown in finally overcoming the difficulties we faced and finding a solution to put in place a european protection for whistleblowers. so today we have this text which will make it possible to offer broad protection, the widest possible protection as parliament called for in its own-initiative report voted in 2017. of course, under this protection, employees who are in a traditional employment relationship will be covered, but also consultants, trainees, contractors, service providers and independent experts. we wanted to leave no gap in the protection we put in place. similarly, we have been keen to protect the people accompanying the whistleblowers - the facilitators, colleagues, relatives of the whistleblower - who could also be involved or affected by retaliation. i am also pleased that we have managed in these negotiations to preserve the original ambition, which was already in the commission's proposal, to cover the widest possible scope, from the protection of the european union's financial interests to corporate taxation issues and environmental protection. i hope that the member states will be keen to follow a common recommendation and go even beyond the sectoral scope defined in the directive to ensure the widest possible horizontal transposition. the reporting mechanisms we have in place are robust and they are also there to change mindsets. this was a key point, which translates into the obligation to set up internal channels within the company. but i am glad that we have returned to the obligation, originally envisaged, to go through internal reporting first. i think that was one of the major problems with the original proposal for the text and on this point the european parliament played its full role as co-legislator by making these improvements and by skipping this obligation which would have inevitably exposed the whistleblower to retaliation. finally, the text proposes really effective protections against retaliation: immunity from confidentiality clauses and from business secrecy, immunity also in respect of the acquisition of information disclosed, a protection which has had to be negotiated with some of the member states, and then the reversal of the burden of proof in labour disputes, which will effectively protect employees. the obligations of information and support, including psychological and financial support, are strengthened so as not to leave these people alone, who often find themselves very isolated in the face of gigantic multinationals. on the whole, therefore, we are about to adopt a very ambitious text which responds to the challenge posed to our democracies. i would like to thank my colleagues, the fictitious rapporteurs, who have been very involved in this matter and have shown that when parliament is united, it achieves its aims, it succeeds in producing results, it even succeeds in overthrowing blocking minorities in the council, which is not so often. i would also like to thank the romanian presidency, whose decisive action and leadership in this matter have produced this excellent result, and i would also like to thank commissioner jourová, who has shown a great spirit of compromise on this directive. i thank you all and hope that the vote tomorrow will make this step forward for the european union a reality.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. madam president, since the 'trade secret' directive does not create the conditions for effective security for whistleblowers, it is time to strengthen the text, as the rapporteur, mrs rozière, rightly proposes. the general interest is at stake: it is therefore right that protection should be total, the scope of application should be as wide as possible and only be subject to well-defined exceptions. however, the member states will have a great deal of latitude in applying this directive, which may be worrying, given the attempts by some governments to block it. so, in the absence of a european authority to protect whistleblowers, as my group has called for, the commission will have to ensure that the protections we are creating are properly and strictly enforced, for example by following up the application of this text with the guidelines you have mentioned, madam commissioner, or with an interpretative communication to ensure that all europeans have the same maximum protection when they want to report on practices that are contrary to the public interest. i add that it is time to create the conditions for the protection of julian assange, to whom the rights of journalists under the european convention on human rights must apply.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. madam president, commissioner, you say you want to protect whistleblowers. i'm all right. but who's coming to the rescue of julian assange? the europeans would be honoured to acknowledge the debt we owe him, because it was julian assange - let us never forget him - who revealed the massive spying by the united states on allied european countries. our duty today is to grant him asylum, since, as you know, he is in danger of extradition. by treating him in this way, all whistleblowers, whom our regulations are supposed to protect, are actually being terrorised. the time has come to change the fear camp and protect those who are being hunted, harassed, brought to justice, judged, sometimes even murdered, paying a heavy price for service to the public interest, and that starts with the immediate release of julian assange.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, if we look back on this mandate with a little pride, it will have brought the protection of personal data to european citizens and even provided the idea to american parliamentarians that they should be inspired by our work so that individuals are not the objects of the digital, and more particularly of the oligopolies that are the gafa. if we look at this session and the five-year term that has just ended, we can see that a fundamental work has been done. if mr snowden were european, he would not be exiled in a small moscow dacha, under the watch of all the intelligence services, a prey for all kinds of spies who want to see him extradited, sent back to the united states, where he would probably face the worst punishments. so, ladies and gentlemen, when you hear about europe, tell people that it is not only a remarkable economic entity, which has abolished frontiers, but above all an entity which has protected individual and collective freedoms more than any other continent in the world. i would like to thank two exceptional women for this work, mrs rozière, our rapporteur, who has conducted this work in a very masterly way, and commissioner jourová, whose text, by the way, although we always say so much bad about the commission, was absolutely essential, because it was going in the right direction. your work will be remembered with a white stone on this day when you have silenced all the critics of the union and all those who would like to rationalize, to withdraw the european union behind borders where no law would really have any value. thank you and congratulations on your job.
for the greens/efa group madam president, a europe that protects the general interest, a europe that protects the citizens of the union as a whole is perfectly possible. there is no need to go outside the treaties, no need to retreat within the borders. on the contrary, this europe exists! at a time when democracy is in danger, because of the opacity and technicality of a large number of new products, this europe, this democracy, needs whistleblowers. it needs citizens who stand up and denounce facts that some would like to hide. that is what we are doing today, and that is what the european parliament has just done, thanks to the commission. thank you, mrs jourová, and thank you, mr timmermans, for having wanted to put this in place. i also thank virginie rozière and all those who have worked on this dossier. but beyond the importance of this text, i want to remember one thing: when parliament is united, when parliament really wants to defend the general interest, then nothing stops it - neither conservatism nor lobbies - and we can advance democracy and the rule of law.
madam president, commissioner, this directive on the protection of whistleblowers shows that it is possible to change europe. this requires political will, optimism and hard work. no, the europe as it is is not the europe that environmentalists dream of, but we are not giving up. the european commission said in 2015 that a text to protect whistleblowers was not possible under a constant treaty. we environmentalists have proven otherwise. we have drawn up our own directive to show jean-claude juncker that the treaties must not be an excuse for inaction. protecting whistleblowers is protecting the very essence of our democracies, it's protecting the public interest rather than so-called business secrets. it is thanks to courageous people like antoine deltour, who revealed luxleaks, that our fight against tax evasion is moving forward. protecting the whistleblowers is one victory among many that we have won through our tenacity. a victory that is particularly dear to my heart.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their interventions. i also would like to encourage you to vote in favour of the compromise reached on the proposal. judging from your overall positive contributions here, i do hope that it will come true tomorrow. then, indeed, as many of you mentioned here, we must concentrate our efforts on ensuring a full and correct transposition of the directive across all the member states as soon as possible.
i'm the reporter. madam president, thank you to all colleagues for your support, encouragement and repeated greetings. i thank them in return, as do, of course, the romanian presidency and the commissioner. but i would not like to give the wrong impression with the consensus that is emerging today on this text, that this negotiation went smoothly because, as has been said, the timetable was very tight, which was a first challenge. i think we can be proud that we have managed to conclude these negotiations and to reach agreement on a very good text before the end of this mandate. that's really great and it's been a real treat. on principle, everyone is for the protection of whistleblowers, that's very good and that's happy. but i would like to point out that we have had to face some adversity, particularly from certain states in the council. it is important to point out, for the sake of transparency and to make it clear to our fellow citizens, that things were not so simple and that unfortunately some member states, not the least of which was france, which was allied with hungary and austria, tried to reduce the scope of the protection offered by this text. and if we finally reached this ambitious agreement, it is thanks to the mobilisation of all. as i said, the involvement of the ngos, whom i would like to commend once again for their daily work alongside the whistleblowers and for their commitment to this text, has been extremely valuable to us. all of them are hereby sincerely thanked. i would also like to thank once again the romanian presidency, the commission, which has really done everything to achieve a broad consensus, and the colleagues who have also mobilised to put pressure on their government so that we can reach this agreement. i think this is a good illustration of the role of the european parliament, of its role as the representative of the general interest of europeans and of its capacity to influence the course of events and the legislative process. i think it is important that all our citizens keep this in mind as the election deadlines approach.
mr boştinaru, you should have invoked an article, it is not a point of order.
no, mr. pavel, i didn't give you the floor. you have arrived at the last moment, you cannot ask a question about the opening of mrs jourová's speech. so unless you have a recall to the regulations with a number... no, don't talk without a microphone, like that in your corner, it's no use. i'm sorry, but you should have come a little earlier in this debate. the debate is closed.
the agenda calls for the joint discussion of:- report by wolf klinz, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2009/65/ec of the european parliament and of the council and directive 2011/61/eu of the european parliament and of the council as regards cross-border distribution of mutual funds ((com2018) 0092 - c8-0111/2018 - 2018/0041 ((cod)) (a8-0340/2018), and- report by wolf klinz, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council to facilitate cross-border distribution of mutual funds and amending regulations (eu) no 345/2013 and (eu) no 346/2013 (com (2018) 0110 - c110-08/2018 - 2018/0045 (cod)) (a8-0431/2018).
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate the negotiating team, led by our rapporteur wolf klinz, who should be arriving any minute, on the result achieved on this important issue. we are going to vote tomorrow on an important text for the completion of the capital markets union, as vice-president dombrovskis has just mentioned. the outgoing commission, whose work on this matter i welcome, wanted to provide precise and targeted responses to the barriers which still remain for crossborder investment within the union. the agreement reached with the council during the interinstitutional negotiations appears satisfactory and balanced. it takes account of most of the issues raised by parliament. it proposes, in particular, to make the procedure for the withdrawal of funds more pragmatic by abolishing the logic of thresholds which was arbitrary in nature. similarly, as regards pre-marketing, the mechanism was extended to pre-existing funds at the instigation of parliament and the requirements for pre-marketing documents were streamlined. this will make the tool more effective and better adapted to the objectives pursued. overall, we have managed to maintain the necessary safeguards to prevent these new opportunities from giving rise to possible circumvention, in particular by third country actors. finally, while the idea of european supervision at the level of a european authority sometimes seems to be contested, i am pleased to see that the compromise agreed by parliament gives an increased role to the european securities and markets authority, esma. this move towards more common supervision is an essential part of the smooth and efficient functioning of our capital markets union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 16 april 2019.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on:- report by peter simon, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 575/2013 as regards the leverage ratio, the net stable funding ratio, the own funds requirements and the capacity to raise capital of eligible undertakings, counterparty credit risk, market risk, exposures to central counterparties, exposures to collective investment undertakings, large exposures and reporting and publication requirements, and amending regulation (eu) no 648/2012 (com (2016) 0850 - c8-0480/2016 - 2016/00360acod)) (a8-0242/2018) on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 575/2013 as regards the leverage ratio, the net stable funding ratio, own funds requirements and the capacity to raise capital of eligible undertakings, counterparty credit risk, market risk, exposures to central counterparties, exposures to collective investment undertakings, large exposures and reporting and publication requirements, and amending regulation (eu) no 648/2012 (com (2016) 08524) and regulation (eu) no 575/2013 on own funds and capital requirements for companies, council directive (eu) no 98/26/2014 on own funds requirements for the capital of eligible undertakings and eligible undertakings, counterparties, counterparty credit risk, council directive (eu) no 47/2016/eu -c018/2014 - proposal for a directive of the european parliament and council on own funds and the capacity to absorb capital of financial institutions and the capital of companies, and the financial institutions and the financial institutions, and the financial institutions, and the financial institutions, and the financial holding companies, and the financial institutions, the financial institutions and the financial institutions and the
i shall be speaking to mrs berès in a moment. i thank you, madam, for pointing out to me the terrible fire which is ravaging one of the jewels of europe and the world: notre dame de paris.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, it is true that public life sometimes has its paradoxes, to be here under the dome of the european parliament, while that of notre-dame has just collapsed. believer or not, i believe it's a symbol of our civilization going up in smoke. i'm a secular woman, and i'm upset. the adoption of the banking package - again, bail out the banks - to enable the implementation of the measures agreed at international level after the financial crisis is an important step taken by the basel committee and the financial stability board. the step taken is important to reduce the risks that may develop within the banking system. this package will strengthen the framework for the resolution of bank failures. it will require global systemically important institutions to have a greater capacity to absorb loans and recapitalise. i'll stop right there.
you will speak again later, ma'am.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, the bailout of the banks is essential and, fortunately, after the financial crisis, the basel committee and the financial stability committee have helped to improve the system. we are now incorporating this provision into european law to reduce the risks that may develop within our banking system. we are strengthening the framework for resolving bank failures. we are strengthening controls on systemically important institutions, in terms of their loss absorbing capacity and the need for recapitalisation, with requirements in terms of the level and quality of own funds and eligible liabilities, the famous mrel. we are also introducing interim safeguard measures and possible additional measures for resolution authorities. the package will also strengthen prudential standards to reduce incentives to take excessive risks by providing for a short-term liquidity ratio, a leverage ratio and, finally, a stable net funding ratio. it will improve banks' lending capacity for financing infrastructure projects and take into account environmental criteria, as well as the need to promote gender equality in management bodies. however, this package will not solve everything, it is only a step. we must go further and if we have a banking union, there is no reason why we should not draw all the consequences. this means that the benefits of this single jurisdiction in granting exemptions for cross-border transactions must be fully recognised. similarly, the principle of proportionality must not ignore the real nature of the risks taken by the size of the models in a given market. finally, after years of bailing out banks, it is time to move towards more solidarity and finally adopt the european deposit guarantee long promised to european savers.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 16 april 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for a debate on the report by mr jonás fernández, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on sovereign debt securities (com ((2018) 0339 - c8-0206/2018 - 2018/0171 (cod)) (a8-0180/2019).
i'm the reporter. madam president, mr vice-president, dear othmar karas, this is indeed the second time we have cooperated and i believe that we have indeed cooperated as well as the first time. the commission had put on the table a good, coherent proposal. if the member states want a capital markets union, then the supervisory authorities must be strengthened. it may not be necessary to wait for the next crisis to realise that when you develop a market, it is better to have a policeman to watch over it, regardless of the quality of the players. dear othmar karas, when you took responsibility for this report alongside me, the child was indeed not doing very well. some even considered it dead, some member states were happy about it, but we saved it. we have ensured that member states cannot use the pretext of progress in the fight against money laundering, which was politically useful to them, to be content with it, but that they assume that no real progress could be made in the fight against money laundering without progress on the essential, namely that the european supervisory authorities are actually able to exercise their powers. perhaps less difficult, but i think this is a step that we should welcome, and we have also made progress on integrating a sustainability mandate. supervisors, whether in banking, insurance or securities, will have to examine the sustainability of the models implemented by institutions. similarly, in the area of consumer protection, we have taken an important step towards extending it to the banking and insurance sector on the basis of the powers of the securities supervisory authority. i think that's a good step. finally, at the initiative of some of our colleagues, we have introduced a coordination of mystery investigations, which is a good way of protecting consumers. in addition, we have improved the mechanism for each authority, in this case around the banking authority, to combat money laundering: this was normal and fair, pending the establishment of a truly independent authority and better coordination. in the insurance sector, we have taken account of reality. too often in this sector, shell companies are used to disregard consumer rights in other member states: the eaapp will have stronger powers in this area and i can only welcome this. finally, the securities and markets authority, esma, will have more power to intervene with regard to data reporting providers and transactions in financial markets or benchmarks. however, the heart of the battle was obviously the question of governance. in this respect, we have made useful improvements to the decision-making process to ensure that it is better informed, especially in the event of a risk of conflict of interest. the chairs of the esas will be able to rule in cases of difficulty in obtaining majorities and will be entitled to a tacit approval procedure for supervisory convergence, the initiation of infringement procedures in cases of breach of union law and the settlement of disputes between national competent authorities in cross-border situations. similarly, the authorities will be obliged to set up coordination groups when requested to do so by five national competent authorities. but let us be honest, and i think, mr vice-president, that you will have to agree with my diagnosis: there is a certain hypocrisy on the part of the council. the european parliament still wants to set up this capital markets union, which we know can be useful for financing the real economy, but when we want to strengthen this governance, we are told that we must retain supervisory authorities that are 'member state-driven institutions'.
i'm the reporter. madam president, i would like to thank all our colleagues for the tone they have adopted during this debate. i think that all our colleagues, whatever their seat in this house, have shared some of the frustration of the co-rapporteurs. this parliament wanted to support the commission, it wanted to go very far and finally we ran into the wall of the council. and in the council, i hear incredible arguments that when you have a crossborder activity - for example, if you issue prospectuses or if you equip your insurance company with an internal model, that is to say, if you are a large insurance company - it would be the competent national authority that, in the name of proximity and subsidiarity, would be best placed to assess the risks. i think the council is wrong. othmar karas and i fought to tear away, piece by piece, what we have today. it will be up to our successors to look at this issue of the prospectus, to ensure that internal models do not remain under the sole control of a competent national authority, and to regulate, as regards third countries, trading platforms or central securities depositories. perhaps the most important thing is that, on the eve of the european elections, our citizens will realise that when they are looking for the european spirit, when they are looking for the capacity to work together to develop european solutions for this market of ours, it is in this house, working from the ground up under the impetus of the commission's proposals, that we are most effective in the interests of the citizens.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ensuring predictable and transparent working conditions, i.e. the stability of the employment contract to integrate new forms of employment as well as possible, is a major challenge for all our countries. companies, employers and national legislators are faced with extremely rapid and abrupt changes in the labour market. new forms of employment, called 'atypical' jobs, are increasing at such a rapid rate that since 2014 20% of new jobs have been in this category. it is our responsibility to take the lead and to frame these new practices. we also need to prevent potentially abusive practices in domestic work, in marginal parttime work, sometimes of very short duration, in work based on cheques and especially in work related to digital platforms. because legislation too often follows the trend of social change. in drawing up this text, which is still insufficient, i made some proposals on behalf of my group and gave my support to certain specific proposals by the rapporteur. it is essential that all our fellow citizens be protected in the same way, regardless of the precarious nature of their employment. let us not forget that the widespread impoverishment of europe, to which the policies of the european union are of course no strangers, is at the origin of this myriad of mini-jobs and the resulting precariousness. it is the fragility of our enterprises that is causing the instability of employment. i am opposed to this model which is being imposed on us, but i also know that more urgent situations must be addressed. the european union is now trying to reverse or repair the consequences of the damage it has itself caused in part. while respecting the sovereignty of each member state, our group's objective is to promote safe and more predictable employment, while improving living and working conditions.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 16 april 2019.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by jeroen lenaers, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european labour authority (com (((2018) 0131 c8-0118/2018 2018/0064 ((cod)) (a8-0391/2018).
member of the commission. – mr president, i am also very happy to be here before the vote on the regulation establishing the european labour authority (ela). i have always considered this regulation to be the final piece of the agenda of this commission for fair labour mobility in europe. i presented the proposal in march 2018 and, one year later, we are here to vote on the final regulation. this impressive result in decision-making owes a lot to the constructive approach taken by both co—legislators and to the commitment and hard work of parliament’s rapporteur and the successive council presidencies. i would like to thank the rapporteur, jeroen lenaers, for his extraordinary commitment and his extremely efficient handling of the negotiations on behalf of the parliament. i would of course also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and the council presidency for their constructive work in bringing the file to a rapid and successful conclusion. the european labour authority will be the union’s first operational agency in the area of labour mobility. its establishment is much needed. today, 17 million european citizens are living or working in another member state than that of their citizenship. the european labour authority will be there for them, to ensure that european labour mobility rules are applied in a consistent, thorough and fair manner. the authority will pursue three objectives, which are equally important. first, it will facilitate access to information and services to companies and citizens. when moving across borders, they need to know what their rights and obligations are. ela will ensure that member states comply with their information obligations, for example in the area of posting of workers, and it will manage the day—to—day activities of eures, the european job mobility portal. second, the authority will facilitate and support cooperation between national authorities that enforce eu legislation in the areas of labour mobility and social security coordination. the authority will thus enable member states in cross—border contexts to fight social fraud, abuse of workers’ rights and undeclared work more efficiently. building on the examples of eurojust and europol, the european labour authority will bring national experts together under one roof in order to facilitate information exchange and cooperation. no doubt this will significantly contribute to the creation of a common enforcement culture, to efficient exchanges and mutual trust. the european labour authority will also give the necessary support for national inspectorates to cooperate through concerted and joint inspections. third, the european labour authority will provide a forum for mediation between national authorities in case of disputes. by promoting dialogue and out-of-court settlements of issues, we aim to facilitate swift responses to disputes which involve cases of individual citizens or companies. i know that, two years ago, when we started referring to the possible establishment of the european labour authority, some had doubts about the added value of another european agency. our proposal already made clear that we wanted to set up an authority with operational tasks that were not yet exercised at eu level, and this is exactly what this regulation has done. the european labour authority will be of great practical value in the day—to—day enforcement of labour mobility rules and, at the same time, it will open opportunities for a fair mobility of labour within the european union. once adopted, this commission is ready to take the first practical steps to make the european labour authority operational by autumn 2019. i’m really looking forward to your observations later on.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods. (beginning of the intervention outside the micro)... abuse, the establishment of a european labour authority is more than necessary: it is indispensable. social europe exists only in texts and never in reality, that is enough! let us give ourselves the means to enforce the law and put an end to social dumping once and for all. this authority will help and support not only posted workers but also persons established in another member state to work there. finally, the european union must really act for the rights of workers within the european union so that they are respected and that free movement remains a real opportunity. the european labour authority will be able to coordinate inspections throughout the territory and ensure compliance with the social rules in force. it is very clear, ladies and gentlemen, that we are talking about a step forward for social europe, because in practice it does exist in the texts, but it is still not implemented or respected: it could not last any longer and it must not last any longer! i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we will all adopt this text by a very large majority.
madam president, madam commissioner, we must support this european labour authority, because it is a step forward which must not be neglected. however, we know that we are still too far along in the conciliation process on these issues, particularly those of regulation and the fight against fraud. that is why we need more steps forward. i see other steps to be taken in the future. firstly, a genuine european labour inspectorate, which will be able to punish fraudsters not only financially, as is already the case in some member states, but also criminally, because we know that from this point of view fear must change sides. the fraudsters who are organizing social dumping today must know that if they persist in this way, they will personally pay the consequences. secondly, the european commission must put on the table an electronic social security card which will really be a tool for the portability of rights. this is a first step forward, but much more needs to be done to ensure that social dumping is no longer a bad memory and no longer a reality.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 16 april 2019. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday it was with a heavy heart that catholics, parisians and french people discovered the nine-century-old image of notre dame de paris in flames. it is also with a heavy heart that i wish to express here, on behalf of the french delegation, but also, i am sure, on behalf of all of you, our deep sorrow at this catastrophic event. yesterday, a treasure of french heritage was partially destroyed. yesterday, a piece of europe's cultural heritage caught fire. yesterday, when we saw our lady in flames, it was a small part of us that burned with her. a tribute to the firefighters who bravely fought the flames all night to keep this beautiful cathedral standing. i tell you, colleagues, france and the french will be resilient in this trial. what the cathedral builders erected yesterday, we will rebuild tomorrow. i would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your support for france. when a treasure of our heritage is touched, all of europe is at its bedside. as victor hugo said in notre dame de paris, each tide of time, each individual brings his stone. we too will contribute to the reconstruction of this symbol.
mr president, i would like to add something that will take 15 seconds. in 1163, when construction began, there was a skilled workforce in stone and wood from not only france, but from all over europe. we have found germans, spaniards, italians and even people from central and northern europe to come and contribute to this monument of civilization which is still our civilization today, the great european project. but that's not what i meant. mr president, you have appointed me chairman of the ethics committee for this term, alongside mrs delvaux, mr karim and mr maštálka. we have been subjected to a great deal of pressure during this mandate from the lobbies that have established themselves in our institutions. i would remind you, mr president, that the lobbies also acted maliciously in the vote on the copyright directive, to mention only that one, not to mention those that will come tomorrow and the day after. they have settled in our institutions and, as far as the european parliament is concerned, even in the interinstitutional phase, where they had nothing to do. i therefore ask that you leave to the next parliament, in keeping with our concept of the integrity of a member and of our parliament, the obligation to strengthen the rules to block lobbies, once and for all, from the moment the texts reach the plenary.
i'm the reporter. mr president, i thought i would wait for the third report to be voted on, but, like my colleagues wolf klinz and gunnar hökmark, after 25 years of working with you, this is my last report. i would like to thank all of you: those who fought for me, those with whom i was complicit, all those with whom we finally found a european position. i would also like to thank the interpreters and all the officials in this house and tell you that i am leaving a european parliament which has changed profoundly. we've changed too. europe has changed. but this parliament has become the real parliament of the people. it is always said that he is too much in tune with the lobbies, but he is also in osmosis, in step with this rising wave of europeans who are convinced that europe is their best future. this parliament is a modern, original, democratic parliament: it is the parliament of the people. keep it that way! (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is extraordinary, this vote is one of the most important in european public opinion! it was a vote for ecosystems, for small-scale fishermen, against the money and industrial fishing lobbies, and this vote was extremely important! it's been reported in all your countries. so i ask this parliament to keep its mandate and keep its promise for ecosystems and for artisanal fishermen all over europe, against the industrialisation of fisheries and against financial fishing! (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, we have come a long way. the european parliament had drawn up a very protective text for whistleblowers, but the council had manoeuvred to empty it of substance and it took the very legitimate concern of the european populations for these manoeuvres to fail. whistleblowers will therefore not be required to inform their superiors before disclosing information. moreover, their immediate family, as well as those who have shared in making the truth manifest, will also be protected. one point of contention remained the prohibition on disclosure of classified information relating to the protection of defence secrets. we understand the precautions that led to this limitation, but we can only think of the situation and the revelations of a julian assange, whom i am thinking of in particular today, or of a chelsea manning, who, by breaking these principles, informed international public opinion about criminal acts, which had been perpetrated for example at the time of the iraq war. so, here's the gist. the text is good, the whistleblowers are protected and we have done our job.
madam president, the army of marshal haftar, the strongman of western libya, has launched an offensive on tripoli. the government of national unity, recognised by the un, is resisting him at the cost of violent fighting. the situation is worrying, as the destabilisation of libya could have serious consequences for the whole region and beyond for europe. it is therefore right that the european states call on the belligerents to cease fire. the un mission, manul, has unfortunately failed to bring about a ceasefire. the un security council is blocked by the rivalry between the united states and russia. the us wants to encourage him to call on haftar to stop his offensive, while russia would rather encourage him to call on both belligerents to cease hostilities. the libyan conflict is in fact an expression of a struggle of influence between these two great powers, but not only between them. like russia, president macron's france is supporting haftar, which italy blames him for. europe is divided and therefore does not seem to be in a position to influence events. i am particularly sorry that france is not up to the role it should play. it was the one that destabilized libya in 2011 because of president sarkozy's reckless decision to overthrow colonel gaddafi. it is this that is now jeopardising the search for a solution. we should move forward unitedly, however, because haftar's offensive risks triggering a new wave of migration towards italy. a report by italian intelligence services says that at least 6,000 foreign refugees are in libya and are already ready to board for italy. the italian prime minister estimates that 800 000 migrants could eventually pour into europe. let us not ruin the efforts of the italian government, which have reduced the number of migrants from libya by 90% in one year. let's move forward together!
madam president, madam high representative, the situation in libya is of the greatest concern: at least 150 people have already been killed, 614 injured and 18 000 displaced since the offensive by field marshal haftar. this is the third civil war since the overthrow of colonel gaddafi in 2011. the un peacekeeping efforts are being threatened by this offensive. it is clear that the division between the member states of the european union has prevented a solution to this conflict, although some of them are directly responsible for this situation - france and italy, for example. the public's anger at the militia's disorder and the constant security threat is playing into the hands of marshal haftar, but terrorist groups in libya continue to exist and this new period of war represents a boon for these islamist militias and for daesh. this situation risks triggering a new wave of migrants and destabilising the region once again - i am thinking in particular of tunisia, which is only 150 kilometres from tripoli. the situation is explosive and the european union must take the initiative in returning to the negotiating table to find a peaceful solution, in line with the reality on the ground, in order to avoid a new bloodbath.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i hesitated a lot before i knew what i could say, what i should say in this debate which the european united left has asked for in order to support the sudanese people and express our solidarity, particularly with the thousands of sudanese women who have been demonstrating peacefully without respite since 19 december, despite the repression, the dozens of deaths, the hundreds of wounded and the thousands of arrests. as you know, madam high representative, i have often had the opportunity to denounce here the european union's relations with the dictatorship of omar al-bashir. but it is no longer the time to judge the past, or it is too early to do so. it must be about the future and for that the european union must, beyond the demand for a civilian government, put all its weight, like the african union and the troika, towards a new transitional government. no, the current military government cannot be recognized only russia, the saudis and the emiratis have done so. his number one is and was the head of the sudanese forces in yemen, and number two is the rapid force, the former janjawids. they must be tried like omar al-bashir and all those responsible for crimes against humanity in this country. we can, you can help them. you can help the sudanese people in their demand for real regime change, so that this is not just a palace revolution. there is really stability in the region.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 25 years ago, françois mitterrand used a stony but inaccurate formula in this forum: nationalism is war. the image was strong, but the thought was short-sighted. in the past, it was national armies that fought each other. the danger now threatening the northern continent from vladivostok to gibraltar is not due to one or more nationalisms but to a global demographic phenomenon of a telluric dimension. the invasion of our territories by civilian forces is nevertheless a terrible threat to our independence, our freedom and even our very survival. we have the right and the duty to confront it, with all the means necessary to defeat it. the european union is now a fetter that paralyses its member nations at a time when their defence and therefore their capacity to mobilise is more necessary than ever. there is no european nation or european people, despite what the federalists think. your assembly itself is elected by the peoples of the nations that make up the european union. the nation is the legal, moral and political framework of all the countries of the world and their highest expression is the un, the united nations. the nation therefore remains the most natural and effective framework for the life and defence of the peoples gathered there. it is from this that the national feeling, the love of one's soil, one's history, one's country comes. it is the one that transcends and extends individual destinies and is the guarantor of the future of generations. on the other hand, there is a dazzling european civilization and a concert of instincts which create the need for close cooperation between the nations of the northern continent, even beyond western europe alone. the demographic revolution, which in 50 years has brought the world's population from 3 to 8 billion, a figure that is growing exponentially, has triggered a giant migratory phenomenon of which we are only beginning to perceive the beginnings. it threatens to overwhelm the northern continent of which europe is a part, which is in a demographic deficit. a huge gap is being created between the world's needs and its productions. the misery of the world makes this continent look like an eldorado, when it is little more than a raft of the medusa that would sink under the weight of newcomers. faced with these frightening prospects, europe is powerless. what is worse, it paralyses national reactions which should mobilise the peoples who make it up. you deputies who have remained blind, deaf and dumb, the generation will curse you. (applause from the group of the european people's party)
mr president, european elections must be free and fair, and i therefore support the adoption by the council of a text which aims to protect them against possible computer disinformation campaigns. the creation of a european electoral cooperation network is also to be welcomed as it promotes the exchange of information between member states without further undermining their sovereignty. however, i would caution the european institutions against their tendency to slip from the legitimate concern to ensure cybersecurity to the temptation to censor social networks and to format information. national parties have the right to criticise the european union and even to propose replacing it with a europe of nations. we must never forget this, otherwise we will be undermining the freedom of political expression which is at the heart of european democracies.
the commission has already taken action on this. mr. mcallister, you mentioned the false information coming from moscow. i don't have many examples in mind and i'm not the russian government's lawyer, but i would like to know if you have any false information coming out of russia of a gravity comparable to, for example, that which the united states government has spread around the world by having secretary of state colin powell wave at the un podium a so-called chemical weapon of mass destruction which in reality contained only a harmless powder.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, one of the great successes of the european union is, of course, the single market. despite its shortcomings, i prefer that smes in my country can sell to 500 million europeans rather than 66 million french people. today we are taking a step further, we are creating a digital single market and in this new digital economy without rules, we are giving the union its own rules: not to be subject to foreign legislation and not to be subject to the law of the strongest economic powers. in particular, we are now preventing platforms from imposing abusive conditions on european companies using their services, and the relationship between platforms and smes needs to be balanced. the national law would then obviously be wholly inadequate. if a french person booked a room in a hotel in italy through a platform that is based in ireland, what national law would apply? is it french law, italian law or irish law? it is clear that this is not working and that european rules are obviously needed. that is what we do, we protect european smes and to protect them, we must first offer them the protection of a harmonised and common european law in the 27 states. in this text, parliament has shown that it is a democratic tool, which obeys neither lobbies nor any special interests. i have had the honour of serving in this house for two terms and, mr president, as i leave this house, i have only one word to say: preserve it.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, throughout this term of office we have seen how the issue of pesticides, authorisation procedures and food is becoming more and more important to our citizens. they want to know how the european system works and it is our duty as elected representatives and legislators to respond to that demand. the text on the table largely addresses this problem by making our procedures clearer and more transparent. it will also, i hope, restore the confidence of our citizens in our agencies and in our decision-making. the central issue is of course the timing of the data release. the balance between the pursuit of transparency and the protection of research and innovation within the european union is not so easy to find. remember that our companies and smes face global competition, so it is essential to enable them to stay ahead in development and innovation. i would therefore like to commend the work of our rapporteur, pilar ayuso, and all the fictitious rapporteurs. finally, i would like to reiterate, for the last time before the end of this mandate, my commitment to ensuring that the decisions we take are always based on sound scientific bases, which alone will enable us to have unquestionable positions so as not to accentuate food fears, which some use for political and electoral purposes. to this end, the independence and proper functioning of our agencies, in particular the european food safety authority, are fundamental.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you for this opportunity to discuss the issue of the possible extradition of julian assange. we are all aware that, when acting for the purpose of protecting the general public interest, whistle—blowers play an essential role by disclosing wrongdoing and dangers to society. therefore they deserve legal protection. i know you discussed this yesterday in the debate on the whistle—blowers’ directive. we have all been following recent events related to mr assange’s case. julian assange took refuge in the ecuadorian embassy in london in 2012 to avoid being taken to sweden to be questioned on charges of rape, molestation and unlawful coercion. he argued that his asylum claim aimed to prevent his being ultimately extradited to the united states and put on trial for publishing thousands and thousands of classified us documents. as you all know, on 11 april, ecuador withdrew mr assange’s asylum, which led to his arrest by the british police. westminster magistrates’ court subsequently found him guilty on british charges of breaching bail. in addition to charges in the united kingdom, mr assange currently faces charges in the united states, and the swedish judicial authorities have indicated that investigations may be resumed into charges of rape against him. let me clearly point out that the council as such has not discussed the issue of mr assange’s possible extradition and does not have a position on it. as a matter of fact, extraditions are a matter of the exclusive competence of member states. therefore, the matter now lies in the hands of the british judiciary and of the uk home secretary. but let me take this opportunity to stress once more that the council attaches very high importance to the protection of whistle—blowers. as a matter of fact, during the last month, parliament and the council focused their efforts on ensuring that an agreement on the whistle—blowers’ directive was reached before the end of the current legislative term. that objective was achieved and this plenary voted today on the text agreed by the negotiators of the two co—legislators.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the european parliament asked the commission to make a statement on the possible extradition of julian assange from the united kingdom. we can inform you that extradition between the united kingdom and the united states is governed by a bilateral treaty and a subsequent eu-us extradition agreement. the latter does not allow extradition in cases where there are reasons to believe it may lead to the application of the death penalty. in addition, the court of justice has also decided that a member state must refrain from an extradition if there are serious risks that fundamental rights of the suspect are affected. if sweden decides to issue a new european arrest warrant following the one that it had revoked in 2017, the uk court would have to consider whether to give precedence to this european arrest warrant over the us extradition request. there are no clear-cut eu rules in this respect but rather a list of factors to be taken into account by the court. as a general remark, i must note that the european commission does not have the competence to intervene on judicial proceedings pending in front of the courts of member states. we fully rely on the independence and professionalism of the uk courts to take the right decision, having in front of them the appropriate evidence.
i would like to confirm the commissioner's words, madam president, that i do not understand why we are debating this point on the floor of parliament. this is a specific criminal case, a specific extradition, and it will be decided under international extradition treaties. on the one hand, the british judicial system will decide, on the other hand, the united states of america is the country that is seeking extradition. both countries are states of law, so there is no doubt that the process will be conducted properly, according to international treaties, respecting the rule of law. we as politicians can think of mr. assange's actions in a certain way, we can either approve or condemn. i personally don't agree with his actions. i believe that freedom of speech has its limits and cannot compromise state secrets. and in the case of mr. assange's activities, the soldiers who fight international terrorism. but that's my political opinion. and whether mr. assange committed a crime must be decided by the courts alone. that's our basic position. it is therefore right that the european commission, as a political body, has no powers with which it could interfere in any way with the judicial system of one of the member states. so please, let the british courts process this case to determine whether the grounds for extradition are met. if so, mr. assange will be extradited to the united states of america. i have full confidence in the american judiciary to determine whether mr. assange's unacceptable behavior is a crime.
the question posed by the blue card. madam president, i listened to your speech with interest and as a former minister of justice i ask: how can parliament, as a political body, intervene in a specific criminal case and a specific extradition? we may have our own opinions on this case, i may have my own, but this is an extradition case, and we're politicians. we can't somehow protect you by using that term and interfering with the legal process in the country where the extradition is taking place. so my question is, how would you protect him?
for the greens/efa group madam president, in discussing the possible extradition of julian assange, the founder of wikileaks, to the united states, we are not only addressing the fate of a man, we are also sketching the future of our democracies. we must stand up for freedom of information and transparency, because that is what it is all about. julian assange has released disturbing information, including war crimes by the united states. rather than hold their crimes to account, governments want to silence the voices that speak out. we must counter this with our unwavering commitment to open, transparent and accountable democracies. it's his courage that's being tested today. if we agree to extradite assange, we will extradite tomorrow all those who publish sensitive information: the journalists of the guardian, the monde, the spiegel who published the documents leaked by wikileaks. france must grant asylum to julian assange and defend the colours of transparency.
the rapporteur. mr president, in december 2016, the commission proposed the revision of regulation (ec) no 883/2004 on the coordination of social security systems. the situation regarding the free movement of workers in the european union needs to be considerably improved today, since we are faced with the following paradox: a market which allows freedom of movement, but very different social systems, and therefore situations of vulnerability for workers in terms of protection of rights and the portability of rights. that was, and still is, the whole ambition of this revision. we have been working in parliament for over a year and i believe we have made three major advances. the first, and absolutely essential, is to strengthen the applicable legislation, i.e. what is the legislation applicable to a mobile worker? postal workers, for example, but they are not the only ones. to do this, one issue is essential today: ensuring that a worker is actually affiliated to a social security system and enjoys all his rights. that is why we have proposed that there should be three months of prior work before a worker can be sent to another country, to ensure that there is a link between a worker and a social security system, and of course to avoid the fraud that is so widespread. similarly, another proposal was adopted: the prior notification by an undertaking of the sending of a worker to another country. this is absolutely essential today because, as we know, a large proportion of workers sent to another country are not even known to that country. in particular, some national laws allow that, after a certain period, no document is required to work in another country and no checks can be carried out. i believe that this is a serious attack on the dignity of workers, on their safety and on their right to be affiliated to a social security system. that is the reason for this proposal for a notification. the improvement of cooperation between the member states was also desired by parliament, in particular through a very original system combining the constraint on the member states by the deposit of a bond and freedom of movement. this provides a great deal of flexibility, particularly in the ability of workers to move across borders. social justice measures are also proposed, particularly through the six months of export of unemployment benefits, because how can we imagine that someone can work for years in a country and when he leaves, he is only entitled to three months of export of unemployment benefits? six months is better. it may not be enough, but it's enough. we had also, of course, envisaged freedom of affiliation to the social security system for frontier workers, which is a great step forward. i would like to say the following, particularly and mainly to the right, to the right-wingers, but not only: do not think that it is by imitating populism and nationalism that you will respond to populism and nationalism. it is even sometimes such a paradox that some nationalists have become wiser than you on the subject of the coordination of social security systems. let us stop this permanent parliamentary obstruction, let the debate take place, let us vote so that we, as parliament, can have a strong position for the next term. so, yes, let's vote on this proposal at first reading. as for the future, i would like to thank the commissioner for all the work she has done and give her my full support for the coordination regulation to be revised by a simple majority in the council in order to remove the blockages identified, notably no later than two weeks ago. this would be a major step forward for european workers who could finally be protected against national egotism.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, our group has taken a position of waiting and reflection on this text. the text which allows free movement of persons is very old, but it can be understood in the context of the cooperation we want to see within the european alliance of nations to which we aspire. we believe that this text brings some improvements, particularly in terms of the security afforded to crossborder workers and to families whose parents work in different countries. but we also, of course, establish as an absolute dogma the principle that the country which collects the contributions must be the one which pays the benefits. but we also have some regrets about this text. we deplore the determination of the scope of long-term illnesses, which in france account for 70% of the social security budget, a rate which must be comparable in many european countries. we also regret that the legal obligation to reside has disappeared in the text presented by the rapporteur and that only the case law is relevant, which is itself subject to interpretation. finally, we regret that opposition, particularly from the right, has not enabled us to secure prior authorization. that is why the trilogue could not succeed. however, it is quite clear that we want this text to be adopted, since it is a step forward, but we are asking that it should provide for a system to prevent potential fraud: prior authorization is essential.
the rapporteur. madam president, madam commissioner, since this is your last speech, i would like to say that, although i am a supporter of the left-right divide, you have shown me that sometimes many people on the right can be more progressive than many people on the left. i wanted to thank you for that. you know what gandhi used to say: we think that the enemy is hate, when in fact it is fear. i heard a lot of fear in the speeches this morning. many of these fears lead to a lot of nonsense, for example, by claiming that allowing the export of only six months of unemployment benefits acquired by working 20 years in a country would be a gift that some workers in eastern europe would take advantage of to the detriment of those in the north or west. we know that a study by the european parliament has shown that exporting six months of unemployment benefits makes it easier to integrate into the labour market and to find a job again than with three months, but the opposite is always the case here! members of parliament from northern and western europe do not say a word about the large companies which organise social dumping, because it is not the workers in the east who organise social dumping, it is these very large companies, and they do not seek at any time to force these large companies to ensure effective protection for workers. i can see that fear is now the dominant force, the fear of these large multinationals, which you do not dare to confront today, and i find this extremely sad. i am particularly saddened to hear some speak first of the workers of their country rather than of all european workers and say that some of these voices, fortunately a minority, call themselves leftists! how can we talk first of all about our country, about the interests of our country, because there are european elections, without first of all taking an interest in all the workers who share common interests, precisely in the face of these large companies, which we know are competing workers against each other to weaken our protections for all? so yes, i appeal to all the progressives in this parliament, to all those who think that europe can be synonymous with progress, or indeed that europe only makes sense if it brings progress for all citizens, regardless of their nationality, that this is the principle on which europe is based. so yes, i am calling on them, not to say that this text is perfect, that it solves everything, but that it is a sign today of unity, progress and peaceful relations between workers, of the fight against unfair competition that we are trying to create between them, in short to ensure that at last europe and progress are two words that rhyme together.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, mr prime minister, the terrible fire that has struck notre dame de paris is of course a reminder of the fragility of our heritage. the sight of one of the most beautiful jewels and symbols of our european civilization being destroyed by fire has struck a chord in the hearts of the french and europeans. fortunately, the admirable efforts of the firefighters saved a large part of the building, which can now be restored to its former glory. and what a joy to learn that the treasure of our lady, the crown of thorns and the tunic of saint louis were saved! but this tragedy must provoke a shock, a consciousness of the need to protect, to transmit our heritage, of course, but, more generally, our heritage of european and christian civilization. mr prime minister, you mentioned earlier those whom you call the eurosceptics, considering that they would be opposed to the very idea of european construction. you are making a total mistake: we believe in europe. we are convinced that there is a european civilization, a common culture, and that there are immense challenges to be faced together. but this will also requires lucidity. you said earlier, when it comes to immigration, that you had no solution, that we could do nothing to prevent this immigration. the reality is that we can act and matteo salvini in italy shows it every day. but there are clearly two choices: on the one hand, mr avramopoulos, the european commissioner, who told us that immigration was needed to make up for the demographic deficit, and on the other, the courageous governments in italy and hungary, which are implementing major social, fiscal, family support and european birth-rate policies. clearly, there are two opposing views, those who accept or encourage immigration and those who want immigration to be firm and european births to be encouraged. in economic terms, the european union has been characterised by the abolition of all protections: internally, with the common market, unfair competition, and seconded work; and externally, by the multiplication of free trade agreements and the lowering of customs tariffs. today, china or the united states are protecting themselves, are able to put in place all the necessary protections for their domestic market and, of course, are conquering, offensive, in the rest of the world. they often use the european continent as a space where they can act economically very freely, often at the expense of our real economy, our production units and our employees. here again, clearly, two political visions are clashing, between those who see the european economic area as a totally open playing field and those who, like us, want a europe that is economically and commercially protected. europe must also reconnect with democracy in its institutional organisation. in the face of the exorbitant power of the european commission, i heard mr weber, the socialists and the supporters of emmanuel macron in france say that we had to go even further by abolishing the unanimity rule, a new clique in federalism. the same people will also be calling for the abolition of the qualified majority tomorrow, then for the end of the simple majority, and finally for an increasingly opaque and authoritarian system. clearly, there are two opposing visions: the europe of nations, the europe of cooperatives, or the europe of the commission with the acceleration towards federalism. we are five weeks away from the european elections. the european construction is obviously at a crossroads. the european continent has the capacity to make a breakthrough and to renew itself, so that our nations can once again shine collectively on the world stage. but this requires breaking with the current big dogmas of the european union and finally breaking free from the technocratic logic. europe must protect its economy or become the lackey of the other great powers. europe will put nations and peoples back at the heart of its project or it will fall apart. europe will defend its roots, its identity and its civilisation or it will disappear.
mr president, mr prime minister, dear old colleague, you are talking about the future of the european union. let us be frank, this future will be very dark if we do not radically change our perspectives. in the 30 years i have been in this parliament, i have seen a perverse group dynamic develop, promethean, i should say luciferian, such that the majority of our colleagues have thought themselves capable of giving the whole world principles which they proclaim but which they do not follow in relation to their colleagues in the minority. they also believe that they have a mandate to manage all aspects of the political, economic, social, cultural and even sexual life of 500 million europeans. they believe they are participating in the radiant construction of a euromondist superstate full of directives, overloaded with norms, rules and constraints, but open to competition from countries that have none or very little of them. mr prime minister, you whose country has freed itself from the oppression of the union of soviet socialist republics, do not give in to the mirage of the new world soviet union that is brewing here. we need to change direction. we must build our europe on the true values of our civilization, on acceptance of life and not on mass abortion, on the family and not on the systematic promotion of sexual minorities, who do not ask for it so much. the widespread mix of people, goods and capital does not necessarily guarantee prosperity or happiness. the cooperation of free nations must be organized by precise, quantified programmes in concrete areas whose costs and benefits could be measured by the citizens. the people are revolting against those who want to force them, who despise their particular identities, who ignore their will. right here, we have broken down the walls of lies and misinformation that have prevented patriots from different countries from communicating with each other. the nations are finally beginning to see the hypocrisy in this world. we have sown, others will reap, who know that the freedom of nations is the condition for the maintenance of our european civilization. long live the alliance of free peoples in a renewed europe of nations.
member of the commission. – mr president, i don’t hide from you that i consider the european borders and coast guard one of my key proposals, an essential element of a comprehensive migration policy. we have not only created but also installed and strengthened the european border and coast guard in record time with our joint work and efforts. knowing very well the complexity of the legislative procedures, we all agree that it is indeed an achievement. i would like to express my heartfelt thanks to our rapporteur, ms metsola, and all the shadows and the romanian presidency as well, for having found a well-balanced compromise on this proposal. this agreement highlights once again that, when working together, we can bring real results and show to our citizens that the union is willing and able to act. when the crisis, as you all remember, peaked in europe in the summer of 2015, europe was taken by surprise and was not prepared. confronted with an inflow of irregular arrivals through our eastern and southern borders (the mediterranean sea), we knew that we had to take resolute action. there was no consolidated european borders agency, no hot spots or an operational presence on the ground at the eu level. the european asylum system proved not to be fit for purpose. our information systems did not talk to each other, and our approach in engaging with third countries was fragmented. we were forced to take both immediate and long-term measures and to work on all these fronts in parallel. now, four years later, anyone trying to cross our external borders irregularly is identified, fingerprinted and thoroughly screened. today we have an up-and-running european borders and coast guard agency and reinforced migration, border and security information systems, which are progressively becoming interoperable. with the new regulation that we are debating now, we will be able to achieve more. one of its key elements is a european border and coast guard standing corps, which will be gradually and swiftly established in its full capacity of 10 000 by 2027. however, we will be able to observe the first deployments already on 1 january 2021. the other key element of this proposal, and an important game-changer, is that the agency’s own statutory staff will also be team members with executive powers. this means that they will carry out border management and return tasks in their own right. of course, the competent authorities of the host member state will remain responsible for, and have command and control of, the european border and coast guard activities taking place on its territory. while remaining under the authority of the host member states, some of the tasks will include the possibility to check identity documents, to authorise or refuse entry at border crossing points, to stamp travel documents, to patrol borders and stop persons who have crossed the borders irregularly, and to assist in the implementation of return procedures, notably by preparing return decisions or escorting non-eu nationals who are subject to forced return. the operational staff of the standing corps will also receive common training to ensure that the highest professional standards are applied and respected and a common operational culture is developed among the staff. the compromise will ensure that the agency can better and more actively support the member states in the area of return in order to improve the european union’s response to persisting migratory challenges. i welcome also many other developments agreed by the co-legislators as part of this regulation, such as streamlining of the monitoring of the fundamental rights within the agency’s operational activities. the respect of fundamental rights is at the heart of all commission initiatives, including this one. all of the activities of the european border and coast guard agency and the member states’ competent authorities will respect the fundamental rights enshrined in the charter. the agency will work closely with the future eu asylum agency to ensure effective access to asylum procedures. the agency will also help to ensure that those that are not in need of international protection are returned in full respect, i repeat, of fundamental rights. i hope that once the next parliament is in place, the proposal to set up the eu’s asylum agency will be quickly adopted. i hope so. i also want to add that i regret that the possibility of a monthly differential payment to the statutory staff members was not retained in the final agreement. this aimed to improve the attractiveness of the agency as an employer, to ensure timely recruitment of statutory staff. we will forward a declaration in this regard to this parliament. last but not least, a new political steering for the implementation of the european integrated border management will be put in place as well. this will include a planning of capabilities for the european border and coast guard as well as ensuring coherence and consistency with the european union’s overall external policy. indeed, with this new regulation, both the agency and the member states will have the tools to anticipate and respond to future crises at the eu’s external borders. ultimately this will also help preserve the long-term viability of the schengen area of free movement. thank you very much for your attention, and i’m looking forward to your views. commission statements(in writing) “acknowledging the challenges faced by the ebcg agency in the coming years to fulfil the exceptional needs for recruiting and retaining of qualified staff from the broadest possible geographical basis in the view of building up the agency’s standing corps, and considering the substantial mobility of these staff members and the need to ensure equal treatment among them, the commission proposed concrete arrangements. these proposed arrangements were of a temporary nature and subject to a review clause, in order to assess their contribution to the objectives pursued and to take account of other ongoing processes having an impact on staff remuneration, including the continuous monitoring and improvement of the statistical methodology used to calculate correction coefficients under annex xi to the staff regulations. in this context while taking note of the joint statement by the european parliament and the council, the commission strongly regrets that the co-legislators decided not to retain its proposal to allow the agency's management board to temporarily grant a monthly differential payment to the statutory staff members. the commission believes that this decision may be detrimental to the attractiveness of the agency as employer and to create optimal conditions for the timely recruitment of statutory staff as a prerequisite for the swift establishment of the standing corps in coming years. moreover, in response to the joint statement by the european parliament and the council, the commission notes that it has neither obligation nor intention at this stage to present any proposal for the revision of the staff regulations. the commission notes that the co-legislators recently amended the rules for updating remuneration and pensions under annex xi to the staff regulations and included a clear timeline for a possible subsequent review, on the basis of a report to be submitted by the commission in 2022. the commission believes that the latter report should provide an opportunity to assess the existing system and notably its impact on the attractiveness of eu institutions and agencies as employers. the commission also notes that, within the existing legislative framework, eurostat and national statistical institutes have initiated discussions on the possibility to update the statistical methodology of correction coefficient calculation in order to take into account expenditure incurred outside the place of employment.”
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in september 2018, president juncker presented a new reform of the frontex agency and, two years ago, as rapporteur on this text, i already welcomed the completion of this first revision at an important moment. today, on behalf of my group, i am doing the same thing in the record time we have, although i may regret a number of points. today, however, i am satisfied with the speed with which we have completed this dossier, adopting a balanced approach, effective in protecting our borders and respectful of fundamental rights, as our citizens asked us to do. i particularly note and welcome the real progress in terms of budgets, capacities and skills, as has just been emphasised. i would like to return to two points. first of all, i am pleased that we have signed the agreement on the creation of a permanent contingent which will eventually consist of 10 000 coastguards/border guards and to which the member states will have to contribute. it is much more credible and just as effective and practical as the 1,500-person reserve that currently exists and which does not work well. it is therefore a concrete and necessary step forward. secondly, i have fought, again as rapporteur on this review, for the final text to include a reference to the establishment of a frontex training centre. indeed, if we want to go beyond the national vision of border protection in the european union, the member states are competent and they will play a fundamental role, if we want to be effective in our european schengen area of free movement, if we want there to be as few gaps as possible, we must be european, we must be a european tool and the agency must be able to collaborate with the authorities of the states, not just support them. but if this is to be practical, we must develop a genuine european culture of training. this is what the text calls for and inscribes. in conclusion, i would like to thank once again our rapporteur, roberta metsola, whose work, energy, determination and excellent cooperation have enabled us to make rapid progress. in a few hours, my group and i will of course be voting in favour of this new reform.
mr president, it was probably necessary to strengthen the frontex agency, because our common borders must be managed at european level. i therefore support this reform of the european border and coast guard, which must be accompanied by respect for the fundamental rights of persons checked at the external borders. however, i would like to express two regrets at the end of this mandate, regrets which are also wishes for the future. firstly, i regret that we have not been able to impose an active search and rescue at sea mandate on frontex. more than 2,200 people died in the mediterranean in 2018. when ngos take risks and member states are left to fend for themselves, a european agency would be welcome to do the rescue. the air-call theory is not true: for more than six months, ngos have been operating at sea, member states have closed their ports, and yet people continue to cross and smugglers still take advantage. secondly, i regret that we are adopting the second reform of frontex, whereas no reform has been adopted as regards the european asylum system. the fault lies with the member states who are blocking the european asylum system, even though parliament has been putting its position on the table for more than two years.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, population movements have never been so great in the world. one billion people, mostly from the north, move, travel from one country to another every year. you should know, mr deprez, that 500 million people enter the european union every year. there are 250 million migrants in the world, people who move for more than a year to a place other than their own for a variety of reasons. of these, 60 million were born in europe. this code, despite all the efforts of our rapporteur, lacks a balance between facilitating travel, especially tourism, strengthening procedural guarantees, regular migration and so-called 'irregular' migration. european policies, despite the realities, despite the deaths, are increasingly turning to border control, the fight against so-called 'irregular' migration and the return of those who do not have the chance to access regular routes of residence because they were not born in the right place. however, these regular migrations are 20 times larger than the so-called 'irregular' ones, about 2.5 million each year. that's good. in reality, it is mainly refugees who are being shut out, which is why one of my main regrets during the two mandates i have just completed is the refusal of the council, of the member states, to create humanitarian visas, because 90% of those to whom the european union has granted international protection in the last three years have arrived illegally. we could do it differently. mr president, 30 seconds, if i may, because this is also my last speech. i would like to thank all those who have helped me during these two terms: my colleagues, i see many of whom i have had the pleasure of working with, regardless of the political groups, and i congratulate myself; the staff of the groups, my collaborators, but also all the officials of the assembly, whoever they may be, visible or invisible, our interpreters, but also all those who enable us to work in very good conditions, who are not seen and yet are there. i thank you all very much and i shall continue to follow the work of the european parliament with interest and attention, because it is not a useless place, as many of our fellow citizens would have us believe, because of certain speeches. for me, it's a place where i learned a lot.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the amendment to the european visa code which is being proposed to us today is officially intended, i quote, to facilitate travel by third country nationals to the european union. so this is a new immigration tool that i strongly oppose. for example, short-stay visas are imprudently facilitated. this means that foreigners will now be able to apply for them at our borders, which will increase the risk of errors and abuses. the text also resists the reasonable idea of refusing to issue visas to nationals of states which refuse to take back their illegals. it would be a common sense measure to protect europe. the principle of this measure is officially established, but the conditions for its implementation are so complex that they deprive it of any practical significance. the text also envisaged, in its first version, the creation of a new legal immigration channel, by creating european humanitarian visas. this was all the more shocking as it obviously would not have caused the decrease in illegal immigration, which was the stated objective. fortunately, this delusional idea has been abandoned. we are on the verge of a large-scale migration flood, linked to the population explosion in africa. just because we take a few hundred thousand legal migrants does not mean we will not have millions of illegal migrants. the schengen system has failed. it must be replaced by much more effective protection of the national borders and the external borders of the union. i am particularly pleased that my last speech of this parliament gives me the opportunity to recall this in this house. the last debate i am taking part in today is not about the accessory, but about the essential: it is the future of european civilisation that is at stake.
thank you mr lamberts, it was a pleasure to hear from you and i hope we will have the opportunity to hear from you again.
thank you, mr. freund. i'm not sure i appreciated your rhymes, but those thanks were most welcome.
the agenda calls for votes. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is my last speech to the plenary. the report i am submitting to you for your approval is a regulation which provides for emergency measures to protect the budget of the european union in the event of a no-deal brexit. we are measuring here how modest our budget is - it should be remembered that 1% of the european gross domestic product depends on national contributions. on the eve of leaving this parliament, i would like to share with you my ideal, my fear and my conviction. my ideal is that the budget of the european union should be that of a world power. i fear that the member states are not prepared to increase their contributions. i believe that the increase in the budget of the european union will have to be matched by cuts in national budgets. this implies transfers of appropriations from national budgets to the european budget. and so my wish is that the next mandate will identify the european commons, those public assets which, clearly, because of globalisation, the member states alone can no longer assume at national level to ensure our future and protect us. i would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your commitment and your excellent work, and i would like to pay particular attention to those who sit on the committee on budgets. while the union remains a struggle, and no doubt a daily struggle, my dream of europe as it was when i arrived here, thanks to you, has remained intact; better, it just got stronger. i express my gratitude and wish you the best. long live europe and long live our member states. (applause) i would like to thank
this closes the voting period.
the agenda calls for a debate on the report by mr bas eickhout, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down performance standards for co2 emissions from new heavy-duty vehicles (com ((2018) 0284 c8-0197/2018 2018/0143 cod)) (a8-0354/2018).
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this week we had young activist greta thunberg here. she came to us and said, "act! act! act now!" i hope that you, the politicians, will ensure that the next generations can live happily in a welcoming world. other if we want to meet the needs of the planet and preserve our health, if we want to reduce pollution significantly, we have to take responsibility and put the transport sector on a par with everyone else, like everyone else. only 5% of vehicles on european roads are lorries. yet these trucks produce about 25% or a quarter of the greenhouse gas emissions from road transport in the european union. if we are ever to meet the cop21 commitments to save the climate and the planet, it is high time to end this imbalance. with the text we have tabled, we are finally taking a first step towards reducing co2 emissions by 15% by 2025 and 30% by 2030 for lorries. the regulation goes further than the commission proposal. for the first time, it commits europe to reducing pollution from trucks on our roads and thus improving air quality: a victory! what does this victory show? it shows that when we, the elected officials, listen to the demands, especially those of the youth who are on strike every week to save the climate, when we turn good words into concrete actions, things can move in the right direction. we can be proud. but beware: the road is still long. if we want to preserve the chances of our children to breathe, to live freely, to be happy, to thrive on our beautiful planet, then tomorrow we must vote in favour of this text, because voting for this text is voting for the climate!
mr president, the european union is finally setting co2 reduction obligations for heavy goods vehicles! as a socialist and democrat on the transport committee, i had advocated far more ambitious targets, but the member states, particularly germany and others, influenced by their industry, have lowered these thresholds. i regret the council's lack of ambition, given that co2 emissions have been increasing steadily in the road transport sector in recent years. on the other hand, the planned review in 2022, which i had called for, will be an essential appointment to refine the legislation, if possible, to make it cover more types of vehicles and also to revise our objectives upwards. despite the lack of political will on the part of the member states, i welcome this first step: we will finally have a binding trajectory. this regulation is a step forward in tackling the scourge of air pollution and in meeting our climate objectives, in particular the paris agreement, which aims to halt or at least limit global warming. it is our responsibility to future generations. europe is taking concrete action against pollution and i am proud that my last speech in plenary underlines this progress.
member of the commission. – madam president, i welcome the chance again to discuss the european defence fund (edf) as i’m very much sure about it. it will be a game—changer for a much-lacking defence cooperation in europe. since the proposal of the commission in june last year, the work has been very intense, both in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) and then in the trilogue. today we have a partial agreement at first reading for which i hope the chamber will vote tomorrow. agreeing on the main parameters of the fund is really a key milestone towards defence union. i would like to sincerely thank at the very beginning, the negotiating team of itre. all of you were very dedicated negotiators; so the rapporteur mr krasnodębski, ms grossetête, mr riquet, mr martin, mr bütikofer, and of course not forgetting mr mcallister. thanks very much all of you. the edf will on one side enhance europe’s strategic autonomy in supporting the development of key defence capabilities, but on the other it will help increase the efficiency of public spending on defence by increasing cooperation. with the edf we are using the eu budget to co-finance defence industrial projects, incentivising cooperation in defence, increasing the competitiveness and innovative potential of the european defence industry, enhancing europe’s technological autonomy and, ultimately, positioning europe as a true security provider, of course not in contradiction with nato but in complementarity with it. edf, as partially agreed, will include many features for which this parliament has fought hard. let me just name a few, they were mentioned by the rapporteur, but let me look at this from the commission perspective. so first, eu rules will apply; no (inaudible) based on competition with a clear eu—based governance. this was an important element for the commission as, of course, the eu budget is involved here. as supported by parliament, the commission will directly implement the fund. second, we collectively maintained and even strengthened the question of the eligibility of the fund, and here the rule is very clear: we will only finance eu-based companies, companies which respect clear security conditions, so the security of supply, security of information and no transfer of knowledge from europe. we are not excluding anybody from our alliance; however, we are just setting the conditions for participation to make sure that europe’s interests are preserved. these conditions, as i keep repeating, are similar if not identical to the ones eu companies are facing when doing r&d in third countries. third point, cooperation, which is of course at the core of the fund. we are incentivising it by specific rules, also promoting the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises and mid-caps. the edf is not only for the big defence industrial groups, it is also for the smaller actors across europe. with specific bonuses we hope to open up the defence supply chain. fourth point: it has been made clear in the legal text that actions have to comply with relevant national, union and international law, as well as with the ethical principles reflected in there. as asked by parliament, the commission will issue guidance on the ethics to applicants and to the independent experts that will carry out the ethics screenings and assessment. the fund also clearly excludes actions for the development of lethal autonomous weapons without human control. fifth point: the edf will support disruptive innovation, as up to 8% of the budget will be allocated to disruptive technologies and both the commission and parliament are on the very same page here. i believe that the compromise text offers a satisfactory solution, while the annual work programme, as was mentioned by the rapporteur, shall be adopted by the implementing act. the list of priority fields was introduced to frame the content of the work programme and the commission is ready to come to parliament each year to discuss the content of the work programme. this approach, as you know, is not specific or unique to defence. there are other funding programmes, programme proposals, which make use of implementing acts and they were accepted by parliament and i wanted to underline that.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the committee on budgets, i would like to congratulate all those who have helped us to achieve this partial agreement, and in particular the parliamentary team whose members were mentioned by the commissioner. the committee on budgets considers this agreement to be one of the most innovative projects of the next multiannual financial framework. we have been fighting for years, a few of us, to ensure that defence can benefit from the union's budgetary funds. i am particularly pleased that this agreement gives the programme the full means to achieve its ambitions, including access to investeu instruments. we will have to make sure that the plenary confirms this tomorrow. finally, i welcome the very strong political signal sent by this project in an area which is central to the exercise of the sovereignty of the member states. this fund illustrates that the transfer of certain competences to the union will provide greater security at a lower overall budgetary cost.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is my last speech in this house after 25 years and i am glad that it is to speak of the european defence fund, because i hope that this new fund will be an additional tool for european integration, through the development of cooperation. this is a historic moment. i would like to take this opportunity to thank our rapporteur, mr krasnodębski, and in particular commissioner bieńkowska, who enabled us to reach an agreement fairly quickly. for too long, some have held back progress towards developing a genuine european industrial policy in the field of defence. and yet, in less than three years, we have achieved what no one thought possible. i therefore count on all the constructive european forces to adopt this very good agreement resulting from the negotiations and on the next parliament to sanction the €13 billion budget for the period 2021-2027. we must be able to attract the best and most innovative projects from industry and the member states. this fund is a direct response to the concerns of our fellow citizens. whether it is on ethics, the banning of killer robots or parliament's budgetary control, we have strong arguments against certain pacifist ideologies that put the future of our industry and the security of europeans at risk. finally, this fund is a means for europe to take matters into its own hands, to strengthen its technological and strategic autonomy. we are thus giving the european union a new capacity for independence with funding that will be directed towards european enterprises. this principle of strategic autonomy is also crucial in many other areas: space, health, energy, food and of course security and defence. because in an increasingly unstable world, we must first rely on the unity of our own forces. this is how we will have a strong european union which will make it possible to better defend and ensure the security of our states in the context of globalisation.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i understand that the commission and the council are very disappointed with this draft agreement, given that they have got what they wanted, and in particular the fact that there is no delegated act. this may seem to some to be a technical problem, but to me it is not a technical problem: it is a question of the european parliament's power of control, and therefore of the citizens, over this 13 billion programme on such a sensitive subject. other points are also considered by some as details. i do support the amendments which will be put to the vote tomorrow, particularly those relating to ethics (article 7) and certain weapons prohibitions (article 11), for example. indeed, it is not enough to simply refer to international law, which is ambiguous. the use of white phosphorus for tracer munitions for concealment purposes is permitted, but its indiscriminate and incendiary use is prohibited under the geneva conventions. there have been cases of use condemned by the international community against civilians, notably in gaza. the other case is that of depleted uranium. its production, use and trade as ammunition are criminally suppressed in belgium, but are not necessarily regulated elsewhere, nor are they regulated in international law. in short, since everything that is not prohibited is allowed, it is necessary to formally list the armaments in which it is not desirable for the european union to invest. finally, on arms export issues, it is not acceptable for parliament to endorse the council's approach of full discretion for member states. indeed, such an interpretation is contrary to the famous eight criteria of the 2008 common position and does not take into account the fact that all european states have ratified the arms trade treaty. if these are details to you, they are of the utmost importance to me.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank our rapporteur, mr krasnodębski, for the work he has carried out with great patience. i shall not go back to the technical content of this very important proposal, which has been detailed by the rapporteur and the commissioner. i would like to stress more politically the importance of this breakthrough for the european union, whose history will be remembered. we have been waiting since 1954, when the failure of the defence community marked european history. in 2019, we're going back to that failure and starting to rebuild the first elements of this community. on a highly sovereign subject such as this, it is a true sign of trust and solidarity between european states to set up a fund at community level to avoid duplication of defence research and development, reduce costs and achieve significant economies of scale. the fact is that the environment is increasingly uncertain at our own borders, that our allies are sometimes unstable, and that we need to do better and strengthen our security. the european framework is relevant for this very purpose. this fund will allow us to better integrate defense tools. this is not, of course, a simple technical or budgetary measure, but an important political step forward in integration. i regret that amendments are being tabled with the sole purpose of undermining the agreement reached in the trilogue. the assurances obtained under this agreement were largely relevant and it is surprising that a subject of such importance should be raised by such mediocre means. i am going to appeal to all my colleagues tonight who believe in europe, who believe in a stronger integration, the defence of which is a highly evocative symbol. let us mobilise for a safer europe that protects its citizens. let's support this new defense fund. tomorrow, let us lay the foundation stone of the building of a defence europe, with the ultimate aim of ensuring our industrial and strategic autonomy in the defence industries and ensuring the security of our citizens.
mr president, commissioner, we welcome the framework for minimum harmonisation of national systems that will be created by the european legislative corpus. it will develop a useful bank refinancing tool and contribute to the deepening of the capital markets union. it should be remembered that the low-risk covered bonds allowed banks to continue issuing in difficult market conditions, for example in 2008 at the height of the financial crisis. the texts will of course take account of the specific characteristics of each national covered bond market. for example, it is possible to mix different hedging assets in the hedging basket such as exposures to public persons and mortgages in france, but also in germany, denmark, sweden, spain, italy or poland. they have therefore been designed as a common base of best practice with the possibility of obtaining the european label. it now remains for financial market participants to take up this label to ensure a healthy development of this market, which allows a better cross-border allocation of capital, while maintaining a high level of investor protection and issuing capacity, including in times of financial turbulence for banks.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which is a very important one. this partial and provisional agreement on the investeu programme, which is part of the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework, is a strong and positive message that the european parliament is proud to send to the council with a view to increasing investment for jobs and sustainable growth in europe, in view of the success of the first investment plan, the juncker plan, from january 2021. this will allow the financing - it has already been said - of local projects in the field of research, sustainable infrastructure, innovation, digitisation, support for smes, which is very important, but it will also provide guarantees that will make it possible to introduce an ethical and sustainable character of finance, which is also important. this is a key partnership between the european commission, the european investment bank and national and local investment banks to drive forward selected environmental and social projects, in line with our commitments to respect the paris agreement and the united nations sustainable development goals. i would like to make a comment on the fourth strand of action mentioned earlier by the rapporteur, josé manuel fernandes, which indicates that social and skills investments can be made today. this is the support available today for the cultural and creative sectors. i think that a close link is now established between public investment and the european agenda for culture. art and culture, as you know, could no longer be left out of the great debates. europe can reinvent itself, turning to women and men. a europe with a history, a europe of stories, a europe of culture. finally, more than just an investment or a financial instrument, investeu should be the stepping stone to a european union that accompanies the changes and also participates in the paradigm shift that our societies are currently undergoing. europe today must also be built in a progressive way and it is a europe that must address our fellow citizens. it is therefore up to us to make their hope, an ambitious european hope, a reality.
mr president, madam commissioner, the adoption of this text on the creation of the investeu programme is in line with what was undertaken by this european commission, under the impetus of the socialist and democratic group, with the juncker plan, namely the european fund for strategic investment in 2015, renewed in 2017. although partial, as we await the financial provisions and the multiannual financial framework agreement for the period 2021-2027, this agreement is to be welcomed. the governance component provides a better balance, providing for the establishment of a strategic steering committee comprising representatives of the commission and the eib, other implementing partners, including national development banks, and an independent expert appointed by the european parliament. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the european union must take ownership of sustainable infrastructure and social investment, including cultural and creative activities. two points of caution, though. first, the question of calibrating environmental ambitions, which must absolutely live up to our commitments, i.e. in line with the 40% of the expenditure in the multiannual financial framework dedicated to greening the european economy. secondly, the question of the eib's statutes, since the commission has again chosen to make it its preferred partner. the next parliament will have to look at this question of the governance of the eib, because it is not optimal, including in terms of the rights and powers of this parliament.
in writing. simplifying the design of european programmes is obviously a good idea as supporting private investment must remain a priority within the european union. smes account for 99% of all businesses and it is regrettable that so many of them, especially start-ups, still face funding difficulties. that said, the success of investeu will depend not only on its total budget but also on its ability to effectively address genuine market failures, thus targeting operations with an adequate risk profile. it is clear that this has not always been the case in the past. indeed, with regard to the cosme and innovfin programmes, for example, the european court of auditors has already pointed out that they have, in the end, mostly had a positive effect by supporting many projects which would have had no difficulty in finding appropriate private funding. as for investeu, the future will tell whether the european union is about to repeat itself rather than learn from its mistakes. however, it is worrying that its predecessor, the juncker plan, is being used as a model, given its mixed success. thank you.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, i admit that this parliament has been a missed opportunity on endocrine disruptors. as my colleagues have said, the who has been talking about a global threat since 2013. thousands of scientific publications tell us that endocrine disruptors are involved in many chronic diseases: some hormone-dependent cancers, obesity, diabetes, loss of iq in children because pregnant women ingest endocrine disruptors and that this can have an impact on the metabolism of children, infertility, etc. what is the commission doing? you're just buying time. frankly, you told us you had a strategy in 1999, but for 20 years, what have you done? who made you evolve? it is the european parliament that has made you evolve! it took a swedish minister and the parliament to go to the european court of justice to tell the commission: 'do your job!' you were outside the european treaties to define, precisely, what an endocrine disruptor is. as a member of parliament, i think it is fortunate that we members of parliament are here to protect the health of european citizens. what do you suggest? the precautionary principle should be used, and people should be kept to a minimum. the reports by mrs demeneix of the cnrs and mr slama of inserm show us that there is an increase in exposure of pregnant women and the general population, but you do not present any specific action plan. the resolution we are proposing says to you: 'let's go!'. there is no common, horizontal, legislative definition of endocrine disruptors in cosmetics, toys, additives and food containers. there is only one for biocides and pesticides. and then there's reach. it's still incredible! as for the evaluation tests, they do not even cover all the applications for authorisation of substances. who are we kidding? i really ask you, for the next parliamentary term, to have an action plan, to take up the proposals of the parliamentarians to eliminate these endocrine disruptors, as well as carcinogens, mutagens and reproductive toxicants. it's about the health of the citizens. our objective is not to make the lobbies prosper, but to protect the health of citizens... (the president withdrew the floor)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected. i do not know what i will defend in the outgoing commission's report, but i am sure that we must welcome the marriage of environmental and financial issues. we owe this to a number of officials and senior officials in the european commission, including vice-president dombrovskis. i think it's a success. during the negotiations under the chairmanship of mr paul tang, we made progress with this text. the most important part is the scope. we therefore demanded that all financial products be subject to this obligation to disclose information. we are advocating an ambitious vision for sustainable finance. the commission's proposal was geared towards the introduction of transparency obligations for actors and assets that were part of the green financial sector: this was a first step against greenwashing, but it risked reinforcing the trend of sustainable finance to lock itself into niches where fund managers would invest marginally to give themselves a greener image without fundamentally changing their funding mode. on the contrary, we are asking the entire financial sector to publish information on the environmental impact of its investments, and particularly large companies, which have the most significant impact. we also advocate the need for financial reform as a whole. the report also calls on investors to exercise due diligence in their asset management, i.e. to identify the environmental impact of their choices and to integrate this information into their decision-making process. it is about being transparent, but also about changing the practices of financial actors. consumers must be given greater choice in their investment choices. this is a very significant step and the next european parliament will have to continue along this path.
author. mr president, the eu-china summit in april left us with a bitter taste when, in our dialogue with the chinese giant, the issue of human rights and religious and ethnic minorities was once again avoided. while china timidly reiterates in the declaration that all human rights are, it says, universal, indivisible, interdependent, inseparable, there are alarming pressures on the freedoms of minorities, whether it is xinjiang with the uighurs, whether it is the destruction of churches, acts of torture or repression under the guise of sinization, or whether it is the tibet autonomous region, where beijing has deployed unprecedented surveillance and control measures against tibetans and even banned access to international observers and journalists. this is what we have been denouncing with thomas mann and the tibet intergroup. it is not for our european continent to teach lessons, but to show that human rights are not negotiable. that's the point of the resolution. i would like to take this opportunity, mr president, of making my last speech in this house, at the end of three terms, to thank warmly and sincerely all the colleagues, all the great teams with whom i have had the opportunity to work, all the departments of parliament. these 15 years in the service of europe have been very rich for me thanks to all of them and i will continue this fight in the service of humanism and europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, china is a great country, an empire, indeed the middle kingdom. we in the west destroyed this empire in the 19th century, by the gunboat policy which forced it to open its borders, by the opium imposed, by the ideological marxism which also contributed to the total destruction of this country. and this country has rebuilt itself, despite everything. it has been rebuilt thanks to a liberal state policy geared towards economic development. so who are we to lecture? there is tibet, of course, and there are christians - and i agree - but who are we, who fought for alsace, who fought in two world wars and several religious wars, who killed each other for political reasons, under the guise of religion? so i welcome criticism of china, but it might be good for this parliament to stick to the un charter.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, first of all, we should pay a deep tribute to the armed forces and to the cameroonian civilians who are engaged in a ruthless fight against boko haram. the resolution also calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations are not compromised by the threat of terrorism. and it is despite a very difficult internal situation that it has long hosted thousands of nigerian refugees fleeing islamist barbarism. these are the facts of the war in cameroon, light years away from the vitriol portrait that some believe is worth painting. this country, a guarantor of stability in a region torn by multiple tensions, is ill-suited to excessive simplifications. first, because the differences between english and french speakers are less the result of deep antagonisms than of well-understood economic interests. the main national hydrocarbon reserves are located off the english-speaking regions and the management of the public companies that control them is a major challenge. secondly, because the cameroonian government has agreed to considerable reforms, i am thinking of course of the commission for bilingualism and multiculturalism, the wider openness, anglo-saxon law in the supreme court and the national school of administration and judiciary, and finally the recruitment of bilingual teachers. moreover, the pluralist society of cameroon cannot be defined by this single division. how many english speakers live in french-speaking territories today and vice versa? however, they all share the same values, the same cultural references and the same love for their country. this is the cameroon we must support without bias, without interference and above all without condescension.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is my last speech in this parliament. i do it for a country that i love very much, that i have visited many times and that i am also a son of. cameroon is a very fragile ethnic, linguistic and religious mosaic. paul biya may have gone too far in the process of centralisation, fuelling resentment among the english-speaking populations in the west and muslim separatism in the north. but this separatism is fuelled and exploited by outside powers. paul biya has been in power for 37 years. but, my friends, that's 37 years of stability. when i look at other countries, cameroon looks good. the cameroonian president may know that he cannot monopolize power until he dies, but he is caught in the logic of power and succession. he knows that, in the interests of his country, a process of democratic transition and decentralisation, combined with a security and development plan, is essential. so you have to help him, but in a discreet and helpful way. let us therefore avoid interfering in this process, with the help of humanist right-wing fanfare, while we always apply double standards, according to african countries and according to our interests.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, in brunei, it is nothing more or less than a deadly disease. male homosexuality and infidelity are punishable, in the strict application of islamic law, by stoning to death. as for female homosexuality, 40 lashes and a prison sentence would suffice - sorry about that. funny difference in treatment between men and women. the ridiculous argue with the ugly, that's the sharia. so insulting the prophet would be punishable by death. however, a few metres from here, the european court of human rights, of which you are a member, has rightly and scandalously, in the judgment in e.s. v. austria, denied any right to criticise islam. as long as the european court of human rights shows such tolerance for radical islam, we cannot claim to be fighting against odious regimes like that of brunei. once again, weakness and hypocrisy reign in this institution. first let freedom of thought be exercised here and let us not give ourselves a clear conscience elsewhere. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to the work that has been carried out here and i would like to wish my successors good luck in working towards a european alliance of free peoples and sovereign nations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for being so many of you today to wear the yellow daffodils. they remind us of the memory of that terrifying anniversary of the desperate uprising of the warsaw ghetto. for several days, thousands of people in warsaw wore these flowers from all over the country to say "never again". this is the last day of this term of office, and this daisy reminds us of the main purpose of the europe we are working to build: peace and respect for human dignity. i hope that you will all continue to support this will everywhere in the future. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president of the parliament, mr rainer, i shall be extremely brief, because i know that people do not like long speeches. i have spoken very little in this parliament in 15 years. i promised the french people, the voters, that i would do a hard job. i hope i've made it with you, thanks to you. i promised to serve only three terms, this is the third and i'm sticking to it. i would therefore like to greet you all and simply say to you, mr president - and this concerns you as a neighbour of france - a very simple thing: europe will live. europe will live on despite those who would like to relegate our countries behind the borders. because europe is the europe of the hungarian joel brand, who saved tens of thousands of jews; it's the one of marek edelman and the ghetto we just talked about; it is the story of wałsa and bałka, the two polish masters who liberated their country from the yoke of communism. this is the case of helmut schmidt and helmut kohl. gisi fleischmann, the slovak woman who saved lives during the war, including children; this is václav havel's and this is my friend simone veil's. thank you, colleagues, for teaching me to be a better citizen than i was when i first arrived. even those who opposed my work eventually learned something from it. i leave with much gratitude and i carry in my heart the humility and the hard work that each of us has done. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. mr president, this request is in fact a repeated request, since it was already made on monday, but parliament, i remind you, rejected it. and now the conservative right is trying to simply obstruct a democratic debate and vote. we have had this debate, and now it is time to vote so that this parliament, on a subject as essential as workers' rights, does not remain silent at the end of this parliamentary term, which would be a great deal.
mr president, i am one of those newly elected members who have come to this house with a few illusions still. i have heard some fine speeches this morning on the values of democracy, on the values of respect for minorities, in short on what is classified as values without ever really putting anything concrete into them. unfortunately, yesterday i was present, as were many others, when 20 per cent of the members of this house were excluded because, as another speaker said, whether you are from the ecr or the id group, it is wrong to be attached to a europe but perhaps not to the one you propose. so i'm just saying that upholding the great principles is good, applying them is better. we have seen yesterday that some friends have arranged to exclude 20% of these members. we will wait until next week, without too many illusions, to see whether these little arrangements to exclude one representative out of four or five from this house continue in the distribution of committees. if so, then i understand that your talk about democracy and values is ultimately just a sham.
mr president, mrs von der leyen, i have only one minute. so i'll be brief and get right to the point. we, the french delegation and our group, will support you at 6 p.m. so that you have a sufficiently large majority of pro-europeans in this house when the commission president is elected. we have had a rather unusual election, with nationalists predicting that they would have a majority in this house, which is now home to a majority of pro-europeanists from all quarters who are prepared to support a number of the proposals you have put forward. we found in your draft several of our proposals: the climate bank, in particular carbon neutrality, the question of the carbon tax and the minimum wage, all important elements for a number of political groups, especially among the pro-europeanists in this house. it will be necessary to go further, particularly on trade agreements, and make all trade agreements subject to the paris agreement, possibly at the initiative of the commission. i would also like to send a message to the greens in particular, because if we have a majority of pro-europeans in this house, we also need all the pro-europeans on this project. those who tell us every day that the climate emergency is the most important are right. those who tell us that this issue must be dealt with in this house because it is of european or even global significance must also, in view of your statements and proposals, be in the know. it is the first time that we have had such proposals, or at least such a commitment to the environment, in this house. we need a majority of pro-europeans around your candidacy. therefore, i call for accountability and commitment around you and a majority of pro-european people for this commission.
madam president, mrs von der leyen, a great french writer, charles péguy, wrote: 'one must have the courage to say what one sees, but even more, one must have the courage to see what one sees'. let us face reality: europe is in deep crisis, it seems doomed to impotence in the face of economic challenges, in the face of migration challenges, in the face of the great powers who today seem to be writing the history of the world. it is the fate of our civilization that is at stake today. there is only one way to reduce anxiety and scepticism: to rebuild a europe which puts itself at the service of the european peoples and which allows us to no longer suffer from the imbalances of globalisation, from the lack of strategy which has caused us to lose our industrial strength, our know-how and our capacity to produce what we consume. i am thinking in particular of farmers and i regret that they were not mentioned more this morning. agriculture is the first policy of the european union and we will never accept here in the epp that it should be used as an adjustment variable. we do not want to suffer any more from the imbalances that are causing the ecological crisis and it is to meet this challenge that europe, thank you for saying so this morning, must finally impose a carbon levy on all the countries that export to the european union. we do not want to suffer the same impotence in the face of the migration crisis. yes, every death in the mediterranean is a tragedy. but yes, each of these tragedies is the result of a single cause which is our own impotence. too many people take all the risks to come to europe, because they know that the only way to settle there is to come illegally. the external borders of europe must finally be controlled and this is the duty of humanity that commands it. to welcome is not to suffer, it is also the condition for restoring the balance of our societies and for passing on to future generations the magnificent civilization we have inherited. mrs von der leyen, we have a future to save and that future is very much at stake in the next five years. the people of europe are counting on us to keep our eyes open.
madam president, what are you going to say to the more than 500 million european citizens who did not vote for you? what will be your legitimacy in dealing with the climate crisis and the inequality crisis? are you going to keep telling us that the coffers are empty, as your predecessors have done? yet money for our public services, like for the ecological transition, is there. and it's located in tax havens. over 800 billion euros is the check, this check that you make every year, that the european union makes every year to tax evaders, to google, to amazon, to bernard arnault. a cheque for which all european citizens pay the price. as victor hugo said, it is the hell of the poor that makes the paradise of the rich. and this paradise has found a new president: you, mrs von der leyen. not a single commitment, not a single word, not a single action against european tax havens like luxembourg or malta. you are their candidate, mrs von der leyen, not ours, not the candidate of the european peoples. no rich man fears you, no poor man believes you. you embody the reasons for the people's anger, not the response to that anger. so, mrs von der leyen, take a good look at this, this tax evaders' cheque, we'd rather rip it up than vote for you.
mr president, mrs von der leyen, thank you for your opening remarks. however, i would like to remind you once again that there was a spitzenkandidat trial here, that we had our spitzenkandidat mr. weber. unfortunately, because of some of the great democrats, that process didn't work out and we have you as a candidate today. i am glad that, although the process of the spitzenkandidaten failed, the process of the relative majority in this parliament has succeeded. the european people's party is the relative winner of this election and i'm glad that you, as the representative of our party, are here today. the other reason i'm glad is that you're a woman. i am particularly pleased with your attitude towards gender equality, which you have emphasised. you have stressed what your commission will look like and how you will treat half the world's population and the european union. what i didn't hear much of in your speech, and i'm sure you'll elaborate on that later, since i come from the youngest member of the european union, croatia, and i know you have good relations with our government, with our minister of defence, however, i didn't hear much about the differences between east and west, between north and south, eurozone, non-eurozone, schengen, non-schengen. i think it's very important that the schengen area does get enlarged and croatia is one of the big candidates and i hope you'll work on it. i would also like to hear a few words about your position on the enlargement to south-east europe or the so-called western balkans. what i was pleased to hear in your speech was your attitude towards the economy. you said that people will not serve the economy but the economy will serve the people and we can't spend more than we earn, we must earn first and then share. i'm glad you feel that way about it. also, your green deal is welcome, regardless of whether the greens vote for you, your green deal is important for the future, for our children, for sustainability. i'm glad you're taking that into account and making it part of your portfolio. when it comes to migration, i would be glad if you could continue that plan for africa, too, i remember that mr weber even had a commissioner for africa in his programme and i would be glad if you could continue to work on that. we need to solve the african continent, and europe, in a way, still needs to be protected. in that sense i want to congratulate you and i will certainly support you and i want to remind this whole parliament once again that we really all remember what we once came together for in this alliance, which is peace, prosperity and democracy.
mr president, mrs von der leyen, welcome to the house of the european people. you have not been a spitzenkandidat nor a socialist, for the moment. he therefore knows that his accession to the presidency of the commission is by the socialist route. and you seem to be prepared to walk with us, with the commitments you referred to our group yesterday and which you have reassumed this morning, here in the house. the commission's mandate will have a socialist stamp, with greater social justice, a european minimum wage, a european unemployment insurance scheme and a european child and youth guarantee. we also appreciate his strategy for gender equality, with the elimination of the wage gap, the protection of women against gender violence and his desire to achieve parity in his future executive. mrs von der leyen, if you are elected, we will work together to implement your commitments, with directives, with regulations, with appropriate instruments and financial resources. mrs von der leyen, if you are elected, we will be delighted to work with the first woman president of the commission. i wish you a lot of happiness.
president von der leyen, you have given a very high priority to climate issues in your programme and you have also been asked for concrete measures, means and solutions in this debate. i would therefore like to draw attention to the climate and, in particular, to the forests, which are of course inextricably linked. it is very important that you are working towards a carbon-free europe and that you are going to deliver on your energy and climate strategy. in the commission's 2050 vision, the bio-economy and wood products play a major role in the transition from fossil fuels. it is very important to take care of the carbon sequestration of forests, and this is best done through active forest management and forestry rather than by limiting the use of wood. i would like to hear how you would ensure that the use of wood in europe, with its growing forest resources, is seen as a solution and not a problem in combating climate change. what are your views on this important practical matter?
the president, ursula, first of all, i would like to welcome you to the european parliament and i hope you will be able to join us. for a woman who was plucked from relative obscurity a little over two weeks ago, your performance since, and especially here today, has been truly remarkable. you have shown that you are a woman of great talent, confidence, perspective and calm, and are well equipped to do the job of commission president, which i hope you will get this evening by at least 400 plus votes. you mentioned many areas of great importance. the one that mattered most in the european elections was climate change and i welcome your practical approach to that. the one thing i would ask you is to ensure that, as we move to a low carbon economy, no one is left behind. we have to have a just transition for all - the turf cutter from ireland, the steelworker from germany, the dairy farmer from italy and the coal miner from poland. spitzenkandidaten have also been mentioned. you are, in some respects, the victim or the beneficiary of it, whichever way you look at it. would you agree with me that you could set up a working group of nominees from the council, the parliament and the commission to come forward with proposals as to how this can work in the future? that way, you could rescue the process. i was also very pleased with what you said about brexit and your consistency in the answers you gave me at the epp group reiterated here today in relation to the backstop, the withdrawal agreement and flexibility with regard to an extension if necessary. i would ask you to further underline your support for ireland in the future, as we had unwavering support from jean-claude juncker, michel barnier, etc. finally, i just want to say to you that gender equality is something that you are in the ideal position to lead and we look forward to that.
mr president, i would like to thank mrs von der leyen. on behalf of the polish social democrats, i would like to say that our sympathy for you grows with every meeting and every conversation. we want to say yes to what you said, without compromising the rule of law and without exceptions. secondly, the protection of the climate. yes, we want to breathe fresh air. yes, we want to eat healthy food, and we're glad that you said that the costs of climate protection should be spread fairly. we accept your position, your declaration on strengthening cohesion policy, including the just transition fund. we are in favour. a minimum wage to ensure a decent life in every member state, appropriate to the situation yes, we are in favour. in foreign and defence policy, we have lacked the eastern dimension: russia, ukraine, the eastern partnership - here we have a deficit. finally, there is a great geographical imbalance in the distribution of power within the european institutions: germany, italy and france are the first, the highest level; the netherlands and spain are the second level; the new member states are zero. i think you, as chairman of the committee, have to do something about it. we're hoping for some compensation.
mr president, mrs von der leyen, the european union is clearly in need of change. this was the message of the european citizens in the last elections. it is clear that they like the european union, but they do not like it as it is. they want to see him reformed, efficient and working for them. deepening internal integration is essential, but it must not come at the expense of enlargement. the integration of the balkan countries is a key issue for the future of the european union. it seems that lately they are being talked about as a security zone, but not as part of the european union. the absence of a future enlargement commissioner will be an unmistakable sign that the region is being neglected. secondly, today we have not just a union of different speeds, but a union of different standards - in food, in technology, in international transport. some are in schengen, and others have an ineffective cooperation and verification mechanism. my question is, what exactly are you going to do about it? we have heard many promises from the outgoing commission, but unfortunately no concrete results. finally, it is very important that the negotiations on the mff are completed by the end of this year, so that implementation can start at the beginning of 2021.
mr president, mrs von der leyen, i want to say that i liked the progressive and pro-european approach you presented today in your speech and in your letter to my group. i would like to tell you that you will have my vote as head of the romanian delegation in the social democratic group, but you will also have my vote for a reason that i would like to tell you, and that is a hope, the hope that you will fight against discrimination between those of us from central and eastern europe and those from the rest of the european union, that you will fight for the elimination of the double standard. we have a double standard in the schengen area. millions of romanians are humiliated every day in eu airports, eu citizens on the left, romanians on the right, things that are absolutely unjustified and that president juncker has vowed to eliminate about ten times during his term of office. he probably wanted to leave you this pleasure. will you fight against the double standard in agricultural policy? a romanian farmer, mrs von der leyen, receives half of what a farmer in the european union receives. how can there be real and fair competition in the european union under these conditions? i think something else, mrs von der leyen, because you said that you have and feel that there must be a spirit of justice in the european union. i hope that you will fight and give the necessary funds to the regions of energy and industrial transition, because there are hundreds of thousands of families, hundreds of thousands of children, hundreds of thousands of mothers who will be affected, if the regions in industrial and energy transition do not have the necessary support and that this happens now. i wish you the best of luck, mrs von der leyen.
mr president, europe needs a stronger and more united foreign security and defence policy. lack of a common foreign and security policy renders many other nice decisions meaningless. this is an area where also the commission needs to show dedication and it is my hope that the commission will be led by a president who is experienced in the area of security and defence and who has a good understanding of the shortcomings that need to be improved, also in cooperation with nato. ursula von der leyen has contributed to strengthening european defence capabilities and also in the eastern part of the european union. it is also important that she would become the first woman to hold the office of the president of the european commission. i will support ms von der leyen today because of her experience in security and defence and because she has an understanding and a vision of what is needed to make europe stronger.
mr president, the berlin wall has been down longer than it was ever up. if ever there was a representation of the enduring success of europe, this is it. more than personalities, europe is hope; more than bureaucracy, it is justice. our eu project has inspired people across generations, continents and peoples, but we have to keep working. we are not flawless; our social economy, our free and open approach to trade has raised people out of poverty, but it’s still too hard for too many. we are still too far away. i want my children’s generation to see europe as the answer as much as it was for my parents and that is why we cannot be silent when our fundamental freedoms are under threat. we can never accept that journalists like daphne caruana galizia are intimidated and killed, as she was 21 months ago today. we must protect the media. we should never let eu citizenship be sold as a commodity. we cannot allow the next generation to have more plastic than fish in their seas. if we cannot find a bold fix for our environment and for our climate now, we never will. equally, we cannot allow issues like migration to become existential questions that are argued only on short—term lines. we need better border management while remaining fair with those who are in need, firm with those who are not and strong with those who seek to exploit the vulnerable. our europe is built on the certainty of our values, on the rule of law and of our freedoms. without them, there can be nothing else and, dr von der leyen, i welcome your assurances and know that you will find us constructive partners in standing up for our european way.
mr president, mrs von der leyen, you set a very ambitious target for europe: halve our co2 emissions by 2030, and you are absolutely right, it is a matter of life and death. but to win the climate battle, the nerve of the war is money. yeah, we need a weather bank. yes, we need an investment fund, you're right. but we need to go further: we need to set aside a climate budget of 1000 billion every year to finance a real marshall plan for africa, to finance a real research programme and to help all the families, all the small businesses in europe to finance the transition. how can we get €1 trillion a year without taxing everybody? i think it is urgent to fight against european tax dumping. when i was a kid, the average income tax rate in europe was 400% - 40%! it's down to 200% today, as profits and dividends soar. in europe it is only 200%, while in the united states it has been stable since roosevelt at 380%. because when roosevelt came in, he had created a federal tax in just four months. so if we really want to win the climate battle, and i think you do, my question is simple: can the next multiannual framework deliver an extra budget of one trillion a year? can we ask the shareholders to make an effort, with a tax of only 50%, and without touching the small businesses, without touching the artisans? with only 50%, we can generate 1 trillion a year. 50%, is that too much to save the climate?
on behalf of the id group. mr president, the identity and democracy group wants, within the framework of a europe of nations based on the solidarity of sovereign peoples, a genuine, strong and independent political europe, like the one that general de gaulle so visionarily wanted. unfortunately, your europe is today one of impotence and submission, which have been elevated to the status of cardinal virtues. we are powerless in the face of the islamist danger, and we are submissive to the interests of the united states and globalists. on all particularly sensitive strategic issues, when we are not passive, we are acting against the vital interests of the european nations. on the iranian nuclear issue, we do not present any credible alternative to washington's policy, whereas, appropriately, only a solid and effective global agreement can allow everyone to come out on top. where are the promises made for months now that an alternative system would be put in place to restore trade relations? you consider it's your favorite rhetoric that russia is a strategic enemy. every six months, the sanctions are automatically extended without any questioning of their actual scope, cost or diplomatic significance. your choices were catastrophic on the syrian problem, a former foreign minister going so far as to celebrate the "good job" done by the al-nusra front, in fact al-qaeda in syria, the same ones that today the french army often fights alone in the sahel. the european countries are thus excluded from any solution. in truth, you have no ambition for europe because the project you are conceiving is only a pale local version of the new world order, your totem for the last thirty years.
mr president, madam high representative, despite the remarkable efforts you have made and the many successes to which you are entitled, european diplomacy is struggling to take the lead over national diplomacy or even to match its weight on the international stage. this is a real problem at a time when the european union seems to be only a short way from laying the foundations for a common defence which requires a common vision of our interests, our place in the world and the threats and dangers we must face. does it seem to you, in these circumstances, that the administration you have just led could set itself the priority tasks of defining, first, the medium and long-term objectives of european diplomacy, second, the means of convergence and, third, the steps it would require? i thank you for your answer.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, venezuela is first and foremost a human tragedy and, if we are all agreed, a confirmation of the harmfulness of collectivist suction systems. but for many european union countries, including my own, venezuela is an example of what appears to be a double fault: allegiance and interference. loyalty, by giving the feeling of slavishly following the american position by supporting the speaker of the assembly, juan guaido, exactly in the wake of president trump. what is the use of a european organisation if it appears on the international scene only as the flag-bearer of a starry banner which is not its own? the intervention, by adopting an extremely brutal attitude in an internal conflict that may escalate into civil war. italy, which has been able to maintain a balanced position, has shown foresight. by ignoring the prudence of independence and non-interference, the union has lost its unity and diplomatic credibility, which today hamper it in playing a much-needed mediating role. let this sad situation be a lesson to us.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam high representative, the european union played a major role in the conclusion of the vienna agreement. since the us withdrawal from the jcpoa, europe's responsibility to preserve this essential element of the global nuclear non-proliferation architecture has become even greater. today, the situation is alarming. the united states has re-imposed both unilateral and extraterritorial sanctions, iran has exceeded the limit set for its enrichment and storage of uranium, and the arabian gulf is experiencing a worrying phase of tension. there is urgency: non-proliferation is weakened, the risks of conflict in the gulf are increased and the interests of our citizens and our businesses are threatened. in view of this urgency, what concrete measures do you propose to help bring about de-escalation? what are your proposals to make instex fully operational by encouraging other member states to join?
on behalf of the id group. mr president, we are committed to the sovereignty of nations, which is nothing without the power to enforce it. in this context, i would like to ask the high representative about the power that would enable europe to prevent iran's regional destabilising actions and its multiple interferences in the internal affairs of the region and the gulf countries. if we are committed to the sovereignty of nations, we are even more so to our independence and to the interests of european companies. that is why i would also like to continue my question. will the blockade laws which in the 1990s effectively protected european companies from the consequences of the us embargo on cuba be reactivated? will the interbank trading platform and the global exchange and reserve currency be set up even more decisively, which could bring all non-aligned countries together with the european nations by providing an alternative to the unilateral rule of the dollar and avoid the pincer between a conquering chinese empire and an increasingly aggressive american nation in pursuit of its own interests?
mr president, madam representative, i have had the good fortune, for years, to be a frenchman from abroad and to cover this area where i have been very often. in recent months, i have seen well-established french companies, such as total and peugeot, withdraw. i have seen german and italian companies doing the same. today, everyone knows that iran respected this agreement, and today everyone also knows that if iran is out of it, it is first because of the american choice, which is entirely responsible for it, and also perhaps because iran was waiting for a gesture from europe. at one point we made announcements at european level for a substitution mechanism. unfortunately, today there is nothing. i see that you reiterated your wishes a few days ago in a statement. what i would like, rather than declarations, is that we move to action, because perhaps the last chance for peace also consists in showing iran that there is a possibility of continuing to exist in its relations with europe, outside of these sanctions. but now it is up to us and our will to free ourselves from our great american friend.
mr president, i do not share the optimism of some. commissioner, moldova has not chosen europe. two clans have decided to ally in moldova to liquidate the third, let's be clear and everyone knows it. that is to say, in reality the european party represented by mrs nastase and the pro-russian party, which have totally different programmes from mr dodon, have in reality a target that everyone knows, which is the leader of the democratic party. i've heard of fighting the oligarchs. we are in moldova, in a somewhat paradoxical situation, you know, there are no oligarchs but one oligarch in the singular. so i at least agree with the conclusion of the last speaker, that we must give moldova a clear european horizon. moldova is not in europe, but any moldovan who wishes to be in europe can easily be, since one of its great historical neighbours is, let us say, quite generous when some ask for romanian passports. so today it is time for europe to have a real programme to help this country. i have heard a lot about the fight against corruption, it is essential, but today what i hear every time i go to moldova is concrete aid at the economic level and i believe that this is where we will win the heart at european level.
mr president, mr prime minister, the choice of the finnish presidency to be sponsored by a car manufacturer is simply outrageous. it is this european union, now more concerned with financial interests than with serving the people, that we are denouncing. while immigration is the first concern of the peoples of europe, it is not one of your priorities. the citizens of the european nations must know that the bmw money is more important to this presidency than the fight against the flood of migration. as for the priority given to strengthening common values and the rule of law, how seriously should we take it? in a democracy, the only source of law is the expressed will of sovereign peoples. by attempting yesterday to banish the hungarian and polish peoples, now the italian peoples, as a punishment for their political choices, you are attempting, thirty years after the fall of the berlin wall, to put into practice leonid brezhnev's theory of limited sovereignty. but as mrs von der leyen's narrow majority demonstrated yesterday, your hypocrisy is no longer fooling many people, the days of this european union which wanted to free itself from the peoples are now numbered.
we're going to be looking into this dress code with the speaker. but it's true that we shouldn't be doing any intermission here. you all have the speaking times we've asked for, and i'm asking you to stick to them.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in lampedusa, with dr pietro bartolo, who is standing beside me, i saw death in the teary eyes of the newly rescued exiles. in grande-synthe, my hometown, among the thousands of kurds i welcomed, i heard the distress of mustapha, a syrian, telling me how smugglers threw frightened passengers overboard. in tarifa, i felt the terror when we tried to swim across the strait of gibraltar and the rescuers formally forbade us because it was too dangerous. yet, every day many people try to make that impossible gamble. in strasbourg today, i wonder what has become of our humanity. i am appalled by this europe which refuses to take up its responsibility before history. i am furious at the so-called 'political leaders' who prefer to let the mediterranean become an open-air cemetery rather than take action by launching a european rescue mission at sea now! this is a top priority! the only thing ursula von der leyen promises us is a 'more sustainable approach to search and rescue'. this jargon is unworthy because the reality is that human beings are drowning every day and europe is doing nothing! it's time that changed!
mr president, six years ago australia was faced with the same situation as europe, with a massive influx of illegal immigrants. the response chosen by the then australian prime minister, tony abbott, was very clear: zero tolerance, no way. the results were also immediate, the deaths at sea ceased, and the message was quickly understood. illegal immigration has stopped in australia. today i think that we must adopt the same policy in europe and i consider that, with the laws and the political message sent by matteo salvini, this is a much more effective way of saving lives than, on the contrary, of getting a certain number of people to go to sea, if not actually saving them. and what i expect from the european institutions today is above all that they have a real european policy which consists, firstly, not in distributing illegal immigrants, but in ensuring that they do not arrive on european territory, by ensuring that, like australia, refugee applications are processed in other countries bordering the european union, for example. we know very well that people enter europe illegally and that is how they stay there. so let's stop the smuggling and we'll really have a solution.
mr president, commissioner, it is true that air pollution is an invisible killer and remains the leading environmental cause of premature mortality in the european union. the european environment agency reports, as has been said here, more than 422,000 premature deaths each year due to these fine particles. and lanses, the health safety agency in france, is calling for great vigilance with regard to ultrafine particles - i'm talking about pm2.5. so, commissioner, one of the first things we should do is to revise our two air quality directives, since they do not take into account the recommendations of the who. that's a first. then, of course, to have the analytical tools to measure them. i share the commission's view that cooperation with the member states and local and regional authorities should be strengthened by re-orienting european funds as a lever to improve air quality. this implies radical measures, including the end of european co-financing of polluting and climate-damaging road infrastructure projects, the financing of structuring public transport projects, the financing of an ecological conversion plan for polluting industry, and assistance and support to reduce the car's place in the city. these measures on the structural funds must be encouraged.
mr president, commissioner, as has already been said here, the impact of air pollution on health is of enormous magnitude. in portugal, the available data point to a continuing and worrying deterioration in air quality. lisbon is the sixth most polluted european city by cruise ships. the sulphur oxide emissions on the portuguese coast were 88 times higher than the emissions from cars driving in portugal, which is already very worrying. lisbon is also the only european capital with an airport within the city, exposing the population to the associated emissions. we need ambitious legislation on air quality. we need more rigorous monitoring, control and monitoring. we also need investment, which must be taken into account in the regulation and programming of the structural funds. the experience of several european cities that have implemented free public transport should be evaluated and replicated. finally, we also need contingency and emergency plans for situations where high concentrations of pollutants are already verifiable and pose a threat to public health.
mr president, the european elections have shown that the climate, the environment and health are major concerns for our citizens. we see the health effects of air pollution every day, with an increase in allergies, respiratory diseases, especially in children, and cardiovascular risks. as you recalled, the european union has already acted by legislating, in particular recently, on vehicle emissions and the energy performance of buildings. however, this is not enough. air pollution levels are still too high, legislation is still not being applied perfectly by the member states, and the encouragement of behavioural change is not being sufficiently accompanied. we must continue to work on this issue of outdoor air quality, but also on indoor air quality. the energy crisis, particularly in the field of heating, and the problem of air conditioning are key issues in this respect. the approaches differ from one member state to another, but this should not prevent us from working on them. we must be ambitious, pragmatic and i think that this major issue of indoor air quality was missing from the presentation we were given. the citizens expect us to take concrete, realistic actions, applicable in the short, medium and long term, much more than grand declarations. we regularly regret that citizens are turning their backs on europe. it is up to us to show them the added value of this union in the face of global problems, to provide european responses and to act collectively and in a harmonised way.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, while we certainly want the situation in hong kong to calm down as quickly as possible, we can deplore the european parliament's tendency to see itself as the united nations by trying to impose its views on the whole world. the movement that arose in hong kong began with a demand for national sovereignty against beijing. it then expanded to demand more democracy and freedom, national sovereignty, democracy and freedom of expression. the european union has no lessons to teach in these areas at the moment. the role of the european union should be, first and foremost, to defend the common interests of our nations. what is the european union doing about the complete lack of reciprocity between china and europe in investment and trade? what is the european union doing to tackle the great challenges of the century, such as digital technology and artificial intelligence, which are now heavily invested in by china? what is the european union doing about the threat to our food sovereignty posed by the takeover of french agricultural land by chinese companies? what is the european union doing to protect our vineyards, our industries, our infrastructure, such as airports, which are often financed by chinese funds linked to the power in beijing? before we get into what china is doing in hong kong, let us use common sense and worry first about what china is doing in europe.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i wanted to clarify the request of our group, the european united left. article 130 of the rules of procedure states that the president of the central bank must be appointed within two months of her being heard. however, his hearing took place on 4 september. so we have until november 4 to appoint the president of the european central bank and we have two sessions in october. this could allow us to have a calm and healthy debate with ms lagarde, as one would expect from a monetary policy and a new president of the european central bank. i remember her hearing where she said that the european central bank had listened to the market for far too long and that it was time to listen to the people of europe. well, here we are, my friends, the representatives of the european peoples, and it is time that the european central bank listened to us, because it has listened to the market for far too long. i cannot imagine, dear friends, dear colleagues, that you would refuse to debate in the presence of mrs lagarde her appointment to a body which we know is essential for the future of our planet and also for the future of the peoples. i encourage you to ask for this debate with her and in her presence.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, research and innovation must not be blocked by administrative procedures. the development of any sector in general and of agriculture in particular is dependent on research and innovation. we are facing realities today that cannot be ignored: the increase in the global population, the limitation or depletion of natural resources in some places, but above all climate change requires us to act immediately. we need to identify new resources, mechanisms and processes to obtain food, which must be in sufficient quantities, of good quality and affordable. in this context, i consider that plants obtained by traditional processes cannot be patented. the consequences would be disastrous, not only for farmers, who would have to pay extra money for the use of different plant varieties, but also for the field of research. but today we see that more research is needed than ever. last but not least, let's not forget the consumers. they will be the ones who will ultimately pay for all these abuses by the european patent office. at the same time, we in this room don't have to act like the firefighters on duty and intervene whenever someone wants to patent a natural process. on the contrary, we and the european commission must send a very clear message: these natural processes of selection and crossbreeding cannot be patented.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when innovation and non-gmo plant breeding are the only way to reduce the environmental impact of the agricultural sector, we cannot accept the decision of the european patent office. we cannot allow the availability of plant material to be limited or the capacity of our research laboratories to be compromised, with serious repercussions for the sustainability of our agriculture and the health of all european citizens. that is why, commissioner, we ask you to intervene as soon as possible and to submit the necessary observations to prevent this decision from going against the wishes, expressed on several occasions by the co-legislators, and to restore the necessary legal certainty so that agriculture can become an increasingly important player in the fight against climate change and be able to respond, also through the use of new techniques of varietal improvement, in an ambitious way to the demands of millions of citizens.
the commission has already done so. the decision of the technical board of appeal of the european patent office to grant patents on plants produced by conventional breeding is in no way understandable from the point of view of the farmer. i believe that free access to seeds is important to preserve the innovative capacity of european plant breeders. i want a diversity of seeds in europe, and i want small farmers to continue to have this access to genetic resources. free access to seeds is also a key element in growing new varieties that are better able to meet the challenges of climate change. i hope that the enlarged board of appeal of the european patent office will review the decision so that no further patents will be granted on plants.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the green group has always been one of the fiercest opponents of the patentability of living things, as martine said earlier. i think that, in the light of the speeches i have just heard, we are all in agreement on a number of points. the question of form, however, is a little more serious. who is responsible for making the law in the european union? parliament and the council, or the european patent office? for the past ten years, under pressure from the united states and the major seed companies, the organization has been granting illegal patents on plants, onions, tomatoes, broccoli and even animals, such as salmon. the european union has plant variety certificates. they are far from perfect, but they do allow resistant farmers to sow all the species in a population, as i was able to do on my own farm. it is in the light of the effectiveness of the use of these seeds, whose diversity and genetic variability have proved their worth, that it was possible, during the debate on the evolution of the specifications of organic farming, to show how effective it was. so at the international level, in every possible forum, the united states, ally of the multinationals, is pushing for the br... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the id group. madam president, the european union, our parliament, is being particularly active in ensuring that democracy is respected in china. it is of course a good practice to ensure that the people's choice is respected and to denounce the manoeuvres and violence that block them. it's good to be careful in china, but it's better to be careful in europe. in the united kingdom, a worn-out parliament is opposing a democratic and sovereign decision by british citizens and is trying to block their choice to leave the european union. in italy, an unnatural political combination is being used to prevent a return to the polls, which the italians want. in france, an autocratic president, supported by a parliament which, mechanically, does not represent the popular vote, imposes laws that throw french people, far more numerous than in hong kong, into the streets. the pension reform project is the most recent example. failure to denounce these practices, these manoeuvres, is unworthy of a parliamentary assembly, of our parliamentary assembly. democracy dies by continuing along this path which is driving the peoples of europe apart.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is courage, determination and the endless fight for freedom that has just marked a very big point in hong kong. not only did the chinese authorities not dare to repeat the abomination of tiananmen square there, but the local authorities, with the consent of beijing, of course, cancelled their decree on extradition to china. we must applaud the hong kong protesters and celebrate this victory, because any retreat from a government that ignores human rights is a blow to the freedom of all around the world. our satisfaction is not enough, however. we must support the struggle for freedom of china, which is and will remain, in any event, one of our main economic partners and one of the great powers of this century. we must do so because we have a moral obligation, but we must also do so because we can. we can, because in their tug-of-war with mr trump, the chinese authorities cannot afford to alienate the europe they need. we, the european parliamentarians, can do so because our assembly is the only institution in the world which is strong enough, independent and united in its defence of human rights to be able to confront a regime which has become the largest, most modern and most sophisticated of dictatorships. we can do so, because we will soon have the opportunity to demonstrate this by awarding, i hope and i urge you all, from all political groups, the sakharov prize to a chinese opponent in the person of mr ilham tohti, the imprisoned defender of the uyghur people, of which he is both the child and one of the great figures.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report by the french association, futures generations, which is recognized by the ministry of the environment, stated that the dangers of pesticides in europe were underestimated. the report points out in particular that, i quote: 'the evaluation of pesticides does not take into account all the scientific data, although the european regulation requires it. other it must be admitted that for european consumers and citizens, the confusion is total and legitimate. there are a plethora of conflicting studies and the study of their sponsors suggests that they are biased or deliberately avoid certain data. finally, there is an urgent need to produce a comprehensive study independent of any financial or ideological interest and above all to enable consumers to find themselves and to be as informed as possible. this study must be as comprehensive as possible, extending it of course to the endocrine disruptors that proliferate in our daily lives.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, the current un secretary-general, antónio guterres, said last month that in the fight against climate change, fine words are not enough. we are now waiting for action. no one can deny today that international organizations, the imf, the world bank and the wto in particular, bear a heavy responsibility in the ecologically predatory system we live in. these are all the organizations that have laid the foundations for the mad, wild globalization that has gone to the most absurd extremes. it is the free trade agreements they have encouraged that are dumping more and more ultra-polluting containers into our seas, often to process products that we could make nearby. what about the european union, which is going to promote an agricultural, health and environmental disaster by signing a trade treaty with mercosur. it must be said clearly that in the globalist and europeanist bodies, in ecology as elsewhere, hypocrisy reigns at all levels. they claim to care about climate change, but they don't question the trade that fuels it. i would like to conclude with the inspired words of the famous french writer bossuet: god laughs at men who lament the effects of things they cherish.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, next week, when some of us will be at the united nations to mobilise for climate action and the sustainable development goals, at the same time, in monaco, climate experts will be unveiling the special report 'ocean and cryosphere'. this report, which we asked for four years ago, with my friends from the ocean and climate platform, is very alarming. my friends, in its own way, the ocean is burning. yet for years, climate negotiations ignored its vital role in balancing the climate and the essential services it provides to humanity. thanks to the photosynthesis of plant microorganisms, the ocean provides half of the oxygen in the atmosphere. it's the other lung of the planet. it absorbs a quarter of all greenhouse gas emissions. marine and coastal ecosystems, such as mangroves and coral reefs, provide food security for three billion people. they are a bulwark against rising sea levels and the violence of extreme weather events. the frequency and intensity of cyclones are a consequence of warming of the deep ocean. coral death is due to increased temperature, oxygen deprivation and ocean acidification. and i'm worried about what this new report will tell us. in 2015, we succeeded in making the ocean's voice heard at cop 21 in paris. it has finally become an emerging topic that is mobilizing the european commission, thanks in particular to the work of commissioner vella. and chile has named the next cop 25 the "blue cop". but good ocean health must be one of the goals of the climate negotiations, especially since it is also part of the solution. we need to finance the restoration of marine and coastal ecosystems, reduce emissions from shipping, develop marine energy without destroying habitats, etc. as the world's leading maritime area, europe has a tremendous responsibility and leadership to take. this is a challenge we can take on and it awaits the future vice-president in charge of the green blue deal and the future commissioner for the environment and oceans and i welcome this title. an ocean, finally, which i call for to be recognised as a common good of humanity.
mr president, four years after the paris agreement was signed, there is a huge gap between the commitments made and the actions taken by the signatory countries, particularly by some of the major polluters. but, commissioner, your communication fails to mention the crucial role of cities in the fight against climate change, whereas half the world's population lives in them. buildings that consume too much energy, domestic heating systems that are often outdated, congested roads, too few green spaces... globally, cities produce more than 60% of greenhouse gas emissions. this is why the un secretary-general has identified cities and local action as one of the priority action portfolios. my question is twofold: how does the european commission intend to carry and include the voice of european cities on 23 september? and what significant advances could the commission bring forward to demonstrate its leadership on this fundamental issue?
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, it is always an honour to take part in the deliberations of the european parliament. today’s vote on the candidate for the president of the european central bank is particularly important as the ecb plays a central role in eu economic policy. the treaties enshrine the independence of the european central bank in its conduct of monetary policy. this is a principle that the commission defends wholeheartedly as it is crucial for achieving the objective of safeguarding price stability. but independence and accountability go hand in hand. today’s vote is an important manifestation of the mechanisms by which the ecb is held to account towards the european parliament. the importance of the debates and the positions expressed by this parliament are evident from the choice of the council to propose christine lagarde as ecb president. i concur with the view of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) and the ecb governing council that christine lagarde has all the credentials for the job. her appointment is moreover a strong signal for gender balance within the ecb, something on which the parliament has repeatedly taken a clear stance. the ecb’s role in the european economy cannot be overstated. the european central bank is tasked by the treaties to secure price stability, a precondition for a well-functioning monetary area. the ecb’s decisive actions during the financial and economic crisis have averted a serious threat of deflation and allowed the euro area economy to recover steadily in recent years. however, the low inflation environment has become a persistent feature within the most advanced economies since the post-crisis period and monetary policy alone is not able to change that. for a more balanced and effective policy mix monetary policy should be supported by structural reforms and fiscal policy. on the side of structural reforms, we need to use all levers to facilitate the transformation which europe’s businesses and employees will need to embark on in the coming years amid challenges like climate change, the digital age and global and political uncertainty. as regards fiscal policies, within the limits of fiscal sustainability, fiscal policy can provide a boost to domestic demand and investment. christine lagarde also stressed this point in her opening statement in the economic and monetary affairs committee and i could not agree more. in the longer term, i strongly believe that the deepening of economic and monetary union is also essential. in particular, deeper and better connected european capital markets and a completion of the banking union are key building blocks for a stronger and more resilient euro area. so i look forward to hearing your views and continuing our good cooperation with the european central bank.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the monetary policy of the european central bank has been the subject of intense debate by many observers in recent years. the ecb has often been perceived as more of an economic regulator than it is in pursuing the primary objective of its mandate, namely to ensure price stability. the decision last week to resume the bond-buying programme, to lower interest rates even further, has once again added fuel to the fire. the european central bank under mario draghi has lost a lot of confidence. the epp group is all the more pleased that christine lagarde, at the hearing in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, clearly stated her views on the objectives enshrined in the treaty. and, dear friends of social democracy, if you respect the treaty, you are not blind and deaf, but you are honest. i ask you to take note of this. in the medium term, however, this commitment also means that the european central bank will have to abandon ultra-loose monetary policy. the european economy and some of the countries of the european union cannot be dependent on cheap money for a long time. in this context, it is also commendable that christine lagarde has taken on the task of better communicating the monetary policy of the european central bank. it is urgent. independence does not mean that you are not accountable for the decisions you make. but better communication also means that ms lagarde not only explains, but also listens and responds to criticism of monetary policy. these are the essential questions for our future. the ecb needs to refocus on its mandate, it needs to communicate its decisions better. we shall be voting today, as the epp group, in favour of mrs lagarde's appointment, because mrs lagarde has made both commitments.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i was saying thank you very much for the floor, for this debate, mr dombrovskis, for being here. two weeks ago we had the candidate for president of the ecb in the econ committee, in a speech which we clearly found satisfactory. firstly, because mrs lagarde has clearly chosen to maintain a continuity with the work that mario draghi has done at the ecb in recent years and which has undoubtedly succeeded in saving the euro at very critical moments. but the candidate also advocated a review of the conceptual framework for monetary policy - the monetary policy framework, obviously within the treaties, mr ferber, within the treaties. but within the treaties there is enough room to review how to achieve such price stability. and i will also say - and i am sure that commissioner dombrovskis is here - that we need a fiscal policy which clearly goes hand in hand with monetary policy, because otherwise we will not be able to drive the cycle.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the debate on the nomination of mrs lagarde is actually - i think - a bit of a distraction. there is clearly a signal, and the appointment of mrs lagarde is basically a confirmation of the basic course under mario draghi and the ecb. it was the ecb that saved the euro; without the ecb we would no longer have price stability, because the most unstable currency is also one that no longer has price stability. a currency that is falling apart is not stable per se. that is why these attacks on the ecb for not fulfilling its mandate are completely out of the question. instead, we have a situation where the eurozone countries are not doing their job, both in those countries which are struggling with economic problems, which are not making good progress with reforms, with social justice reforms which are at the same time boosting the economy, and also in the surplus countries which are currently reducing their debt instead of making room for economic development, especially in the sense of an ecological and social transformation of our economy. we are therefore pleased that mrs lagarde has made it clear that the member states must have a common fiscal policy. this is the precondition for monetary policy to no longer have to take the risks associated with an excessively lax monetary policy. and we also have clear signals: a woman at the head of the ecb for the first time and a greening of the common monetary policy. these are clear commitments from mrs lagarde, and we welcome them.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, i am not speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party, but on behalf of the group of the european democratic alliance. despite the expansion of your majority, you have still dragged your german and french names across the european union with all sorts of tricks, just by the heels of the ditch through parliament. for the macron-ursula von der leyen affair, you even had to involve the five star in your majority game. indeed, it owes its close election to a substantial proportion of poles from the ecr. one of the keys to your shaky majority is the appointment of your ecp chairman, in the person of mrs lagarde. what we know for sure now is that she will be a slave to your unrealistic eurozone policies. she said she would blindly support the re-launch of the draghi helicopter money, so that you, ladies and gentlemen of this majority, will be able to further plunge this continent into debt and, above all, into sovereign debt, and mrs lagarde to your applause that is beginning to sound more and more like the orchestra on the titanic. we shall of course vote against.
president. - the ecb, the european central bank, is actually the most powerful institution in the european union. but where is this institution now? if we look at last week, we see that this institution is also very divided. the eurozone itself is already divided between north and south and different countries, institutions, politics between countries and within countries. but last week there was a meeting of the ecb, where mr draghi fired a final shot and announced that he was going to continue printing money, creating more debt and so on. and of course, keep the interest rates as low as possible. several presidents of european banks, including the dutch and german national central banks, have opposed this. they represent 60% of the economic value within the euro area: 60% of the economic power has spoken out against mr draghi, but mr draghi is just going on. i would have liked to see what mrs lagarde thought of that, but she's not here. she's running the empty seat policy. and who are the losers in this whole game? those are the savers who are seeing their savings diminish. those are the pensioners who are seeing their pensions shrink and those are the young people who are not getting involved and you wonder: where is that going with this euro? there is a recession coming and the citizens are vulnerable to those forces.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what a strange feeling it is for us newly elected members to have this debate on the presidency of the european central bank without the sole candidate, mrs lagarde, being present. yet it is more than ever time to discuss together the role of the ecb and the objectives it should pursue. because money is political and has nothing neutral about climate or inequality. inequality, a word that christine lagarde knows well and had in her mouth when she was president of the imf, appears only twice in her questionnaire. on the other hand, price stability appears 26 times. when you talk to them about climate or reducing inequality, they give you the same answer: price stability. as a result, the ecb injected over €2 trillion into the markets, of which barely 10% was returned to the real economy. the rest fueled a speculative bubble. for too long, monetary policy has served the richest. even mario draghi recognized that. despite the crisis - and the greek example has tragically shown this - the ecb still has no plans to make its policy work for the majority. so we heard christine lagarde and the european commission speak in unison about the green deal. but is it prepared to stop funding those responsible for the disaster? no, i'm not going. is it prepared to put an end to the 63% of private debt repurchases that benefit polluting companies? no, i'm not going. is it prepared to lend directly to the states to finance the ecological transition? i still can't. is it prepared to give priority to green finance? no, i'm not going. the most important thing is not to distort the sacred market. and i don't care if the planet has to pay the price. this obsession with the market is not suited to the urgencies of our time. instead, let's choose a monetary policy that serves ecological and social transformation, an ecb that ensures that money reinvested in the real economy stops funding polluting activities, and one that takes on the responsibility of regulating the market to promote green assets. that is what we would have said to mrs lagarde if she had been here today. this is what our discussions should be about rather than preparing a vote for someone who has been sentenced in his own country. count on us to continue to be vigilant today and throughout the forthcoming mandate for a monetary policy that serves what it should serve first: people and the planet.
madam president, i was a central banker for most of my working life so this is an emotional issue for me, in addition to being an issue of very great importance. we were lucky to have excellent chiefs of the european central bank (ecb), such as jean—claude trichet and mario draghi, and we must keep the standard high. it was said that the european central bank has changed in the last decade and so the profile of the appointment has changed. instead of looking for top—notch academia economists or experienced central bankers, those who make appointments also look for people not just with strong economic backgrounds but with political skills and experience of the financial sector. from this point of view, christine lagarde, for me, is an excellent choice and she has my full support. and i guess her appointment was supported at the lengthy hearing of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which i had the privilege to chair a few days ago. still, we have one great risk ahead of us: it seems to me that many ministers and politicians believe that some mysterious magic monetary policy can serve as a replacement for necessary, badly needed economic reforms. that’s not right and i believe christine lagarde is well-positioned to stress the importance of policies other than just monetary policy. i hope she will be listened to carefully by ministers.
madam president, i shall concentrate on two issues concerning the future and fair competition. firstly, the delay in completing the banking union with a pan-european deposit guarantee is not so much due to technical issues, which are there but manageable. it is more due to political opposition from certain member states. we have now a banking union without common protection for small depositors. we have a "shared house with no shared roof". and this is not a technical issue. the states most affected by the banking crisis accepted the first two pillars of the banking union at enormous economic and social cost. the second point concerns european legislation, which requires the elimination of abusive practices, which unfortunately are used and survive, in particular because of the power that banks have over borrowers. the european central bank is not a political institution, but a political body.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite astonishing to prejudge the future policy of the ecb, even though its new president, christine lagarde, will only be taking office in a few weeks' time. as you all know, if ms lagarde is confirmed as head of the european central bank, she will have to deal with the governing council. twenty-five of them will be sitting around the table, the six members of the ecb's executive board and the 19 governors of the euro area countries. so, as you know, it's going to be a collegiate function. let me remind you that during her hearing before our econ committee, mrs lagarde described in three points how she envisaged the function. first, it recalled that the ecb's regulatory framework had to be respected. it then indicated that it would adapt to the context of the current upheavals with agility and pragmatism. she also said, and this was echoed by our colleague from the epp, mr ferber, that civil society, young people, should be more involved in order to inform public opinion better. she also indicated that the focus of her work as head of the ecb would be on climate risk, which would be a macroeconomic priority for the ecb. the commission will therefore have to phase out the financial securities of polluting companies on its balance sheet. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the new member states. it is true that the ecb is currently pursuing a policy of very low interest rates, which may be worrying for savers. however, it also allows citizens to borrow, first-time homebuyers to buy property for the first time and businesses to borrow to invest and create jobs. ladies and gentlemen, let us be positive, by being vigilant but also bold, because in addition to being the first woman to hold this post, christine lagarde has a strong asset to face the challenges of the ecb for the coming years, namely her experience at the head of the imf and her pragmatism. it is therefore up to us to work in a collective and constructive spirit in the economic, social and ecological interests of our fellow citizens and our companies.
madam president, with germany on the verge of recession, the risk of a hard brexit and a trade war, to ask the european central bank at this time to raise rates and not continue with its unconventional policies is a real suicide and, moreover, it would not be following through with the mandate it has been given. so those policies have to continue, of course, offsetting those negative effects that exist: tackling the housing bubble through the macroeconomic guidelines and also 'how not' stopping buying carbon-related assets, which in recent years have not helped the fight against climate change. that must be done. but also, as many of my colleagues have said, the measures of the european central bank must be counterbalanced by fiscal policy. those states which have room to spend should do so in view of the coming cycle. and i would also ask commissioner dombrovskis to open the debate in the commission on tax rules. the european fiscal council has asked for it, mr regling of the esc even said it the other day: that the rules should be revised. do not give in to some member states in this debate and present us with a review of tax rules, as was originally intended by this next european commission.
the president, mrs lagarde, as she will be, is coming to the ecb at a critical moment for three reasons. firstly, last thursday we had a unique spectacle, in that more than 50% of the ecb voted against mr draghi's policies in terms of economic weight, and two members of mr draghi's executive committee voted against it. that's never been shown before. the second point of great importance to mrs lagarde is, of course, that the institutional framework for the euro is still not complete. the banking union is not finished. the capital markets union, which is absolutely necessary, must also be further set in motion. thirdly, and perhaps most importantly, the ecb and mrs lagarde must therefore gradually come to realise that there needs to be more explanation and more explanation of what i call the negative side effects of the policy which has been pursued for years now and which was further intensified last thursday. i refer to the clearly increased risk of financial instability. this policy encourages the formation of bubbles. secondly: insurance companies, pension funds and banks are finding it increasingly difficult to meet their obligations and will find it even more so as policies are intensified. the third side effect is, of course, the drain on the savings of the modal citizen. fourth, and often underestimated, but very real: the phenomenon of the zombie firms that are further amplified and the misallocation of capital that goes with it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. many of us have been able to see through the discussions with mrs lagarde over the last few years, and now also in the economic and monetary affairs committee, that she is the right person in the right place at the right time. we need people with experience and independence, with foresight and prudence, with a steady hand and confidence, with global responsibility, with the willingness to communicate, the will to explain decisions in a comprehensible way, and consistency, reliability and clarity. we need a credible, determined spokesman, a general manager of the second largest currency in the world, the common currency of the european union, our euro. and as we have said today, let us not make it too easy for ourselves. a successful monetary policy cannot replace the lack of a common euro budget, a completed banking and capital markets union, a common economic policy, budgetary policy, structural policy. let us not make it so easy for ourselves by criticizing low interest rates and on the other hand distracting from our own reforms let us also do our homework!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is my first term as a member of the european parliament, and i must confess that i am a little surprised that mrs lagarde is not here to listen to us, that this debate is reduced to a succession of speaking times. as a member of parliament, i admit that i am a little surprised, but that is the way it is. as for ms. lagarde, her audition was very, very, very, very, very attractive. two concerns, however. the first concerns the change in monetary policy. while it was absolutely essential to pursue a generous monetary policy, it is absolutely essential to ensure that it does not feed speculation and that it is bent towards green investment to avoid a new crisis both in banking and in finance. we have no guarantees on this point. another point is crisis management. eight years is a long time and we'll probably go through a banking and financial crisis. but christine lagarde was not very bright on this issue when she was handling the greek crisis. it may have changed, it may have broken out of its ideological prison, but we still do not have enough guarantees, it seems to me, about how it will prevent one crisis and how it will manage the next one.
madam president, mrs lagarde has announced that under her presidency the european central bank will be, i quote, 'more transparent and more accessible to the citizens'. she said the ecb's role was to make itself understood by citizens, not just markets. these are fine speeches from a staunch supporter of total free trade. beyond the speeches, ms lagarde did not consider it important to appear before the elected representatives of the european peoples. by flouting the only democratic body of the european institutions, ms lagarde's presidency is off to a bad start. it should be remembered that the woman who has been at the head of several major political and economic authorities has never been elected by popular or democratic vote in her own country, france. it should be remembered that ms lagarde was the president of a large us international business law firm and, of course, the managing director of the imf. we can therefore assume that his eyes and interests are elsewhere, far beyond europe. it is not the interests of the people, but those of a global elite, particularly the anglo-saxon business community that ms lagarde is defending. its stated intention to make climate change a priority for the ecb is a fundamental contradiction with the european union's global free trade policy. finally, more and more people in europe are becoming aware of the inefficiencies of the common currency and its damage to purchasing power. the eurozone is the world's slowest growing economic area, and yet the european central bank is the only central bank in the world to make the fight against inflation its exclusive obsession. it must now tackle the problem of unemployment, invest heavily in job creation and develop sectors of the future. we had some essential democratic questions to ask mrs lagarde and we can only deplore her absence and her disregard for the european peoples we represent.
mr president, the code of good practice against disinformation drawn up by the commission is intended to be sensitive to freedom of expression and an open internet. that's what it says in the text. this code of conduct has been endorsed by facebook, twitter, google. these hosts are held responsible for the content of the internet users' publications. they therefore do not hesitate to censor comments that could be considered as misinformation. we all know that the internet is somehow capable of both the best and the worst. except that in this case, under the pretext of fighting disinformation, there are countless numbers of internet users who were censored from one minute to the next and without any warning because they had spread, not fake news, but because they had expressed divergent and critical opinions with regard, in particular, to the europeanist and immigrationist ideology of the commission. even news outlets are censored, such as france's valeurs actuelles, where facebook authoritatively deleted an article about french public television's propaganda in favor of migrants on the grounds that its content was supposedly hateful. hell is always paved with good intentions, the best thoughts can lead to the worst results. the fight against false information should not lead to the creation of a 'ministry of truth' as defined by george orwell in his novel 1984. in 2019, the temptation is great for the current system's supporters, who are followers of globalization and its considerable financial means, to stop by any means the rise of what they scornfully call the populists. censorship of the media has been used by all totalitarian regimes since the dawn of time. for globalist ideologues, all those who oppose it must be blocked. here in this parliament a 'cordon sanitaire' has been used to absolve all members who defy this ideology of responsibility. we shall nevertheless continue our fight in connection with the deepest aspirations of the peoples whom we respect!
mr president, we are in this house at the moment to debate the fake news, and you have just indicated that the members of the brexit party would be in the identity and democracy group. it's not. i think that first of all, in order not to debate fake news, we should be careful to respect ourselves. at no time are these members in our group and so i regard it as a denial of democracy not to have given them the opportunity to accept or not to accept the blue card.
mr president, far be it from me to want to go back on the prerogatives of the president of the sitting, but you explicitly based your decision to refuse the blue card on the fact that this member of parliament belonged to our group. at least admit that it was a mistake, otherwise it is again fake news while we are participating in a debate against fake news.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that freedom of expression is the cornerstone of democracy. but its flip side is known: disinformation, which has taken on a new dimension thanks to the perversion of the internet and social media. we may have only just seen the beginning of this phenomenon, which we must urgently combat. so thank you to the commission for starting the fight. but how can we check the veracity of the information without contacting the censorship offices? we are walking on eggshells here, but after all, democracies have long since learned to fight defamation without infringing freedom of expression. the same task awaits us today: to define crime and to punish it by law, which is applied by an independent judiciary. this is our duty as legislators. but journalists - and i am one - have to reinvent, for their part, a press whose commitment, vigor and clarity leave no room for, or attraction to, destabilisation organised from abroad (or not).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our democratic way of life is threatened, but it is not threatened by the exiles we are allowing to die in the mediterranean. it is threatened by the forces that have interfered in our elections and in our public debates. the strache case in austria, the lega funding case in italy, the cambridge analytica case, the case of the russian banks of the national front... all these cases show the financial links and the relations of vassalage between the extreme right, here present, and the regime of vladimir putin. they also show the vulnerability of our democratic systems to outside interference. instead of inventing imaginary enemies, let's deal with this very real threat. that is why i am solemnly asking you today, ladies and gentlemen, to set up this special committee to shed light on these interferences and their relays and to define the means of countering them. it is the very survival of our democracies that is at stake. we can't let ourselves be trampled on anymore. it's time to act.
madam president, i listened carefully to the commission and i understood that it was particularly pleased with itself in its fight against false information. but the reality is quite different. i hear a lot of countries or political groups pointing fingers, but what about its own interference with the nations of the european union? the british people have chosen to leave the european union. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. in italy, the way to democracy would be to return to the polls: here again, the commission is promoting a political union against nature by means of false news and false rumours. the commission spends its time, against the wishes of the people, interfering in the affairs of the nations of the european union on matters which are not within its competence, thus flouting our treaties. once again, today our assembly is stirring up great ideas, but do not sweep outside its own door.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the amazon rainforest is burning, causing the ecological catastrophe we all know. president macron's voice has moved france, and we all share his emotion. however, the national rally would have liked president macron to react in the same way to the fires that are at least as serious as the ones that are devastating the forests of sub-saharan africa. after a playful courtship, unworthy of the heads of state of the sixth and ninth world powers, emmanuel macron threatened not to sign the mercosur. everyone knows that the crop is used to feed the canadian cattle of ceta, a treaty that has been a disaster for french farmers. the national rally and its president, marine le pen, opposed ceta, just as we are opposed to mercosur, because it is a disastrous treaty for french farmers. president macron has come to the same conclusion and, in the most cynical way, has seized on the amazon disaster to threaten not to sign the mercosur. there is no doubt that ecology and the environment are too serious and too important for the future of the planet to be used for domestic political maneuvering. in this respect, a well-ordered charity starting with oneself, we would like president macron to put an end to the dismantling of the onf, to take care of the waste treatment on réunion island, to take care of the rising sea levels in mayotte, to take care of the radioactive risk posed by the us dome in the marshall islands which threatens our compatriots in french polynesia, to take more care of the environment of our compatriots in french guiana by preserving the french part of the amazon as best as possible, and finally to take care of the environmental disaster of sargassum algae in martinique and guadeloupe. unfortunately, after all this turmoil and all these effects, emmanuel macron will do nothing on these issues and will end up signing the mercosur.
madam president, this summer, our planet was ablaze. wildfires wiped out forests in the amazon, in asia and in africa. in europe, three times more wildfires occurred than in every single year between 2008 and 2018. in the arctic region, burning peat urges us to swift action. we need to tackle this disaster for all of humanity at global level. rather than scapegoating trade agreements, as done by mr jadot, who has already left after having done his show, we should use this sense of urgency to advance the debate on how to better leverage trade policy to export our environmental standards and fight climate change on a global scale. the prospect of the eu-mercosur association agreement is a unique opportunity to hold brazil to its commitments under the paris climate agreement, such as to restore and reforest 12 million hectares and to attain zero illegal deforestation by 2030, as already stated by my colleague, peter liese. trade policy is no silver bullet for these problems, but it sure can be helpful. for example, through plurilateral agreements on trade in environmental goods, it now lies in our hands to work on the appropriate flanking measures, such as monitoring and certification schemes. not blame games, but cooperation is the way forward. not defeatism, but the conviction that this man-made disaster has man-made solutions should guide us.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. the forest is our green lungs. the world's forests play a very crucial role for the future, for the climate, for our ability to transition to a sustainable future. we know that one lung is the forest, with its growing trees, absorbing and taking up carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, and thus playing a very crucial role in our ability to meet the temperature targets of the paris agreement. but we also know that the second lung forest can contribute to a new technology that is also very important for our transformation. but right now, it's rightly about the amazon rainforest, which is particularly important. it is not for nothing that the amazon rain forest is called the lungs of the world. this forest absorbs two billion tons of carbon dioxide a year. you heard right. that's five percent of the world's total emissions. this is the most important resource for us to be able to live up to the paris agreement, that we respect the rainforest. the fires in the amazon threaten our future. we need to act responsibly and make sure we take the lead in defending the rainforest.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i come from the french overseas departments and i wish to bring to you the alarm, still as persistent, of the people of the amazon, still as threatened by devastating forest fires. the whole of humanity is involved, as we have said, but on the front line there are nearly 300 000 europeans. they live in french guiana, in the amazon rainforest. france and therefore europe, we have a common border with brazil, which is burning, and this gives us a legitimacy and even a greater responsibility to act and to protect the amazon. as usual, there is of course substance and form. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. i ask us to use all the levers available so that in the amazon we have a strategy and a requirement to respect, of course, the objectives of sustainable development, the fragility of biodiversity, the strength of the local population and their ancestral cultures and, of course, the commitments made in the paris agreements.
madam president, i think everyone was shocked to see what we saw this summer with the amazon fires, and rightfully so. we have been discussing here the mercosur trade deal, which is designed to improve and to enhance trade between, for example, brazil, and europe. this is not about a blame game. this is to my colleagues in the european people’s party group (epp) – because i really would recommend you to read what’s in it. if you are looking at preventing deforestation, in the current mercosur trade deal, you will only find it somewhere down the line in the trade and sustainable development chapter. the only things that are being said is to encourage trade in products from sustainably managed forests and to promote, as appropriate and with prior informed consent, the inclusion of forest-based local communities and indigenous people. that’s only talking about encouraging and promoting, whereas the rest of the mercosur trade deal is very binding. this shows you that this trade deal has totally bizarre priorities: more trade and when it’s about sustainability, promoting and encouraging. that’s the language that we are having here and that’s the question to the commission and to the council: do you want to change this language in order to make sure that we have binding rules in place instead of these very weak chapters that we have now in the current mercosur trade deal?
madam president, we are all obviously alarmed by the situation in the amazon. but we can't just lament or condemn. we must be able to identify the causes and also draw the political consequences. the first of the causes is mr. bolsonaro's criminal policy of dismantling environmental agencies, destroying the habitats of indigenous peoples and using more and more toxic pesticides. the second cause is also an economic model, that of brazilian agribusiness, which is based on export and which needs more and more land, especially for soybeans. but we have a responsibility to ourselves because we must stop being hypocritical, i heard the right-wing colleague say that mercosur will encourage mr bolsonaro to be virtuous. but it's a joke, you know. it's a bad joke, by the way. the reality is that mercosur, it's written in black and white, it's more ethanol, more sugar, more meat, so it's an incredible incentive to deforestation. it is a climate-killing text. so, colleagues, especially from the right and from renew, be consistent, be logical, if you really regret this situation, then reject mercosur.
madam president, it is a pleasure to have you preside over this particular debate, and i also thank commissioner vella for what may be one of his last debates with us. the amazon is burning, a fire that is ravaging the largest forest on the planet, igniting opinions and dynamiting diplomatic relations. the amazon is burning, a whole region is suffocating, and the world is suffering. the responsibilities, as we have said, of the bolsonaro and morales governments in this catastrophe are overwhelming, because this vicious circle is terrible. former carbon sinks, these forests are becoming emitters by releasing into the atmosphere the co2 they have sequestered for centuries. and we are one of the main importers of products from deforestation: palm oil, cocoa, corn, wood, meat and of course brazilian soy. in summary, one in 10 products is associated with deforestation and consumed in europe. our response must be both appropriate and transversal. the only measure, since time is running out for me, is a label, to create a label, a certification of the union to identify and promote its zero deforestation products.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the amazon is burning and the fires that are ravaging it are our last barricade against climate change. the increase in fires is not only linked to drought. it is linked to economic interests that sacrifice the rights of nature. in the amazon, people are clearing land, deforesting, burning in the name of profit. let us not look away, with the air of those who are not concerned. these agro-food or extractive companies are also european. these companies are no longer bound by any rules, no duty of vigilance. and among the world's leading polluters, how can we tolerate that total and shell, these two european oil companies, are not even obliged to respect the paris agreement? it's time to act. when will europe finally recognise the rights of nature, the planetary commons, ecocides? you who talk to us about defending our way of life, i ask you: when will you defend a way of life compatible with our future? a responsible europe is a europe that respects planetary boundaries and the living.
madam president, through our trade we bear a responsibility for these fires in the amazon, because we import products from deforestation and forest degradation - beef and soybeans, for example. the european union must not only make a strong case, but also impose sustainable forest management through binding clauses in line with the paris climate agreements. it should be remembered that no penalties are currently in place for non-compliance. this is a crucial issue in the mercosur negotiations. we must also put in place the ecological barrier that we defended during the european campaign and that president von der leyen has committed herself to, and we welcome this. but how can we promote this barrier, while moving forward with such negotiations? we must protect our consumers, support our industries, support our farmers, protect the environment from polluting foreign producers. however, the agreements negotiated with mercosur do not meet these requirements. this makes us responsible for the situation in the amazon.
mr president, the situation in the amazon is catastrophic, but the scourge of deforestation is global, it is not just the amazon. since july, for example, indonesia has also been burning in unbearable silence. we will not be able to combat this massive deforestation with trade agreements alone, let alone if they do not include any binding measures, as with mercosur. let's expand the discussion. it takes years to conclude a trade agreement and put it into effect. we must act quickly. development aid is a more effective lever in the short term. it could be better used, particularly as a means of putting pressure on states which turn a blind eye to deforestation. finally, i would like to think of farmers who often have little choice but to spread their crops over the forest. let's help them change their behaviour, by making sure that virtuous practices provide them with decent pay.
mr president, the criticisms of india, the world's largest democracy, heard in this house are based on a misrepresentation of the facts. we focus on constitutional reform, but we forget about the separatist push and the security issue. the situation in jammu and kashmir has worsened. a series of islamist attacks on law enforcement have occurred, such as on february 14, when a car bomb killed 40 police officers, or on august 2 last year, with the discovery of an arsenal that was supposed to be used to carry out an attack on the thousands of hindu pilgrims who visit the holy cave of amarnath every year. in this context, the security measures taken by narendra modi, the prime minister of india, are aimed at ensuring the security of the country, the protection of its citizens and the sealing of the border with the islamic republic of pakistan, which since 2018 has again been on the us list of states with an ambiguous attitude towards the terrorist threat. these are the facts.
madam president, i would like to thank jean-claude juncker and michel barnier for being here in front of our parliament, a parliament which has the privilege of hearing you and debating brexit, without anyone thinking of suspending it. our parliament will take its responsibilities. we will never accept that the island of ireland is harmed by a wall or by the return of violence. we will never accept any attempt to undermine the integrity and the strength of the european union. we will never compromise peace, the rights of citizens or the interests of the european union. our parliament knows what it does not want to say. he also knows what he wants to say. our attitude has always been and remains one of friendship and respect for the british people, but we still do not know what the british government wants. we do not know, for example, whether the uk will ask for a further delay to brexit and whether there is a valid reason for doing so. the british government does not tell us when, how or where it wants to leave the european union. this situation cannot last. we need to know if the uk respects us as much as we respect it, and respecting each other means telling each other the truth.
madam president, behind the outbursts of voices this morning there are very concrete realities and very concrete risks for the future of our countries. the british people have made the choice to leave the european union and that choice must be respected, but our dialogue this morning will be of no use if it is only about commenting on british political life. first of all, as you have said, mr negotiator, we must remain vigilant and focused on the most important thing: protecting the interests of all citizens. if the uk leaves without an agreement, we will all become more vulnerable to threats to our security and we will all be more vulnerable in our defence capabilities. cooperation with our british neighbours is an essential element for our intelligence services, police forces and armed forces. tomorrow we may find ourselves less effective together in dealing with the terrorist threat or in protecting our strategic interests. our economy would also be hit hard in an already difficult environment and i would draw your attention in particular to the significant cost of a no-deal exit for countries close to the british isles. you will allow me to mention france in particular, which would be handling the burden of managing a re-established land border with britain in the event of a no deal. in this economic disaster, one sector in particular must be mentioned, namely fisheries, because the closure of british waters would be a double penalty than our british friends and ourselves would inflict on each other. in short, thousands of people are watching us and expecting only one thing from us. we have to be responsible. with the newly elected president's eyes, i'm surprised at the turn our debates are taking. we are not here to play another game or to start a referendum decided by the voters, but to prepare an agreement and we are counting on you, dear michel, to continue working towards this.
i am not going to ask you to even answer that because the question came after the 30 seconds. the rest was a statement.
madam president, the united kingdom will be plunged into chaos if a hard brexit is to take place, which is born - let us remember this - of the lies of irresponsible political leaders who have deceived their citizens and who have led the current government to undermine the pillars of its own democracy by shutting down the british parliament. in the face of this historic contradiction, which will be extremely damaging to all european citizens, and especially to the british, the position of the spanish socialist delegation is clear and forceful, in line with the motion for a resolution we are going to vote on today: 'no' to a hard brexit. yes to an orderly withdrawal, based on the withdrawal agreement sealed by the twenty-seven. a non-negotiable agreement that guarantees, above all, the safeguarding of the rights and protection of our citizens. an agreement preserving peace in ireland by means of the backstop to avoid the re-establishment of a physical border with northern ireland and guaranteeing the integrity of the union's internal market. ladies and gentlemen, time is of the essence. i therefore appeal to the responsibility and sense of state of the british government to get the helm straight. we're still in time. there may be a reversal. (the president withdrew the floor)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the possibility of the united kingdom leaving the eu without an agreement can no longer be ruled out. as from 1 november, the consequences for european agriculture and fisheries will be considerable. they are very poorly evaluated. what is certain is that the beef, dairy and wine and spirits sectors will be the most affected. brexit is likely to be an unprecedented crisis, and we are moving forward in a fog and without a compass. irish beef producers are on the brink of collapse, as our colleague mr flanagan has just pointed out. agriculture commissioner phil hogan is well aware of this. he has already weighed in with all his might to squeeze €50 million from the agricultural budget in 2020 to cushion the blow. mr. hogan's concerns are legitimate. the european commission must therefore urgently present to this parliament a comprehensive plan to support all european farmers affected by brexit.
in writing. it is now three years since the british people voted to leave the union. and months of government demands to push back that fateful date. we are not immune to a new postponement. at some point, "enough is enough". the uncertainty surrounding brexit is plunging europeans and britons alike into the darkest of darkness. all sectors of activity, but also citizens, suffer from this situation. the fisheries sector will be particularly affected by brexit. and i'm not just talking about the fishermen. i am also talking about those women and men who cut fish in the morning in our shouts. these fishermen, these processors and all the trades that live off fishing. the whole industry will be affected. whole territories are going to be impacted. access to british waters for mainland fishermen and access to european waters for british fishermen are rights and customs that go back to times that no one here can claim to know and that brexit cannot destroy! it is urgent to follow up and give fisheries, and indeed all of europe, prospects.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, as a cancer specialist for 40 years, i thank you very much for having proposed this debate. the 4 million people affected in europe need a european plan against cancer. we need europe-wide access to the most innovative medicines, without stocks running out and at fair prices. we need a european scale to mobilise more research teams, thanks to the ambitious means of the horizon europe cancer mission. we need europe-wide networks to maintain rare cancers and especially paediatric cancers, which still kill 6,000 children a year. cancer is a disease of the body, but it is also a disease of social injustice. we are unequally protected against environmental carcinogens, unequally informed about risk behaviours such as smoking, poor diet and lack of physical activity. we are unevenly armed against misinformation about the vaccine that protects against cervical cancer. from one country to another in europe, we are unequal in terms of rapid access to quality care. finally, in the post-illness phase, we are unequal in our ability to return to employment and a harmonious social and emotional life. that is why, madam president, to want a european plan to combat cancer is, of course, to reduce the number one cause of death in europe, but it is also to initiate the reduction of inequalities and thus move towards a europe of health that is more solidary and more just.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully support the initiative of mrs ursula von der leyen to launch a european plan against cancer. but i am convinced that we can and must go further. let's take a concrete example: cervical cancer is one of the most deadly forms of cancer in women worldwide. more than 300,000 women die every year, 90% of them in developing countries. but with screening and vaccination, we have the means to save them. so, in line with the sustainable development goals, in line with the global appeal of the director-general of who, dr tedros, in line with our values and commitments for global health, commissioner, madam minister, we must urgently integrate into this european plan an 'external action' component, because we cannot accept that women die of a disease that can be prevented and cured, neither in europe nor in the world.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i spoke at the last environment committee on the shortage of medicines in europe. since this intervention was not answered or reacted to, i wanted to go back to it. there have been new drug shortages in france this summer. the relocation of our production sites causes delays in the delivery of products. in addition, some laboratories are reluctant to produce enough for france, which is considered to be unprofitable. this is a real scandal. in june, 2,318 drugs were in tension. in ten years, the number of divorces has increased 20-fold, and nearly one in four french couples have experienced a divorce. at european level, this shortage is worrying: 80% of the active ingredients are manufactured outside europe, compared with 20% 30 years ago. so there is an emergency. a cancer patient cannot have his treatment delayed because some pharmaceutical companies are only concerned with profitability. health care should be accessible to all. there is an urgent need to study ways of relocating drug production and developing strategic stocks.
madam chairman! the fight against cancer is one of the most important battles in the field of health policy today. every day, in hospitals across europe, doctors, patients, nurses and relatives are fighting to save lives and also to help cancer patients to live a better life after treatment. this is incredibly important. but we must also do more, and we must do more at european level, because we can actually do something. we need more resources for research, we need to do much more for prevention, and i think that the european level is particularly important here. we can, for example, reduce exposure to carcinogens and ban dangerous substances more quickly. we must also become much better at learning from each other's good experiences. today, more and more people are surviving cancer. and that is why it is also important that we learn, for example in relation to subsequent retraining. we need to do much more together, because together we can actually make a real step forward in the fight against cancer. this is important.
madam chair, the fight against cancer requires continuous financial investment, not only in health care, but also in scientific research and education. some european countries, including croatia, are finding it increasingly difficult to keep up with the most developed countries. the cost of new drugs and diagnostic methods is constantly rising, not accompanied by economic growth and rising living standards, which of course makes them less accessible. according to the latest data, croatia is in 10th place in cancer mortality, and in the european union, only its neighbor hungary is worse than our country. in croatia, 344 people per 100,000 population died of cancer in 2016, compared to the european average of 262 and the us average of 164. this alone speaks volumes about the need for greater investment, which will not be possible without strengthening the entrepreneurial climate and the private sector and cuts in some other parts of the burgeoning public sector.
madam president, according to the latest forecasts, cancer will kill 1 400 000 people in europe in 2019. we are all concerned by the great cause of the fight against cancer. we therefore need a major european plan to strengthen and pool resources for research and innovation. we must also harmonize public health policies, because only together can we work effectively and make progress in cancer research and control. i would like to mention the problem of the supply and the shortage of medicines in the various member states. the shortages include certain medicines for the treatment of serious diseases such as cancer. the causes of these shortages must be known and analysed. we also need to empower all actors, harmonise regulations at european level and facilitate the movement of medicines between member states. access to care for all european citizens must be guaranteed, with real transparency in the availability of treatment within the european union. finally, of course, we must guarantee a viable economic area for companies and laboratories, which is essential to maintain investment in research and innovation in europe. at the same time, these actors must play their part in the public interest. today, 60% of the essential components of medicines are manufactured outside europe, in china or india, in order to reduce labour costs and benefit from less stringent regulations. the relocation of production, however, leads to an increase in shortages when these medicines do not comply with the health rules of the country where they are to be marketed. it is therefore at european level that we must act on this great global cause. it is up to us to provide european answers.
in writing. – as a cancer survivor (up to now), i support all measures that can be taken from a political perspective which help to fight the disease in all its forms. the allocation of more research and more quality care for all patients is obviously a priority. but beyond this, i agree that two other goals should be actively pursued on a european basis. one is raising awareness across the population concerning the incidence of cancer, how it arises, how to watch for it. more and more educational programmes are needed which carry out this task in well—designed formats to ensure they communicate knowledge, not fright. the second goal is to promote ever—wider screening programmes, firstly for population strata that stand the highest risk, but also wider. all data show that such programmes, by identifying the disease when it is in an early stage, are succeeding to cut down mortality rates. there are ngos active on a european basis to promote these aims. the european commission would be wise if in its anti—cancer initiatives it reserve a substantive role for such ngos, for they have a good outreach.
in writing. mr president, we are talking today about a subject of great importance to our citizens. current rates of cancer in the european union suggest that one in three men and one in four women will develop cancer before the age of 75. cancer is the second most common cause of death in the european union. more than 1.5 million people die of cancer each year. we are facing a great challenge, and we need to do more to support the fight against this disease. on the one hand, by promoting research and cooperation, we can ensure that cancer patients are treated effectively across the eu. on the other hand, we expect that by raising awareness of cancer prevention, the number of new cancer cases will decrease by 15% by 2020. we need a comprehensive strategy that goes beyond treatment and medical activities. we also need prevention activities, including education, research and scientific activities. we should also remember that cancer treatment often has many side effects on health, and therefore, in addition to improving the effectiveness of therapy, more attention should be paid to how it affects the quality of life of patients. we need to increase investment in cancer if we are to successfully stop this plague of our time.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, i’m honoured to present the council’s position on the draft budget of the european union for the financial year 2020. i would like to start by underlining that this council position was adopted with the overwhelming support of the member states. after careful reflection and analysis, the council proposes for next year a budget of eur 167 billion in commitment appropriations. this is an increase of 0.6% compared to the budget voted in 2019. in the council’s view, next year’s budget is about continuity. next year is the last year of the multiannual financial framework 2014—2020, the year when many important european programmes will gradually come to their completion. the council wants the eu budget to continue to focus on our common priorities: strengthening the european economy, boosting its competitiveness, ensuring sufficient funding for migration and the protection of our external borders, and tackling environmental challenges and climate change. in these turbulent times we are fully aware of our responsibility as a budgetary authority. europe has to fight battles on many fronts to safeguard its achievements and competitiveness. with the union, we are faced with no lesser challenges: the complex discussion on the uk’s withdrawal, defining clear priorities for the next programming period, as well as ensuring this year’s smooth institutional transition, which will have a direct impact on our work in the autumn. in this overall context, we must remember that the budget is not just about numbers and figures. it is a powerful tool that sets the direction in which eu policies will evolve. that is why we must ensure that it is focused on european added value and delivers tangible results for our citizens. at the same time, as co—legislator, we need to be very careful how eu taxpayers’ contributions are spent. that is why the council acted, as always, with prudence and financial discipline in full consciousness of the budgetary constraints we face. we need to have sufficient leeway to meet the yet—unknown challenges and risks that await us next year. now let me go into more detail on the council position. the council proposes an adjustment of the commitment appropriations as presented by the commission in a draft budget for 2020 of eur 1.5 billion. this is not a cut in the budget but a reduction in the increase. compared to 2019, the eu budget will increase by eur 1 billion. on payments, no significant adjustments were considered necessary or appropriate. the council continues to support the reinforcement of the programmes under the competitiveness for growth and jobs sub—heading, which will receive eur 24 billion or +2.72% compared to this year. in addition, the resources dedicated to economic, social and territorial cohesion will increase by 2.23% in 2020, totalling eur 58.5 billion. in the field of migration and security, the eu budget will continue to support member states and the eu measures that were put in place in the last few years. additional resources are foreseen for frontex, the european border and coast guard agency – more than 30% compared to this year – in order to set up the standing corps of 10 000 border guards by 2027. i would like to stress the fact that a great number of key programmes across all headings have been accepted at the level of the commission’s draft budget. those are europe’s satellite navigation systems, egnos and galileo, the energy strand of the connecting europe facility, the european defence industrial development programme, the large infrastructure projects, copernicus and iter, erasmus plus – which i know is one of the programmes we all cherish most – the life programme for the environment and climate action, the union civil protection mechanism, and the european public prosecutor’s office, for example. i also want to underline the council position on some specific issues. first, the council rejects the proposal from the commission to use article 15.3 of the financial regulation. moreover, the council has also chosen to transfer in the reserve a certain amount of appropriations in the area of migration in order for the budgetary authority to be able to tailor its response to the actual needs on the ground in the coming year. as regards administration expenditure, the council’s approach is based on prudent budgeting and follows the line applied in member states’ national civil services. following a thorough assessment of real and justified needs in each institution and per budget line, the council has reduced this heading by eur 55 million. in addition, in a statement attached to the council’s position, we have asked the commission, like last year, to take into account the level of assigned revenues in heading 5 in view of our negotiations in november. let me conclude by saying that today’s debate, in my view, will mark the beginning of a series of constructive and open exchanges, which will allow us to reach a balanced and meaningful compromise. without deviating from our common goals, we will have to prioritise and demonstrate our strong commitment to europe. i am convinced we will be able to find a common position with an equally acceptable outcome within the agreed timeframe.
member of the commission. the european council has already made a number of recommendations on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. the council's position and today's debate will keep us on schedule. all those responsible - parliament, council, commission - are anxious to see the 2020 budget adopted by mid-november, in a difficult time, and to provide clarity for programmes, projects and people for the year ahead. we in the commission expect that we too will maintain continuity and that my possible successor, commissioner johannes hahn, will be able to take over the task of providing services for you as from 1 november. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if there is a withdrawal at the end of october and there is no regulation, then we will have a gap next year which we will have to discuss collectively here at the appropriate time. the kingdom of spain shall inform the commission of the date of the adoption of this decision and of the date of its notification. let us just think ahead: if there is no agreement and the kingdom leaves automatically, without extension, there will be a net gap of about 11 billion euros next year. and since the european union, unlike all other institutions - member states, regions, municipalities - has a comprehensive debt ban, we should immediately work together to close the gap. the commission would then make a proposal before the conciliation phase, which starts at the end of october. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it could be that the 11 billion is being made up entirely by higher deposits. i think that a middle ground between acceptable cuts that do us little harm and a slightly higher contribution will be the wise course. we'll come back to that in three weeks if necessary. we consider it important that the council, parliament and the commission share the same priorities in principle: employment, stabilising growth, strengthening our competitiveness, innovation, possible measures for climate protection at european level, which, in addition to emission reduction pathways, in addition to standard setting, also involve investment, and strengthening our internal and external security. the council shares the commission's proposal for some successful programmes: erasmus+, copernicus and other infrastructure projects; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are concerned about some of the cuts, and i will also be discussing with you in depth the concerns or the damage that cuts would cause. for many, many years we've been talking about 30% of our gdp going to research, 20% is right. horizon 2020 is only part of the research investment, but it is an important part because in the digital age, in many areas, we are doing the best research in europe. that is why we consider the reduction of 4 100 million unjustifiable. and i think that this is also something that the council finds difficult to represent in public, because these are concrete examples. we would have to cut 200% in key technologies of the future, such as nano, micro, laser and biotech, in areas where we can't follow america and china enough already. i wonder if this is really wise. the commission is also proposing to reduce the number of projects in the field of artificial intelligence, technologies for the digitisation of the european economy, or to reduce the european research council's budget by 1 180 million. in concrete terms, this means that 800 research projects are being abandoned, not being carried out, even though we are already unable to co-finance a very large number of useful research projects because of the limited resources we have. we believe that there are also good reasons for spending every euro at european level in health research, in the digital transformation of health and care, in the development of artificial intelligence in health care. we have joint ventures in the field of transport research, and they are now to be cut by 800%: shift2rail, single european sky, air traffic management research and others. and that would mean, in part, that we would have to simply shut down programs and projects. we should talk about this in the coming weeks. the commission's proposal is to be implemented by the end of the year, and the council's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. connecting europe, the crossborder infrastructure: 2000million cuts. this means that we cannot tackle some projects next year, including safe action austria, finland, france, germany, the netherlands. we want to introduce the free emergency e-call service here. this should be dropped. the seine-scheldt project, a waterway project to link the french inland waterway network with the belgian, dutch and german networks, is a viable alternative to the road and to road freight transport. or the eastern baltic hub the improvement of the port and hinterland connections of the hamina-kotka port in the scan-med corridor. and it is clear that if we do not tackle these programmes, if we do not implement these projects, we are not saving money - we are just starting a year later - but we are delaying, we are shifting the investment that makes sense. i will fight for every project in the council and ask both the budgetary authorities - the council and parliament - to follow these good arguments in the end. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the same applies to cosme measures for smes. the cuts would mean that europe cannot be a point of contact and a partner for many start-ups and small businesses. the reduction of 250 million in the fight against transnational organised crime, terrorism and cybercrime - here we have good reasons for not taking part in the cuts, and the citizens are behind us on these issues. europe and the world section four: a reduction of 2 billion is proposed here; 70 of these are for development aid and 50 for humanitarian aid. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. we must do more to ensure that human dignity is restored in these regions - in the sahel, the maghreb and the sub-sahel - so that we can help in the event of disasters. the european union is not the only country in the world which is faced with this problem. the agencies are proposed to be cut: frontex, the european centre for the promotion of vocational training, the medicines agency, the asylum office. the cuts mean our service is getting worse. i would like to express my reservations here and then come back to them in the course of the debate. and despite the difficult times with the kingdom's departure, we should do everything we can to avoid escalating the rituals we've always performed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we as the commission want to do everything we can to achieve this. in difficult times, good governance would be a clear message to a budget that europe is capable of action and wants to remain a service provider for our fellow citizens.
the rapporteur. the commission has already done so. i welcome you very warmly, mr minister, and the presidency of the council, ladies and gentlemen. i should like to begin by thanking my shadow rapporteurs, with whom i have already had the opportunity to talk in person, and also those who are willing to accompany me again tomorrow through the whole budget and over the next few weeks, so that we as a parliament can give a response to the council decision as closely as possible and in a clear and unambiguous way, as parliament sees it. first of all, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you very much for not wanting to repeat what the commissioner has just said. i couldn't have said it better myself. it is not a question of a traditional division of roles, where we in parliament simply want a lot and the council is cutting in principle, but it is a question of the council setting itself future priorities which it sees as priorities, but then giving the exact opposite answer in its reply in the context of the financials. if we want to emphasize that we are focusing on climate issues, on digitisation issues, on artificial intelligence, on cancer prevention, on fighting cancer, on fighting the most serious diseases and so on, if we want to emphasize that, then the answer really cannot be: we then cut the commission's proposal. the commission proposal would then at least have to be supported. when i see that you are making more than 50% of the cuts in science and research in area 1a, which represents 15% of the eu budget, i can no longer understand it, given the priorities you have set for yourself. if we want to be at the forefront, if we want to not only be a role model, but also show that we are bringing jobs and climate together in a meaningful way, economic competitiveness, and at the same time giving answers to climate issues, then innovation and research is the answer, then focusing in that area is the answer. you say that in the total budget you have 0.6% increase; this is actually actually minus, if i'm being completely honest right now, it's not even inflation. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the implementation of the programme. those who submit projects to us - excellent, well prepared, well analysed and evaluated, have the best marks - there are areas where we have to reject 90%, 93% simply because there is no money. these are areas that are promising - nanotechnologies are discussed, biotechnologies, future and emerging technologies - these are very different areas. i therefore urge you not to let us wait until the last day as rapporteurs and to be proud that you are not actually talking to us about the content. i am prepared, as the commissioner has said, to work with you to solve as many problems as possible in advance, not because we are stubborn, but because we believe that we want more for the future of the european union and what european added value is in the field of climate, in the field of development aid, in the field of future technologies; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to congratulate the commission on its adherence to the restrictions, and i must say this with all due respect: i would like to see a member state which is as careful in its administration as we are in the european union in our administrative expenditure. dear council, please give us answers, talk to us about the content! we can't just try to manage everything on the last night, we should talk to each other first.
the rapporteur. madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, when we started negotiating the current financial framework back in 2011, the situation was actually quite different. we talked about fighting climate change and it was a priority, but we didn't have that sense of urgency. we didn't even know that we were going to have to face a refugee crisis, nor did we know the ultimate impact that the economic crisis was going to have on our lives, nor did we know about brexit, for example. so the situation has changed a lot. but we have, for example, launched a youth guarantee to fight unemployment. we committed to investing 20 percent, to spending 20 percent of the budget on fighting climate change. we even accepted a budget that was less than what this parliament wanted, always with the commitment to implement it one hundred per cent, and that was a commitment of this parliament, of the commission and also of the council. so, really, what we're asking for, or what we have left for 2020, is simply to deliver on what we committed to at that time. and it can be done. it can be done because we have enough room to get the youth unemployment program back in the 2020 budget. it can be done because we have funds available to continue to increase erasmus grants. because we have - and there has been a lot of talk here and commissioner oettinger has spelled them out - excellent research projects for which we are only hoping that there will be more money to carry them out. we must continue to provide financial aid to the countries which continue to receive refugees, and of course we have not only the possibility but also the obligation to at least meet that 20% target in the fight against climate change, 20% which is clearly already out of date. that is why it is so important that we are ambitious in the draft budget for 2020 and, above all, because it has to serve as a transition to the next financial framework. because if we want to make a leap on the social pillar, on environmental policy, if we don't want to miss the train of digitization or if we want to make a just transition so that the usual ones don't pay, we have to start now. we have just had a debate on cancer; everyone has called for more funds from the european budget. we have to keep it. and, furthermore, the president-elect, mrs von der leyen, in her speech to this house, made a kind of roadmap of priorities for the next five years, and the budget we pass for 2020 will be decisive in whether or not we are on the right track. and it will depend on us whether or not there are resources to enable all these policies to be put into effect. we, the parliament, but also the council. what does the council propose? he is proposing, as usual, more cuts. no matter what commitments, emergencies, needs, no matter how radically the situation has changed, in the end we only have cuts. cuts which go against the policies, which go against their own speech and commitments, and which go even against sound financial management, because they even refuse to provide the necessary resources to the institutions which have to implement those policies - which have to implement them, which have to monitor them - or institutions which defend the rights of citizens: the court of justice, the court of auditors, the ombudsman or the committee of the regions or the economic and social committee. and that's it, chairman. with this attitude we will not only fail to deliver on what we have promised, but we will also lose the opportunity to prepare the european union to lead the global change that this world needs.
president of the committee on budgets. mr president, earlier this year, in march, the previous parliament adopted the guidelines for the 2020 budget. it also set out the priorities and saw the 2020 budget as a bridge to the future of europe. four major accents: investing in innovation, sustainable development, protection of citizens and security. parliament also pointed out the special role of the new budget. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (enif). we believe that a strong, responsible and forward-looking 2020 budget will facilitate agreement and the transition to the next mff. it is crucial for parliament to make full use of the existing flexibility and other provisions of the mff regulation and the financial regulation. in the light of the foregoing, the committee on budgets discussed the council's position on the 2020 budget and raised a number of concerns which were also raised by previous speakers but which i would like to reiterate because they are so important. for example, the council claims to use absorption capacity and implementation rates to reduce expenditure on some programmes. but in many cases, the pruning seems rather arbitrary and unsubstantiated. what about, for example, the proposed cuts in horizon 2020 and cosme? the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. i am thinking of digitisation, innovation, technological development, integration of climate policy in all sectors and special attention to improving the digital skills of young people. we don't really find much on this. this brings me to my next point automatically. the fact that parliament and, in future, the commission have been renewed seems to me to be an excellent opportunity to give new impetus to cooperation between the institutions in the negotiations for the next budgetary discussions and in the discussions on the next mff. i am convinced that there is room for improvement in the quality of the meetings between the two budgetary authorities and the commission. i think this starts with listening to each other better and formulating arguments better. i would also like to point out that it is not very productive for agreements to be interpreted differently by different parties, whether they are willing to do so or not. finally, all the institutions are working together with one single objective, and that is to deliver a budget of quality, financially responsible for europe and its citizens.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, this is the last budget for 2020 of the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020. it would be swing time. it would be time for the council to learn from the past and draw lessons. it should be remembered that this multiannual financial framework was guided by the europe 2020 strategy where the council, the commission, parliament and the member states committed themselves to objectives. the climate objective will not be met. the poverty reduction objective will not be respected. the objective of research and innovation will not be respected. and what does the council do? it cuts research, it cuts climate programmes, it does not help small and mediumsized enterprises and it cuts programmes for them. do you think it is right to cut something that is important for the competitiveness of the european union? cutting the research programme horizon 2020 by 413 million euros? the council is against its own proclamations and does not even respect the legislation it adopts and agrees with, where parliament has also been involved. so you do not accept that article 15 (3), which means that what has not been used can be used, you do not even accept to respect that article? the failure to implement the multiannual financial framework, the lack of financial resources for solidarity, for migration, for competitiveness, is a huge cost that we cannot accept.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on monday we began our work with a minute's silence to pay tribute to all those who died in spain as a result of the dramatic rains. in europe too, climate change is now causing thousands of families to weep and to see their lives shattered. monday was very emotional for all of us. but beyond emotion, the question is whether we are capable of taking action. if we want to avoid climate chaos, we know what we have to do: we have to insulate all our homes, all our factories, we have to develop public transport, renewables, change our agricultural model. to finance this gigantic project, the european court of auditors says that €1.1 billion is needed each year. the european court of auditors tells us that the private and public sectors combined need to find €1.1 trillion each year. i'm sorry to hear that. the budget we have today is only 0.6 billion more than the climate budget. if we take inflation into account, the climate budget is down 1.3%. i hate to say it, but the climate budget is going down 1.3%. at least the message is clear: the amazon is burning, we don't care. the future of our children is none of our business. but our children will be out on the streets on saturday and will ask us to act forcefully for the common good. but the money's there if you want it. the european central bank just announced that it was going to create 240 billion euros in one year. the amount of the loan is eur 240 billion. we all know how many homes we could insulate, how many jobs we could create across our territories, with 240 billion euros a year. and we all know that for the last four years, 90 percent of the money created by the european central bank has gone to speculation. can someone explain to me today why we don't put all of that $240 billion to insulate our homes, transform our agriculture, invest in renewables and create millions of jobs across our territories? who can explain it to me? who can explain to these children why these 240 billion won't be used for the common good? we are facing a crisis unlike any other, a crisis new in scale, new in gravity. we must, please, bring new answers. that's why we really need to build up our ambition. as mr eider has said, the socialist group rejects all the cuts made by the council. there's no consistency in these cuts. the socialist group wants to use all available means to strengthen our action. there are about 3.4 billion to strengthen our action for inclusion, for youth employment, for the reception of refugees, for the climate. all this is important, but it will be completely inadequate. that is why, beyond the 3.4 billion, the socialist group will only vote on the budget if we have guarantees from the commission and the council that we can move very quickly on new resources. it is not enough, for example, to say that we want a climate bank. everyone, now, agrees on the climate bank. all right, that was one of our group's requests. but we must say how many billions of our own capital are being put into ensuring that, in all our territories, we know that money is really going to come in to create jobs. similarly, if we can find new resources and limit the use of airplanes, we must end the tax exemption on kerosene. all these resources will be ready to feed the next multiannual budget. my friends, it's time to declare war on climate change, it's time to stop the small steps. it is the only war that will not cause any casualties and will prevent millions of deaths. it is the only war that will bring the peoples together and it is up to europe to declare war. the nerve of war is money, and the socialist group wants a budget that is up to the challenge.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, last week president erdogan again threatened the european union with opening the doors of emigration to europe. somewhat used to the resignation and submission of our european leaders, he again points to the blackmail weapon of the migration flood. the european commission has already paid 5.6 billion euros to turkey and is preparing to pay an additional 400 million euros in the coming weeks. when we consider the paltry budget allocated to frontex, namely 420 million euros in the 2020 budget, we are entitled to ask what the good sense of these agreements and budgetary choices is. the european union is once again demonstrating its inability to protect its borders. it is urgent that the nations be given back their territorial sovereignty so that they can finally take back control of the protection of their national borders. as for frontex, we could consider transforming it into an agency for free cooperation between european nations accredited to defend our external borders and not, as is the case today, an uncontrolled reception of migrants.
madam president, mr secretary of state, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the year 2020 will mark the end of the current financial framework and will therefore be the year of the balance sheet. at the end of 2013, the european institutions committed to allocating 20 percent of spending to climate protection. but that commitment is about to be broken. such failure would be in the context of an increase in the number of disasters. our citizens themselves sent a clear message last may. they expect the union to act, to protect. it is our duty to respond to their concerns. the institutions must respect and honour their commitments. for our group, renew europe, it is essential to reach 20 per cent. it is about protecting the planet and the bond of trust between citizens and their institutions. mr secretary of state, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we take note of the council's position and its annual quest for more savings, which is in total contradiction to the climate ambition of the finnish presidency. nevertheless, we expect all institutions to keep their promises. new commitments will accompany the next financial framework. let us ensure that this 2020 budget is a coherent link.
madam president, commissioner, minister, i have to ask you to stop this. i want to express my concern at the very low increase in payment appropriations. although they are up by 5.1 billion compared to the current year, the fact that the 2020 budget is the last year of the financial framework is likely to accelerate the implementation of projects, both under cohesion policy and rural development. the draft budget was based on conservative assumptions, in particular as regards the pace of implementation of projects under both funds, which is all the more surprising given that the margin for payment appropriations is as high as eur 20 billion. this could lead to a recurrence of the payment backlog problem that we experienced between 2012 and 2015, with a peak in 2014 when the backlog was eur 30 billion. instead, it is a good idea to base the draft budget on the draft withdrawal agreement for the united kingdom. if there is a no-deal brexit and the uk does not meet its financial commitments, the 2020 budget should be amended by an amending budget.
madam president, mr tiilikainen, so far no speaker from any political group has been found to support even indirectly the cuts proposed by the council and your presidency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is impossible with the cuts you propose to achieve the objectives, not the objectives demanded by the european parliament, not the objectives set by the commission but the objectives set by the council itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is how we will achieve the objectives of climate change, of combating youth unemployment, of cohesion, of innovation, of education. you need to change lanes. less money doesn't get more done. only jesus christ could do that!
madam president, commissioner günther oettinger, minister, the council - as has already been said - is planning substantial cuts for 2020. more than 27 million. it is a budget, as one might say in french, cut to the bone. that is why my colleague, mr olivier chastel, has proposed several amendments to reverse these reductions. the challenges of libe i shall concentrate on this subject, as rapporteur for my group. the council is planning a cut of 20 million in the budget of the european external action service. we know how important the reality of its mission is and that, particularly on migration issues, the development of readmission agreements requires resources. we would also like to support the resources allocated to agencies such as frontex, europol and eurojust. if the member states are willing to respond effectively, these agencies can make a major contribution to this enhanced cooperation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the amazon is on fire, and drought is affecting the countries of the european union. can the climate finally become a priority in this european budget? in the last few weeks i have heard some very good statements calling for emergency measures to be taken, i have heard speeches to support farmers in this difficult phase, i have heard promises to accompany them towards production systems that are resilient to drought. the amendments i tabled in the committee on agriculture to support agroecology and help farmers from 2020 were not accepted. we missed a first opportunity and i regret it. the citizens of europe will not be satisfied with fine words. when we vote on the multiannual budget, parliament will have to mobilise the funds so that the next cap takes the issue of climate change into its own hands. and now, when you see the amendments on agroecology, a word of advice: press the green button, so you can be sure you have made the right choice.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the duty of memory is, as the name suggests, a duty for us as members of the european parliament. it gives meaning to the work we do, and it gives us a sense of where we want to go. the roots are what make a tree grow tall and strong. we have to provide ourselves with financial resources. the previous programme, 'europe for citizens', has demonstrated its effectiveness and added value, with €200 million dedicated to memory-related field actions. if the european commission really wants to promote the duty of memory, mr commissioner, it must provide itself with the financial means to do so. in the next multiannual budgetary framework, the commission should support the amounts proposed by parliament for the new 'rights and values' memorial programme. to date, the account is not there. the commission halved the 'memorandum' budget proposed by parliament. we must act!
madam president, officer, i have to go. today's debate is a tribute to the victims of the communist and national socialist dictatorships. we hungarians and the nations of central and eastern europe are well aware of the atrocities committed by both shameful dictatorships. yet, unfortunately, we find that in a united europe, the deeds of communism are disproportionately underreported. but the communists ruined the whole life of my grandparents' generation, stole their scene. but there was one thing they could not take away from them: their persistence, their enduring faith in the future. this is what makes the nations of central and eastern europe really strong. this period in central and eastern european history must be known and kept alive in order to understand the reality of post-communist nations today. for european unity to be a reality, the reality of the evils of communism must be acknowledged and condemned on an equal footing. this empathy is still lacking in the more fortunate half of europe that did not have to suffer the tyranny of communism. it is sad that condemnation of communism can still be so divisive and divisive, even here in parliament, and that the focus is being diverted from the heart of the matter. and europe cannot be united until there is a consensus on this issue.
madam president, this resolution on european memory raises the question of european heritage and places of memory. we want to celebrate european memory, and for that we need places. museums, memorials, memorials are all places that make up the geography of our memory. our union has a duty to maintain, protect and enhance them, so that citizens can refer to concrete places and sites, so that they continue to inspire our action and be passed on to younger generations, through appropriate, modern means of communication and integrated into our national educational programmes. there are initiatives, such as the european heritage label or the european heritage days, which take place this weekend. but we need more volunteerism in protecting these monuments which, by recalling the tragedies of the past, are the foundation of our rights and values. at a time of a worrying resurgence of extremist movements, european memories must inspire the future of europe, in a visible and vivid way.
madam president, it is difficult to deny a feeling of hypocrisy to companies which are confronted almost daily with the pointless, formalist and sometimes excessive aspect of the fight against money laundering. we believe that the real cause of the leprosy of money laundering is simply the principle of the free movement of capital in the world. it is difficult to conceive of large-scale laundering operations without complicit banking networks, without complicit electronic financing platforms, without the ease with which trusts and trusts, which conceal the identity of the final beneficiaries of financial transactions, provide for laundering operations. it is also difficult to deny the role of ngos, foundations which sometimes conceal tax-optimisation and tax evasion operations, finance corruption operations and engage in large-scale money laundering operations, in this dramatic landscape. in this respect, we can only urge the commission to evaluate its action, the formalism in relation to the real results of the fight against money laundering and to put an end to the hypocrisy that a number of tax havens, domiciled companies without real activity, are located in the very heart of the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have two questions. why is the level of repression never going down in turkey? why is mr. erdogan now removing elected mayors whose only fault is being kurdish? this persistence and frenzy seem incomprehensible, except that hope is being revived in turkey, as two of our colleagues have just said. ankara has gone into opposition, istanbul has increased its first vote in favour of a young and brilliant kemalist, social discontent is growing even among the akp electorate and, the latest defeat for this president, three of the biggest figures in his own party have just slammed the door to go and found new formations. mr erdogan is worried, and he has reason to be, which is why he is striking more and more blindly, and that is why our parliament, ladies and gentlemen, has such a duty to defend the democrats of this country again and again.
mr president, recently turkish president erdogan threatened to unleash a wave of migration on europe if he did not receive additional funds. we are paying for the mistake of delegating our vital protection to others. mr erdogan, who sees himself as a sultan of the new ottoman empire, knows that politics is a balance of power. he's used to this unfriendly behavior. he is attacking greece or cyprus, and when one of our colleagues in this house makes this point, the house does not hear him. it exploits the turkish diasporas in our countries and the european union turns its head. the situation we are experiencing with turkey is telling: the eu has made europe the empire of weakness. but most importantly, by destroying our border protections, the eu has disarmed our nations and placed them under the threat of a migrant flood that is now being used as a weapon of mass destruction. it's not just a mistake, it's a mistake.
mr president, yes, we must condemn and denounce all those countries which oppress women: iran, of course, as mentioned in this resolution, but also saudi arabia and pakistan. how can we not remember the persecution that asia bibi suffered? the reality is that all countries that have made sharia law a fundamental legal text oppress women. it is the use of this text that must be firmly condemned. mrs von der leyen has chosen to appoint a commissioner to protect our european way of life. one of the first safeguards will be to denounce this text, the sharia, so that no community can claim its use in europe. we shall vote on this text. it's better to have a small step, a small step, than no text. but in failing to name the real problem, we remain the enablers of the oppression of women in too many countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i want to commend the courage of all the defenders of women's rights in iran, who are peacefully denouncing the continuing repression they are suffering because of the exercise of their right to freedom of expression and their opposition to the compulsory veil. in 2018, in iran, about 100 women were arrested for such actions. they're still in custody. at least five of them have dual nationality, eu-iran. they are considered enemies of the state and are denied access to justice. we call on the iranian judiciary to release them immediately and unconditionally. finally, we call on our member states in tehran to do everything possible to obtain the complete list of imprisoned persons with dual eu-iranian nationality, to support and protect them, including through prison visits, public statements and diplomatic efforts to secure their early release.
mr president, i think one of the most important clauses of the resolution we’ve approved today in the parliament, and which i supported, is the importance of ensuring young people and future generations know and understand what happened during the darkest days of europe’s past. and in voting for this resolution, i pay particular tribute to the work of the national holocaust centre and museum in the east midlands, and the holocaust education trust in the uk, who do vital work to ensure that young people and school students understand what happened and understand their role, and can be empowered to tackle hate and prejudice today. i also pay particular tribute to holocaust survivors who make it their personal mission today to ensure that those young people and all of us today understand the significance of what happened and can help empower all of us to ensure that when we say ‘never again’, we truly mean never again.
mr president, 80 years ago, half a million red army troops backed by 5 000 tanks, 2 000 combat aircraft, smashed their way into poland in a surprise attack. masters of dezinformatsiya, they had first spread the story that they were coming to help their slavic brothers against the nazis, but their intentions soon became clear. when the nazi and soviet armies met at brest-litovsk, they staged a joint parade. the two generals guderian and krivoshein had a slap-up lunch at which the soviets invited the german journalists to join them in moscow after the victory over capitalist albion. the amnesia, the selective amnesia, that parts of the modern left have about the nazi—soviet pact, is an extraordinary monument to the follies of human nature. we keep being told that the red army liberated us, that the western theatre was just a sideshow, that it was really thanks to stalin that fascism was defeated. can we really have forgotten that for fully a third of the conflict they were on the same side? the only real victors here were the left who ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i voted against the resolution as a whole even though i was in favour of certain paragraphs. i am against the whole approach of equating the nazis to communist regimes. there is only one devil and the absolute devil is nazi ideology. i am against the primitivisation of the approach to the history of world war ii demonstrated by this resolution. where is munich? forgotten. where are the bilateral treaties concluded well before 23 august 1939? my family had to make sacrifices because of the nazis; my family had to make sacrifices because of deportations. i repeat: there is only one devil and it is nazi ideology.
mr president, as a member of the culture and education committee for the past five years, and now as a vice-chair of that same committee, i always seek to raise awareness of remembrance of our difficult history, whether that be through erasmus+, the european solidarity corps or creative europe projects. i am here partly because my mother’s cousin, kenny chatfield, lies in a grave in northern france – shot down, aged 18, fighting fascism. the european union is first and foremost a peace project, born out of the idea that europe could not afford another world war. the material and human cost was immense, and we’ve moved from mass displacement and destruction across europe to striving for peace and prosperity through common endeavour, cooperation and collaboration between european countries. these turning points in the past century should be told and understood across all member states. therefore i encourage those projects which themselves encourage tolerance, mutual understanding, intercultural dialogue and reconciliation.
mr president, i supported the resolution on the implementation of the anti-money laundering legislation because this issue is very important. we know cases like the panama papers and also terrorist attacks in europe that were partly financed through money laundering, which proves it. it is sad that ten european countries still have not implemented the fourth anti-money laundering directive. i'm glad the czech republic isn't one of them. the fifth directive and its requirements in the form of stricter identity verification and bank claims regimes are certainly in place. it is necessary for member states to allocate more resources to their financial analysis services, which should also exchange information better. unfortunately, money laundering knows no borders, either explicitly or figuratively. so international cooperation at eu level is a global necessity.
mr president, this resolution is important. one percent of european gdp is involved in suspicious financial activities. this is the equivalent of the annual budget of the european union. tax fraudsters and criminal or terrorist organisations depend on dubious banking relays, which is why the fight against money laundering must be conducted with the utmost firmness. the scandal of danske bank and all the others involved in a money laundering case of over 200 billion euros has revealed the weakness of the european union's intervention capacity. the european banking authority has shown its impotence by not taking any action. the trans-partisan resolution i co-signed is, i hope, an important first step in the drive to strengthen the tools for combating money laundering at european level. of course, we must go further, and we cannot act effectively without drawing up an exhaustive list of tax havens, because many of these notorious tax havens are located within the european union itself. without tackling them, any policy will be doomed to failure.
ladies and gentlemen, i voted 'abstention' because i understand and support the importance of combating money laundering, but at the same time i believe that some elements are in conflict with the areas of competence of the member states. i see again a proposal to create an agency to tackle this and other problems. but will another agency and the creation of bureaucratic procedures be the solution? not in my book. and the answer has to be a resounding "no". we must be very careful to stick to the technical and legislative elements of the fight against money laundering, without using them as instruments to achieve political goals against individual countries, as we have seen in the cases of hungary and poland.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on threats to the status of volunteer firefighters in the european union (2019/2806(rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, the title of this statement reflects the preoccupation that exists among the fire services in several member states, notably in france, about the impact on volunteer firefighters of a judgment of the court of justice of the european union last year in the matzak case. i understand those worries and i hope i can assuage them at least to some extent. of course, the commission cannot speak for, or bind, the court, but i can reassure you that we are following the situation of emergency services, including volunteer firefighters, very closely. firefighters are a key element of emergency and civil protection services everywhere in europe. across the european union, firefighting services are made up of a mixture of professional or career firefighters and volunteers. the composition of firefighting services varies greatly among different member states. for instance, 80% of french firefighters are volunteers. the numbers are even higher in countries such as germany or austria, but in other countries, like greece or bulgaria, the firefighting workforce is almost entirely professionalised. to be clear, the matzak judgment does not oblige member states to have a particular mix of career firefighters and volunteer firefighters. it certainly does not oblige member states to get rid of volunteer firefighters altogether or always to treat volunteers in exactly the same way as career professionals. the central issue of the matzak judgment was about resting time and, more specifically, the entitlement to resting time for firefighters who, while on standby, are obliged, first, to live and stay permanently near to the fire station and, second, to respond to a call and reach the fire station within eight minutes. the court concluded that, given these specific constraints, mr matzak’s standby time should be counted as working time for the purpose of the working time directive and should not be seen as free time. most of the ensuing debate about the matzak case has been centered on the notion of ‘worker’. however, on that point the judgment said nothing new. a long line of case law makes clear that, under eu law, whether someone is considered a worker depends on the circumstances. somebody who pursues real and genuine activities, who is subordinated to another person and who is remunerated in return, is a worker for the purposes of this piece of law. in the case of mr matzak, the court concluded that, in his particular circumstances, these conditions were met. following the judgment, various stakeholders jumped to the conclusion that eu law had made it impossible to have volunteer firefighters, but i believe this conclusion is incorrect. let me be clear: there is no one—size—fits—all reply to the question of the status of volunteer firefighters under the working time directive. each specific case needs to be assessed against the criteria for qualification as a worker established by the court, and, if the working time directive does apply, its provisions on resting time should be respected. but the working time directive offers a lot of flexibility for sectors such as firefighting and emergency services. for instance, derogations from daily and weekly rests are possible, of course, if compensatory rest is provided. member states may also allow workers to opt out of the 48 hour average maximum working time under certain conditions, and in exceptional circumstances, such as natural or technological disasters, attacks or major incidents, the directive can be disapplied altogether. in summary, each case must be examined on its own merits to ensure that the status of volunteer is not used to circumvent european labour law. the matzak judgment does not mean that every volunteer firefighter in the european union automatically qualifies as a worker and, in any event, the working time directive provides for flexibility to accommodate the needs of emergency services, such as fire services, without denying the firefighters protection of their health and safety.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, forest fires, floods, accidents, rescue, assistance to the individual - the list of services provided by volunteer firefighters is long and grows longer every year. the events of this summer have reminded us that their intervention is indispensable in our daily lives, to ensure the protection of citizens, businesses and rural areas. volunteer firefighters also help to create social links, especially in rural areas. their selfless citizenship is essential for a more united europe. in the european union, there are many volunteers among the 3.5 million firefighters. in france, these volunteers make up 80% of the workforce. they alone account for two thirds of the time spent by the protection services. i would like to sound the alarm, ladies and gentlemen, because we believe that this model is in danger. a judgment of the court of justice of the european union in february 2018 qualified the situation of a belgian volunteer firefighter under house arrest as working time. the volunteer firefighter's periods of absence were recognised as working time and he was compensated. if this judgment is to become case law, this will have to be specified, but we are concerned that this breach will lead to a possible integration of volunteer firefighters into the scope of the working time directive. the obligations laid down by that directive in terms of rest, work and leave would therefore render the activity of volunteer firefighters incompatible with salaried employment. there is therefore a real risk that volunteering may be confused with a workload. if that were the case, that would spell the end of our backup model. it would also undermine the free civic engagement that volunteering represents. the consequences of this situation would be dramatic because of the legal uncertainty. europe, of course, is supposed to promote forms of volunteering and guarantee the safety of its citizens. we are now faced with a situation where it would be the other way around. that is why we are mobilizing, and i am mobilizing, with my colleagues here today, but also with all my colleagues in the epp group, and we are asking for the scope of this directive to be clarified. we call on the european commission to implement concrete actions, a framework to restore legal certainty to the voluntary firefighting system.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i can basically agree with those who have spoken before me: we really need to consider such a new, separate directive, and i would be glad if we could find some planning certainty for our fire brigades here. in my member state, germany, there are currently 1.1 million active firefighters; 95% of them are volunteer firefighters. there are only about 100 professional firefighters, but 24,000 volunteer firefighters. i myself come from a very rural region in the upper german alps; the nearest professional fire station is 150 kilometers away in augsburg. but volunteer work is not limited to the fire department. throughout germany, there are 1.8 million volunteers in the emergency services, fire and rescue services. in my own state, bavaria, there are 470,000 rescue workers, of whom 450,000 are volunteers. these figures illustrate that volunteerism is the backbone of our fire and rescue service. but not only that. the voluntary fire service is a central part of social life, particularly in rural areas. the exchange of all age groups among themselves in all social strata is specifically maintained here. we must therefore promote and protect this commitment. volunteering is meant to fulfill and not frustrate. we now have this european working time directive - my predecessors have already dealt with this - and we must of course note that voluntary working time cannot be set off against working time in gainful employment. that would be a threat to our entire rescue system. in germany we have for many years assumed that voluntary service does not fall within this scope. and now we have this court ruling which again causes us great concern because we cannot define volunteer firefighters as workers in the sense of a normal working life. we need legal certainty, and we need clarity for our volunteer firefighters. unfortunately, we are not getting anywhere at the moment, and there is only this vague prospect for us and all the volunteers that we will actually find solutions here at european level. our system of voluntary service has proved its worth and is playing an important role in the social fabric that has grown. we must therefore find concrete solutions so that voluntary work can continue to be possible in europe without any ifs and buts.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, today in this house, i am delighted because we are trying to make the invisible visible. we're used to seeing firefighters, but we don't see them anymore! i am talking about men and women whom we have probably all met in each of our member states, who have been stopped on the side of the road or blackened by the smoke of fires. it is thanks to their strength of vocation and dedication that all this is possible. then who are we talking about? as i was saying, men and women everywhere responding to the distress calls, in the big cities, in the small villages, in all weathers, whether it's raining, whether it's snowing, whether it's pouring. whenever you, your family or friends, all citizens, need help, they will be there, caring; they may be there to save your life. so these men and women are the firefighters. yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, if you took public transport to parliament as i did, you could not escape this cry of distress. ladies and gentlemen, today these firemen, our firemen, are in the red and i think it is time to thank them in this house and pay tribute to them. i would add that in france there is a firefighters' strike, and i give them my unwavering support. in france, as in most of our member states, the vast majority (80%) of interventions are carried out by volunteer teams. of course, the volunteers receive compensation, and that's the least of it! but when are we going to give them the recognition they deserve? during their service, they do not receive any pension contributions, contributions for risks incurred, or any protective status. we cannot accept that these men and women are to be made to feel like slaves and i assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that their safety is our responsibility. the day before yesterday, i was talking to a fireman from the pyrénées-atlantiques. he told me the story of a 21-year-old volunteer firefighter who was burned in the hands, arms and thighs trying to save his colleagues from a deadly fire. today, this young volunteer firefighter has to pay back 9,000 euros. why would you do that? because the medical examiner deemed it not part of his job! i ask you this question: if it was you he saved, you who are sitting comfortably in your chair today... put yourself in his place! double time, you'd be hit in the flesh and in the wallet, just for doing your duty. so let's go back to the volunteer status. this status has just been called into question by a judgment of the european court of justice, which recognises the qualification of workers, in accordance with the directive on the limitation of working time. we can only appreciate the trajectory it indicates. however, this change in status implies a fundamental change in the organisation of the fire brigade. and i see that many are already calling for an exception to the directive. so to those, to those big profit-minded explorers, i say they are very much mistaken. volunteering is not the answer. we must return to service and the common good. in closing, i would say that those who protect us today need us to protect them, so that their motto, which is "save or perish", never becomes "save and perish".
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the commission for this communication, which was very much awaited in my view on this sensitive subject, given the challenges facing the people involved in the rescue model. in this speech today, which is my first speech as a new member of parliament in the plenary, as a member of the european parliament, let me stress three points. my first point is to remind you that there are some 3.5 million volunteer firefighters in the european union and i would like to commend them for their commitment to serving all, as my colleagues have done, at a time when climate change is unfortunately leading to more and more natural disasters. this is how the impact of the matzac ruling should be measured. this court judgment, considering the voluntary time of certain categories of firefighters on duty at home as working time, may have been surprising, although it concerned a very specific situation, which is not that of all volunteer firefighters. in this context, it is clear that this first clarification is more than welcome. thank you for that, madam commissioner. i come now to my second point. i listened to you very carefully, commissioner. i noted that the commission felt that the specificities of the national models had to be taken into account. i also heard that you rightly stressed the importance of the principle of subsidiarity in this area. i'm glad to hear it. this approach should preserve the physical organisation of our emergency services and the ability to mobilise men and women in emergency situations throughout the european union. it is this preservation, of course, that i wish to see. finally, my third point is more general. today's debate is an opportunity to recall the urgent need to support civil protection mechanisms through appropriate european instruments. we need to encourage more coordination of our rescue systems. we need to consolidate the european civil protection mechanism, pool our resources and emergency scenarios, and share our expertise. in conclusion, i would like to express my relief at the exchange in plenary today. let us preserve these national models of civil security, some of which are more particularly based on altruism and volunteering, which work well and guarantee the territorial proximity of relief. at the same time, let us give the european union a boost by means of the levers and at the level where it is effective. this is the europe i am committed to, one that protects its citizens ever better, one that supports the different forms of engagement in society, one that allows them to express concretely what solidarity and self-giving for the community is.
madam president, dear but too rare colleagues, courage and dedication, the motto of volunteer firefighters, these two words are there to remind us, if necessary, that every day, men and women volunteer and professional firefighters are ready to sacrifice their lives to save ours. every day, french farmers, artisans, small and medium-sized enterprises and others, put on their uniforms to help us. however, the courage and dedication of this generous commitment to the community is not well rewarded. every day our firefighters are attacked in response. our volunteer firefighters feel very alone and very unloved. their situation does not seem to have improved since marine le pen's last speech on the subject last year. the case law of the court of justice of the european union will make it impossible to reconcile their services and professional activity. for accounting, budgetary and above all civic reasons, full professionalization must not be conceivable. the daily relief and crisis relief will no longer be provided as they are today, to the detriment of the french people and the resilience of our society. the french model of civil security is based on volunteerism, which accounts for 80 per cent of the firefighting workforce in france. since any professionalisation is neither desirable nor conceivable, it is therefore essential to adopt a specific directive during this new european mandate. beyond the legal debate, the issue is political and civic, and it concerns other european countries. this is a choice of values and society. a volunteer firefighter today is a volunteer firefighter who is committed to protecting his fellow citizens and his territory. in the context of accelerating and increasing civil security crises, there is more than ever a need to be able to rely on the civic engagement of volunteer firefighters across europe. that is why the id group and the national rally chaired by marine le pen support the proposals of the national firefighters' federation of france.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the series of hearings of european commissioners comes to an end, who in this house can be satisfied with the outcome of the conflict of interest procedure? whether we like it or not, the doubt has settled in, as can be seen from the number of questions from all the political groups that were devoted to ethics and integrity during the hearings. the experience of the last two weeks shows all the shortcomings of the current procedure, which is sorely lacking in resources, time and independence to be sufficiently robust and credible. as european citizens' trust in their institutions is eroding, it is time to put in place the mechanisms that can fully guarantee the integrity of our european leaders. this is why we are proposing a debate on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the european institutions. this moment of exchange, which we are proposing without a resolution at this stage, in order to obtain the widest possible support from our house, must bring us all together. the vote on this debate, which we are calling for by roll call, added as the third item on the agenda, is a unique chance to show citizens that we prefer ethics over money.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. my fellow members of parliament! the transition to a green economy presents different challenges for each member state, as acknowledged by president hoyer. the european development bank should take these specificities into account and shape its financing policy for energy projects accordingly. the changes now being planned by the eib would create difficulties for the cohesion countries. the new (unclear) policy, as we heard, would also phase out fossil fuel projects by the end of 2020. and i think that transition is only possible in a longer transition period. each member state has different possibilities, both because of its geographical location and its traditions, and as a result the energy structure is different. we cannot give up gas, which is a lower-carbon energy source, just as we cannot give up clean nuclear energy. i ask the eib for rationality. please note that the design of the energy mix is a national competence. assist member states in developing the appropriate method and pace of greening.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if you want to stop climate change, you have to invest, and you have to invest a lot. it is estimated that up to 1 000 billion euros are needed annually, and of this, about 300 billion are needed in addition, so not investments that are already planned. and i think it is appropriate to say that the european investment bank should become a green bank, and in doing so play a central role in a sustainable investment strategy for the eu. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i think it is a good one. in all this, the social dimension of the structural change involved must also be taken into account and supported and promoted accordingly. finally, we are calling for a change in the legal basis and structure of the eib to be accompanied by a transformation into a green bank, so that the european parliament can have a substantial say in this investment strategy.
mr president, so what does the exciting idea of turning the eib into a climate bank mean in practice? we need to rapidly increase funding for activities that are paris aligned, such as large—scale home insulation programmes, electrification of services currently provided by fossil fuels and improvement of low—carbon infrastructure, but we also need climate transition loans for projects that can provide evidence that they are committed to decarbonisation. the sustainability transition will be marked by trial and error and learning by doing, so it’s important that the bank relaxes its normal low—risk approach and makes loans for activities where financial returns are lower or may be volatile, but where climate impact is guaranteed. finally, the bank can work to ensure that the new round of european central bank (ecb) asset purchases ensures a massive inflow of money into sustainability sectors and businesses. by issuing green bonds and especially by bundling small and medium-sized enterprise (sme) loans and community projects into these bonds, the eib could facilitate the use of quantitative easing (qe) money to fund small-scale community initiatives in response to the climate crisis.
mr president, we are now becoming more and more aware of our environmental obligations, both as politicians and as citizens. we no longer have to try to convince people with catastrophic or catastrophist excuses, which are not always supported by the scientific community. we must give priority to realism and we must do so urgently. the eib, through its financial support instrument, must therefore promote projects and actions which not only protect the environment but also create wealth, particularly through our industries. it is not the death of industries by standards, or by deadlines for implementation that are unbearable because they are far too ideological, that will solve the problem. so let's give all our european companies time to decarbonize, they are capable of doing it; at the same time, let us limit as much as possible the globalized trade which is seriously polluting the planet.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this debate. in july 2019, through its first proposal, the eib presented a very ambitious project, which was welcomed by all ngos. unfortunately, it is clear that in its second proposal it has backpedalled, probably under pressure from the commission, but also from the gas industries. now these industries can be used as a vehicle for investment to move away from coal, which is ecological nonsense. given the social emergency, the environmental emergency and the state of the democratic debate, it seems to me urgent not to give in to lobbying and industry pressure. that is why i ask you and my colleagues to support the first proposal of the eib and not the second. it also calls for greater consistency in eib investment and financing. we cannot green energy policy on the one hand and not green transport policy on the other and continue to support the construction of, for example, airports. the green new deal needs consistency, and so does the eib.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as my colleague bas eickhout has said, we welcome the european investment bank's desire to become perhaps the first european institution to stop investing in fossil fuels and become the climate bank. however, the decision to be taken on 15 october will not lead us to the climate bank we are calling for, because 15 to 20 per cent of the eib's portfolio still contains investment projects in polluting transport. you've given up on fossil fuels completely in 2020 and you're still funding gas infrastructure. forty percent of your credit lines are still under-served by banks that finance fossil fuels. when will you stop funding the banks that are helping to destroy the climate? and when will we, the member states and the council, the commission, the eib and the members of parliament, stop receiving the fossil fuel lobbyists? when will we ban shell, bp, exxon mobil, chevron or total from our institutions, our politicians or our climate summits? it is time to move on from half measures. democracy, human rights and climate protection are at stake.
president eib. – mr president, i leave this parliament encouraged for the big challenges we have ahead in the next days and weeks because i feel strong support. i didn’t expect from the beginning that i would get support from everybody, but the overall feeling here in this parliament seems to be that we better take climate change issues seriously, and this is exactly what we are going to do. sustainable finance is one of the key issues here because, as i said before, we will never achieve the sustainable development goals nor the climate goals without mobilising private money. this requires – what has just been named – a taxonomy that requires more than just green principles, which we have developed over the last 10 years and we were the leader on that effort. but it is necessary to demonstrate also to investors, who trust us with their private money in order to achieve a green project. you cannot simply tell them, ‘i take a piece of white paper, paint it green and then it’s a green bond’. no, you need to have reliability and accountability for what you’re doing with the money that investors give you and the money that you give us. this is why we put a lot of emphasis on the sustainable finance issue and the activities of the european commission to arrive at taxonomy in this context. i heard several members of the european parliament with great joy and listened to their enthusiasm about the 50% that we are targeting now. a very, very, very ambitious objective – i can tell you – because don’t make the other projects that the eib is financing smaller than they are. it’s clear that we have said paris alignment, so the climate must be in everything we do. we must not undermine our climate objectives by financing 50% green and the rest dirty. no, that’s not the idea. but i wonder what the innovation commissioner would say if our bank comes to a conclusion that says, ‘okay, the talks with mr gates today about malaria research and vaccines and different diseases cannot be continued anymore because it is not demonstratively a green project’. so we also have other issues and i’ll tell you: the european union has huge climate challenges, but a few other challenges as well. let me just take very, very few. number one, we are losing competitiveness day by day because we do not invest enough in innovation, research and technology. therefore, we support wholeheartedly the activities of commissioner moedas to bring the european union into first position when it comes to innovation and productivity growth. secondly, we have only just begun to think development big. if you look at what challenges are ahead in the next decades, when by the end of this century, africa will have four billion citizens from now – a little bit over one and a half billion – and they will all need jobs. so we need to support leapfrog development in africa and we need to think development big in order to produce economic perspectives. and then, of course, the climate issue. the climate issue is well spelled out, but the devil is in the detail as soon as we get to the regions where it’s going to be really, really difficult, and it’s better to get your people in these regions on board on this, and therefore we have to be very attentive there. not by hiding behind the transition needs. some people believe ‘let’s hide behind the transition needs and perpetuate the use of fossil fuels’. that is not the solution. but giving perspectives for jobs and growth in these regions via innovation: this is the right thing. by the way, it is also the reason why i believe we should overcome the dichotomy between innovation and cohesion. you can see clearly all around the european union and beyond the european union that those regions who are very open—minded on innovation are the best when it comes to cohesion policies. so, from that point of view, i’m quite optimistic. there are many questions that have been posed that i cannot respond to right here now spontaneously. i promise we will all come back to this with our colleagues here in brussels, so that from agriculture in ireland to all kinds of other things, we will not shy away from responding to these questions. the risk inclination of investors. that’s a real issue. we have many problems also in the context of climate policies where the risk situation is so difficult that the commercial markets will not service that and, therefore, we are so happy about the cooperation with the european commission and the european parliament and the council – because only with the risk coverage by eu guarantees we can serve it. and you know we are going to come to the close of the juncker plan very soon. and i’ll tell you, in my view, this is the greatest legacy of president juncker when he leaves his office – because that has been a smashing success and we need to celebrate that and learn from it for the financing of our ambitious projects for the future.
mr president, thank you for your speech and for the work of the european investment bank, which is very important for the european project. i now give the floor to commissioner carlos moedas, who i would like to congratulate on his excellent service to the european project in the exercise of his duties as commissioner.
member of the commission. – mr president, dear members, dear president werner hoyer, dear werner, thank you so much. my words are your words, what you just said. i think that this was a very good debate, and from this debate i really draw three conclusions. the first is the sense of urgency. we all have this sense of urgency. we have to act now, and that’s something that we all understand and we all share around this parliament, and i’m very proud of the european project for that matter. the second is the acknowledgment that the eib is one of our best allies. the eib is an ally of the european project, and i remember – i think there’s very few bankers that in their speeches as you do, talk so much about innovation, about science, about the future. because one thing is sure: if we want to solve the problem, we have to do it with science and innovation, and there’s very few people in your domain, and your experience, that understand that. so werner, thank you so much. and finally, i think that to the members on the right, you know, you cannot solve this issue alone. you cannot solve this issue with your country alone; you have to solve together. we have to be together to solve and to tackle climate change. so thank you so much to all of you, and i will transmit the message to my successors, and i’m sure they will deliver on your expectations.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the development of renewable energy represents a key opportunity for the european economy, to create quality employment and to ensure a sustainable future for the new generations. i therefore appreciate that the european investment bank (eib) intends to place decarbonisation of the energy sector and the development of renewable and green sources at the heart of its climate strategy and lending policy, in line with the un sustainable development goals and the paris agreement. it is also good that this strategy, in a balanced and fair manner, provides for measures to support energy conversion such as the energy transition package: in a strategic sector such as energy, innovation and sustainability cannot be separated from the maintenance of energy security and the protection of the social dimension linked to it. finally, i think it is important that the eib pays attention to small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and to the development of small-scale and widespread green energy projects. it is necessary to remove the obstacles that smes still face in achieving their energy efficiency, due to the fragmented nature of investments and limited access to financing instruments in this area. the eib can undoubtedly make a major contribution in this area.
the following is the debate on the council and commission statements on how to avoid conflicts of interest in the eu (2019/2853(rsp)). i would remind you that we are going to continue to test in this debate the new system which allows members to register electronically for both the 'catch the eye' and the 'blue card' procedures. information on how to use this system has been sent to all of you by e-mail and is also available at your place of work. you can submit your requests for assistance by using the buttons on the appropriate functions of your electronic devices. i would point out, however, that it is still possible to use the traditional system in parallel, where members sign on a piece of paper or sign up in person. i therefore ask you to use your electronic card to make the requested registration. those who wish to register for the 'catch the eye' procedure should do so now without waiting for the end of the debate so that we can manage the 'catch the eye' applications.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members of the parliament, thank you for this opportunity to discuss the issue of the prevention of conflicts of interest in the eu. you will understand that we did not have a lot of time to prepare this discussion on an important subject; therefore, i will be short. i ask you to understand that. the council fully recognises the importance of preventing conflicts of interest and the highest ethical standards in the eu. on this subject, the ethical framework in the eu institutions was recently subject to a special report by the court of auditors, published in july this year. as is the case for all special reports from the court of auditors, the council has been carefully examining it and will adopt conclusions on this special report before the end of the year. the presidency takes note of a suggestion for an independent eu ethics body expressed by president—elect von der leyen in her political guidelines. accordingly, the presidency welcomes the commitment of the commissioner—designate for values and transparency, ms jourová, expressed in her answers to the european parliament to engage in a dialogue with other institutions on this matter. at this stage, no proposal has yet been tabled by the commission. consequently, the council is yet to formulate a view. the council will await with interest any proposal in this important area and, in the meantime, listen with attention to your debate, honourable members of the parliament. thank you very much for your attention.
member of the commission. – mr president, minister, honourable members of the european parliament, i’m pleased to have the opportunity to present the position of the current commission on the prevention of conflict of interests in the eu institutions and an independent ethics body in plenary today. let me start by reminding the honourable members that this commission that i’m proud to be part of has constantly striven to preserve and promote the highest standards with regard to ethics and integrity for its members. first, the ethical frameworks for both the members of the commission and the staff that are solid and represent a strong set of ethical values, principles and rules. these include, notably, the prevention and handling of conflict of interests. a new financial regulation entered into force in 2018 and sets out strict rules on conflict of interest and financial matters. amendments to the eu’s staff regulation in 2014 strengthened the rules on conflicts of interest for staff of all eu institutions. this commission completely overhauled the code of conduct for its members in january 2018. the new code, as you know, sets the standard at the top of the class in europe and makes it possible to address all possible situations. these rules are more comprehensive than the rules of most of our member states. that’s the reality, and often stricter than the rules of other eu institutions. they contain, for the first time, a clear definition of conflict of interest and sets out a detailed procedure on how such a situation needs to be addressed. i’d like to stress, in this regard, that the court of auditors of the european union has only recently largely confirmed that the ethical framework of the commission is adequate. second, the commission is convinced of the importance of having a body that advises the commission and its president independently on ethical issues of all kinds, and this is why the commission has already set up an independent ethical body, the independent ethical committee, which is composed of three independent external high-level personalities. a renowned former vice-president of the european parliament, ms dagmar roth-behrendt, a renowned former judge of the european court of justice, mr allan rosas, and a widely recognised former director-general of several commission departments, mr heinz zurek. this committee has delivered, for example, an opinion on the ethical guidelines for commissioners who participate in the european elections. this opinion is public. moreover, the committee is closely involved in the evaluation of the post—term of office activities of the commissioners. so the commission decisions on these activities and the related opinions of the independent ethical committee will be public and, therefore, also be open to public scrutiny. third, i would like to recall that there have been discussions in the past about a joint ethical body for all the institutions. the commission already proposed the creation of an advisory group on standards in public life back in the year 2000. this proposal did not fail because of the commission, but due to concerns of other institutions. lastly, you are aware that the president-elect, ms ursula von der leyen, has called in her political guidelines for an independent ethics body common to all eu institutions. ensuring trust in the european union and its institutions with regard to ethics, transparency and their independence must remain a cornerstone of our actions. i’m looking forward to hearing the views of the honourable members.
for the ppe group. mr president, thank you for the report presented by the commissioner. i would like to say that the conflict of interest of politicians at the local, national and european level is of course very risky, because it reduces citizens' trust in democracy, in politics. in the czech republic, unfortunately, we have a case like this at the highest level. of course, it is very difficult to deal with conflicts of interest in a situation where great political and economic powers are coming together, and i can therefore say from our experience that it is very important that rules are being established at european level that set a common standard. the commissioner mentioned it here. we all want european funds, our common funds, to be used as efficiently and transparently as possible. thanks to the new financial regulation of 2018, this measure has affected our czech prime minister, and we believe that the eu will be consistent in this.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam minister, commissioner, i should like to be quite specific in explaining why we have called you to this debate without much preparation and with a fairly unanimous vote in this house. firstly, because this approach is based on experience of the work carried out jointly by all the groups, on the experience of the committee on legal affairs which had to analyse the declarations of interests and the statements made by the commissioners, and then on a personal conviction, perhaps, which is also shared by my whole group and certainly beyond the political groups. first of all, if i read the juri competence today, i see this. the committee on legal affairs is responsible for checking whether the content of the declaration is accurate we do not know how to do , whether it is complete we do not know how to do , whether conflicts of interest can be assumed we do not have the means to check it. firstly, the fact that members of parliament today do not have the means to do their job, at least as regards the juri committee and the work we are asked to do in analysing the declarations of interests of commissioners. second observation: perhaps an element of personal conviction, we walk backwards. we are the parliamentarians, we legislate, but we have not legislated on the transparency and the degree of transparency that we want for the european institutions - i say the european institutions because they are also the senior officials, who are in contact with lobbies, who make decisions every day with interest groups. and of course we are asked to do the work of an independent administration, that is to say, to evaluate, and we have absolutely no power to do so if the declarations are complete. so we're going backwards. that is why this debate is interesting, mr president, because it must allow us to achieve the mandate to put things right and allow parliamentarians to legislate on transparency and, possibly, an independent administrative authority to do the administrative work.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, in the european parliament, the committee on legal affairs is responsible for identifying potential conflicts of interest of future commissioners. unfortunately, it is not doing its job well. i speak from experience because i am a member. it has just dishonored itself twice, first by vetoing the hungarian candidate, whose only fault was that he had been part of viktor orbán's government, and then by refusing to oppose the candidacy of mrs sylvie goulard, whose financial subordination to an american lobby, the berggruen institute, clearly constitutes a conflict of interest. the legal affairs committee did not even want to question mrs goulard on this. i immediately left the sitting in protest, and i continue my protest today by calling for the creation of an independent authority to examine the conflicts of interest of future commissioners in his place. let's outsource ethics control since we failed to provide it. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the question is "blue cardboard". i wanted to respond to mr lebreton's speech. we are in a state of law, so it is not the rumour that should decide how the commissioners are chosen or not, but the juri committee, with the means we give it. what do you propose, that stays in the rule of law and not rumor?
the answer is "blue cardboard". you obviously did not listen to me. i propose the creation of an independent authority. you should be delighted, it will be a victory for the rule of law, and we need it in this house.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, this debate takes place in a rather special context, since tomorrow will be the second hearing of commissioner-designate sylvie goulard. let us not hide our face. the remaining doubts are about his integrity. this is proof that our initial conflict of interest procedure is not enough to remove the areas of concern. i am the newly elected member of parliament who is surprised to see that the independence review of the commissioners' candidates is ignoring bank accounts or the judicial proceedings against the candidates. i am also surprised that we have no way of verifying this information which we have to take for granted, even when these statements are completely empty. i am also surprised to see that the same standards do not apply to everyone. why did we not ask josep borrell to sell his half million shares in large multinational companies, like bayer, when we asked others to do so? let us learn from this before the citizens' confidence in the european institutions is permanently shaken. we are making concrete proposals which are here in this document and which i would be happy to pass on to you, madam, so that we can take them forward. two practical proposals. let us first work together to create an independent authority in the image of the high authority for the transparency of public life in france. let us give it sufficient time and resources to carry out a genuine conflict of interest check before, during and after the commissioners' term of office. let us also allow this committee to assess cases such as that of sylvie goulard, who was paid more than eur 10 000 a month by an american think tank in addition to her allowances as a member of parliament. and how can we accept that more than a third of the members in this chamber are paid more than eur 1 000 per month in addition to their allowances and are thus accountable to private interests rather than to voters alone? their trust has been betrayed enough. it is up to us to restore it by showing, once and for all, that we prefer ethics to money. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by a blue card (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. that's the whole point. that is not the role of our substantive hearings, which are supposed to be substantive, and i think we can all agree that it is the role of the upstream conflict of interest review, which must be done independently. i am on the legal affairs committee and i have asked that he be asked to sell his shares in bayer, but also in bbva, the bank for example, or in the big gas company. the committee on legal affairs has not done so, and i regret that. this shows the whole issue and the whole problem and the need to review our procedures.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. what is the highest value we have as politicians? it is integrity. it is the citizens' confidence in the institutions of the european union. the confidence that we make decisions here based on our best knowledge and conscience and that we have no conflicts of interest. that is why it is so important that we have the same rules for all the institutions within the european union - for the european parliament, for the commission, but especially for the council. it can't be that institutions are differently transparent, that we have different codes of conduct. we had the big problem in the legal affairs committee - i was also involved - that we had a new rules of procedure which no one had applied before, and there were no clear rules of the game for the procedure we carried out in the legal affairs committee. we cannot then sell this to the public as a clean procedure. that is why we must take the time to improve the procedure and to discuss how we can restore the trust that has perhaps been lost in some places here. the independent ethics body is certainly a good idea, but it is not the only one. we could make the commissioners' statements public earlier, olaf could have a stronger role. we must discuss all this calmly, and we owe it to the europeans to have a clean commission, and we must work for that in the coming years.
mr president, opacity, corruption and impunity are the bermuda triangle in which the european union finds itself. how can we expect the citizens to trust us? thanks to the environmentalists, we have made the appointment of commissioners conditional on their conflict of interest being examined. thanks to the environmentalists, parliamentarians are prohibited from lobbying directly against the activities of the european union. but these two remarkable advances are just rust on a much deeper wound. to treat evil, we must also take it at its root. we need stronger powers for the committee on legal affairs so that it can investigate beyond voluntary declarations of interest. we need a new code of conduct that can establish full transparency on the activities and incomes of commissioners and politicians and new rules on the personalities involved in impeachments. as environmentalists have long called for, we need a high authority of transparency and ethics to put an end to the forbidden love that is slowly killing europe.
madam president, i would like to urge my colleagues not to fall into the american trap. the american trap is the one which has consisted in imposing customs duties and tariffs on products which have nothing to do with aviation. clearly, this is to divide european countries, to lead countries for which agri-food is important to neglect the aviation sector, to lead countries for which the automotive sector is the first to neglect the aviation sector and, somewhere, to divide to weaken this sovereign industry which is the european aviation and, in particular, airbus. i would also like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the impacts on the fabric of smes that form the airbus supply chain. the aircraft manufacturer has the capacity to pass the 10% additional tariffs on to the supply chain, which means that the fabric of smes will be weakened, some of them will be weakened and some of them may be put in serious economic difficulties. i think it is important to draw the attention of my colleagues and the commission to the importance of the aviation supply chain.
madam president, i would like to express my agreement with commissioner cecilia malmström's model of negotiation and management. we do not want a trade war, but a basic agreement on the aviation industry. negotiation is always better than confrontation. protectionism is bad for everyone. i therefore advocate persisting in dialogue and building on the skills acquired and the relationships and networks built up during the negotiation of the atci. i denounce, as a trick of a bad ruler, the threat of dealing with the blow that the boeing 737 max problem has caused for american aviation, without which i believe we would not be in this situation. i am in favour of putting european environmental and social standards on the market, which are the best guarantee for our products in the eyes of consumers. finally, i hope that the plans to help the sectors concerned, such as high-quality basque agri-food production, will have the input of all the public and private actors who can contribute to their design, development and implementation.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you so much for the discussion and for the lively debate. on behalf of my colleague, cecilia malmström, let me recall our position: we really regret the us decision to go ahead with the imposition of the tariffs, but we have to remember that this time is very different from the ‘232’ steel measures and other unilateral actions. the us has really followed all the steps of the wto in this case, and as the member said, it is paramount for the european union to respect and to cherish multilateralism. hopefully, the us announcement that they are willing to find a negotiated solution will be followed by deeds, and, as indicated before, both sides should have an interest in finally closing this long-standing dispute – also in the light of new entrants on the aircraft markets. finally, let me conclude by stressing the words of dolors montserrat: the point here is unity. we have to be united. without unity, we’re not strong – another proof of the importance of the european project. so the key to negotiating a good solution is really to be united. president, if you allow me, i will switch to portuguese just for 30 seconds. é a minha última vez neste plenário. gostava de vos dizer que foi um grande privilégio, um privilégio dos últimos cinco anos, talvez o maior privilégio da minha vida, poder estar aqui e, por isso, quando os meus colegas me pediram se os podia substituir, aceitei na hora, porque adoro este espaço. gostava de agradecer a todos os membros do parlamento, mas gostava também de agradecer àqueles que fazem um trabalho extraordinário que estão ali atrás, os intérpretes, a todos aqueles que estão aqui, os huissiers, o pessoal administrativo, que fazem desta casa algo de mágico.
in writing. – the us has always been an important trading partner, and continues to be so even in these more challenging times. while we may have differences, we must do everything we can to find negotiated solutions with our partner. the wto has made a ruling regarding airbus subsidies, and we respect this. but as we are all well aware, a similar ruling against boeing will very likely be made in the months to come, and i regret that we were not able to come to a mutual agreement to prevent escalating trade tensions through tariffs. if the us decides to go through with these tariffs, the eu must respond back. entering a cycle of tariff after tariff is harmful for both sides, to our producers, to our consumers, and to our overall relations. time is running out, but it is not too late yet for the us and the eu to find an agreement before 18 october and de—escalate.
in writing. i deplore this new escalation in trade tensions between the european union and the united states. despite repeated calls from the eu, the us refuses to reach an amicable solution and targets strategic sectors with the imposition of new customs duties: the aerospace sector remains a jewel of our european industry and the eu is the world's leading exporter of agri-food products. in this context, the european union will have to react firmly. the eu should have the opportunity to do so in a few months' time, when the wto will give its decision in the boeing case, for which the eu is already authorised to impose retaliatory measures. more generally, these retaliatory measures are of no interest to either the eu or the us, as airbus and boeing's foreign competitors, notably china, continue to develop their aviation industry at a rapid pace. finally, we should remind the us that it is using the wto to its advantage here even as it is trying to stop it from functioning by blocking the renewal of judges in the dispute settlement body's appeal mechanism.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, the reality of the day is simple: turkey is invading a state called syria and we are looking at it, we are going to vote on a motion and you know very well that we are not going to do anything. we have sown chaos in this region, which added to the chaos already existing, we are adding to it today the dishonor. the shame of abandoning our allies, who have helped us in the fight against terrorism. we have already experienced this disgrace in afrin, and we will experience it today under exactly the same conditions. madam high representative, we are no longer praising turkey - you said a few minutes ago that it was our ally, and i imagine mr borrell will do the same - but the turks are reliable allies in the spring and become dangerous in the autumn. you know as well as i do that today the turks are the first supporters of the fighters who are in the pocket of idlib, idlib which the united nations report, last july, described as the largest dump of terrorist fighters on the planet. my question is simple: what are we going to do in practice, apart from adopting a resolution? and i would like to ask another question: if a real ethnic cleansing is about to take place in the two christian towns of hassaké and qamichli, what will europe do?
mr president, the exchange of prisoners between ukraine and russia is a source of renewed hope. it seems that mr. putin has finally realized that he is entrenched in the donbass and that china is certainly more of a threat to his country than the european union is. we know what he would have to do to end the hostilities. until that is resolved, the union will have to maintain its economic sanctions, but it will take two to come to their senses. ukraine is the victim but it also has actions to take and mr zelensky has to rely on less wise than him. is it not time, therefore, madam high representative, to remind all ukrainians that we have provided them with more than eur 15 billion in financial assistance in recent years, that we stand by them on the political and diplomatic front and that they must, therefore, help us to help them by standing up to their president?
mr president, i did indeed make a point of order and he is speaking in the middle of this debate. i am concerned about a number of events that took place yesterday during the election of the cariforum delegation office. mrs maxette pirbakas, who is an elected representative of our identity and democracy group, was appointed on 17 july to this cariforum delegation. while she has been a full member of this delegation since july, we have been informed by the administration of our european parliament that she could not stand for election to the bureau because she would no longer be a full member of the cariforum delegation. she is a candidate for first vice-president under this dhondt rule, even if it is not respected, and nothing must be able to prevent her from running. after the somewhat worrying remarks made about a cordon sanitaire which would prevent us from accessing posts, is this reversal, which does not respect a decision taken in plenary, a desire to systematically exclude members of the identity and democracy group, or is it a mistake? if so, i hope it will be repaired soon. it is important that mrs pirbakas, who is one of the few elected representatives of the french overseas departments and therefore of the european overseas departments, should be able to stand as a candidate in this election.
mr president, i also wanted to speak about respect for the d'hondt rule. what happened last week in the foreign affairs committee was quite surprising. the foreign affairs committee has given 13 standing reports, i.e. for the five years of this mandate. these 13 reports are not trivial, since they concern 13 countries which are linked to the european union either by neighbourhood agreements or by a pre-accession process. these 13 reports were allocated to only three groups, i.e. the ecr, gue and id groups were totally excluded, and we are told that these reports do not fit into the calculation of the d'hondt rule. it would still be useful to know when this rule applies and when it does not. again, this is something totally discriminatory because i think that in 13 cases, we could have respected the proportional principle a little bit.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, rest assured that we will be following the discussions at the next european summit very closely. the reason is simple: parliament is impatient. in may 2018, 17 months ago, the commission presented its proposal for the next financial framework. parliament immediately set to work and expressed its position and priorities. since then we have been waiting for the council to make progress and decide on a number of issues. but time is running out and the time has come to move to higher gear in the negotiations. it is also time to involve parliament. the line adopted by parliament is clear and we reaffirm its priorities today with the maintenance of the budget for the common agricultural and cohesion policies, the strengthening of flagship programmes such as erasmus or horizon 2020, new appropriations for new challenges and the establishment of a mechanism linked to the rule of law. the next framework will also have to address climate change and preserve biodiversity. on this issue, president-elect ursula von der leyen's commitment, with the launch of a green deal and the introduction of a carbon tax at borders, among others, is encouraging. however, there is a caveat: these initiatives, which we welcome, must be accompanied by additional budgetary resources. i have already heard the irresponsible attacks from parliament that it always wants to spend more, but let us be realistic: a constant budget, more initiatives, means cuts in other programmes, sometimes a sprinkling of money and therefore less effective public policies. let us not give the eurosceptics any food to eat. i shall conclude with the own resources. the recipe system, as it was conceived in the 1970s, has been distorted over time. today, the predominance of national contributions is fuelling the logic of fair return. in other words, we are maintaining a system in which national approaches are the king, even though we should give priority to european added value. it is urgent to make progress on this matter, which, i would remind you, is essential for parliament. we will not agree to the expenditure framework without new own resources for the union. madam minister, you know the ball is in your court. you know our positions, we await yours, so that we can finally start the discussions in the interests of the europeans.
mr president, parliament is united, parliament is waiting for the council once again, a council that is moving forward at a snail's pace. the president of the council is not even paying attention to the positions of parliament, and is once again showing her disrespect for the citizens of the european union. we want to maintain the cohesion policy, the common agricultural policy, fisheries, traditional policies and at the same time increase and strengthen research, innovation, climate support, support for young people, erasmus+, which the council also says are its priorities. adding up the policies, we have 1.3% of gni. it's not that big a deal. in addition, it is clear that we will only give our consent to the multiannual financial framework if we have a broad agreement on the new own resources, which should bring transparency, which should also bring simplification, which should help to mitigate national transfers. new own resources which also cannot be a burden on the citizens, and here tax harmonization is essential. these are the commission's accounts: a billion euros lost in fraud and tax evasion and avoidance. we can have a budget that is not ambitious, but that meets the expectations of the citizens. the citizens ask for it, the council almost always rejects it, the commission and this commissioner help, parliament will force it.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we are discussing this resolution on the financial framework today, which is more important than ever, judging by the echoes coming from the council. this parliament already adopted a very clear position a year ago on what the next financial framework should look like. a reasoned position based on needs, priorities and political commitments, and quantifying the amount of the european budget - hence the 1.3% - is needed. we also took a very clear position, saying that the european budget cannot depend almost exclusively on contributions from the member states and that therefore a new financing system based on the internal market, fair taxation and the fight against climate change must be established. and in this new resolution we want to put four issues on the table. the first is that this parliament confirms what the previous parliament already approved in 2018. the second is that the fight against the climate emergency needs a greater commitment than we had last year. the third point is that the president-elect, mrs von der layen, and many of the commissioners who have been present at the hearings have committed themselves before this house to launching a number of initiatives which are not yet included in the commission's proposal and which we have therefore asked to be reviewed. and finally - and we have all said this - we have been waiting for the council for a year; we are not going to accept any agreement just because we are running out of time. and yes, that's why we've asked for transitional measures. we know that the treaty covers them, but then in practice it is much more complicated, so let us get to work.
mr president, our choices in the coming decade will determine the climate. europe has a historic responsibility and must have a budget that is up to the challenge. the text presented this morning contains some progress. i particularly welcome the explicit mention of the respect of the paris objectives for the 2021-2027 budget. but we have to go further. how can we ensure that they are translated into concrete action if no quantified objectives are included in the next mff? this is the battle we intend to fight. it is good news that parliament will only approve the mff if the own resources part is revised and strengthened. this is a crucial question if we are to save the climate. in this spirit, we will defend the creation of taxes on financial transactions, on kerosene and on carbon, because the status quo is no longer possible. we need a new deal with the member states. for every two euros collected by these taxes, which the states do not know how to collect, one euro will go into the state coffers and the remaining euro will be paid to the european budget, to support the green investments we need. the budget must once again become a tool for a policy that guarantees human rights and respect for the planet.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when i read the joint motion for a resolution, i quickly understood that it was all a pretext for increasing the budget of the european union. in france, the en marche and the republicans, always so quick to defend rationalisation of spending and tax cuts on the national stage, are here in the european parliament advocating an unprecedented increase in the budget which will lead to an explosion of the french contribution. eur 1 324 billion is the budget you are calling for for the next multiannual financial framework 2021-2027, an increase of 40% compared to the previous mff. in economics, this is called the cliquet effect, i.e. the total inability of a bureaucratic institution like the european union to reduce its budget when it reaches a certain threshold, i.e. not to accept that it wants to go back. the question that can legitimately be asked is this: who will benefit from this new financial boon: our farmers, our entrepreneurs, the smes who, on the other hand, suffer the consequences of unfair competition exacerbated by the proliferation of free trade agreements? the answer to that question is, of course not. i quote your text: these additional resources are necessary to meet new responsibilities, for example in the fields of migration, external action and defence. we shall of course not comment on this text. on the other hand, when it comes to creating new sources of revenue, you are overwhelmed with imagination, for example by abolishing the collection costs charged by the member states on customs duties or by introducing the revenue generated by fines and penalties or the contribution linked to plastics into the budget. the resolution of the identity and democracy group, of which i am a member, is on the contrary pragmatic and contains two proposals. the first is to limit the next mff to 1% of the european union's gnp.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his excellent report. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. it is reasonable because we will have new tasks to face, the area of defence will be facing us. if you have just heard the gentleman, you will realize that they want strife between european states and not friendship and peace. we want friendship and peace. that is why defence policy must be a joint effort, but also why we must be concerned about research, science, innovation, climate change, digitalisation. although i am very proud of bavaria, the sky reaches beyond bavaria, and this means that in this realization that this sky does not stick to bavaria, we have a pan-european sky that even goes beyond it. that means we have to do european research. the research programme horizon europe is one of the best. the council has already reached agreement on the substance of this question. we have also made better progress in the content of the agreements within the council than before the last mff. money, however, is a problem. i'm not the one who keeps saying there's got to be more. but if there are new tasks and more tasks, then there will be no choice but to provide a little bit of financial equipment. i think that parliament's position is very consistent in this respect.
dear friends, to win the climate battle, the european commission tells us that between 175 and 290 billion euros are missing every year. these are the commission's figures. how can we win the climate battle if the eu budget does not increase? and how do we put in place a job shield that will protect the employees of the smallest companies from the next financial crisis, how do we do that if we don't have more resources? it is essential to increase europe's own resources. when he came to power in 1933, roosevelt had the courage to triple the federal budget. in just four years, roosevelt tripled the budget by implementing effective taxation. why not do the same in europe? for 30 years, the average rate of income tax has been halved: it was 45%, today it has fallen to 20% while dividends are exploding. why not take up jacques delors' idea, mario monti's idea, of a real european budget financed by own resources, in particular a federal tax on profits? if we are to win the battle for climate and jobs, parliament must indeed adopt this resolution and give itself the means to have a much more ambitious budget.
member of the commission. – madam president, minister, dear members, i have listened with great attention to your interventions today. they all demonstrate that the huge majority of the european parliament is fully committed to making the next eu long—term budget modern, ambitious and future—proof. you rightly underline in your resolution that now is the time to decide. we cannot afford to lose time and risk any damaging delay in the start of the next generation of programmes. we owe it to our citizens to provide predictability on the way the union will respond to modern challenges, in particular in areas such as digital, climate action, border management and defence. i would like to thank the finnish presidency for its paper for coreper yesterday that is meant to prepare the debate of the october european council on the next multiannual financial framework. while we welcome the fact that the paper has been produced, we are – to be very clear from the start – very disappointed about the main elements of the content. there is an important gap to bridge at this point of the discussions between the institutions. we have to acknowledge this. but we call on the council presidency and the leaders to take full account of the positions expressed by the european parliament. the commission is fully committed to work closely with all institutions and to facilitate dialogue. i look forward to working with the european parliament and its negotiating team and to bringing the mff negotiations to a timely and successful conclusion.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, dear commissioner, thank you for your valuable views, your pertinent questions and your clear observations. many of our common key challenges have been mentioned here today in this debate. i’d like just to list innovations, climate change, investment, sustainable agriculture, cohesion and last, but not least, the rule of law and respect for our common values. it is self-evident that these are our common interests – common interests of our institutions, common interests of our european citizens. they are our common challenges, and they need to be reflected in our common budget. the next mff needs to respond to these common challenges. the mff is not just an accounting exercise. it is an implementation tool and an enabler for our political decisions. but at the same time, we need to be aware of the contributions which need to be made by the member states. these contributions need to be fair, feasible and acceptable for all of the member states. let me reiterate our finnish presidency’s firm commitment to regularly meeting the european parliament’s negotiation team ahead of general affairs council meetings. in addition, the trilogues have already resumed on several sectoral files, and we are very much interested in hearing the parliament’s position on these. i would like to point out that, here today in this very plenary hall, we are debating the mff together; we are exchanging views on the next financial framework. so we will not adopt the new mff without our common efforts to ensure that our budget is fit for the new period. thank you very much for this debate, and our work continues.
in writing. the proposal for a financial framework (mff) for the period 2021-2027 is unacceptable in its current form. the european commission's plan is a double standard and would also significantly reduce regional development and agricultural resources. it is unacceptable for hungary that our regions suffer a 24% loss of resources. the proposed 16.4% cut in direct payments and 26.6% reduction in rural development aid in the common agricultural policy for hungary is completely unacceptable to us. as regards the conditionalities attached to the eu budget, we cannot accept the introduction of any new element, either in relation to the rule of law, migration or the social pillar. the new rule of law mechanism that the commission intends to introduce bypasses the treaty provisions and duplicates existing instruments. we reject the attachment of community resources to subjective, so-called rule of law conditions which can be used as political punishment, the punishment of regions which perform well economically and in terms of job creation on the basis of political accusations. eu development money is not charity. the hungarian regions are entitled to these resources on the basis of objective criteria. no eu institution should be allowed to use development funds as a tool for political pressure. unfortunately, the proposal for the finnish eu presidency does not contain any acceptable improvements for hungary in these areas, and is even less ambitious than the european commission in terms of the budget. it is particularly outrageous that the significantly reduced regional and agricultural resources should be further reduced.
in writing. i support the resolution on the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework, in which the european parliament once again calls on the council to unblock the negotiations on this dossier. the ep has already established its position for more than a year and is awaiting the start of a dialogue with the council. for the first time, at my suggestion, the european parliament has introduced figures for budget allocations for each european policy area. the ep's priorities for the next 7 years are well established and some of them come in romania's aid. the ep, for example, rejects the commission's proposal to reduce funding for cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy and will enter into dialogue with the council with a mandate to maintain current funding for these areas. the committee also calls on the commission to ensure that the new multiannual budget corresponds to the new environmental protection objectives, by allocating funds to ensure a fair transition to a zero-carbon economy, so that there are no disadvantaged areas or regions. the may 2019 elections demonstrated the citizens' attachment to european values and institutions. the ep is obliged to signal to the council that the blocking of the negotiations on the 2021-2027 mff involves the risk that the budget will not be voted on time and that the beneficiaries of eu programmes - that is, european citizens - will not be able to continue their projects.
in writing. 200 million european citizens voted in the 2019 european parliament elections, clearly articulating their expectations of the eu in public debates during the election campaign. it is the duty of all european institutions, but first and foremost it is our responsibility, the ep, to respond to these expectations of greater safety, efficiency, sustainability, jobs and a prosperous future for europe. this responsibility also implies the clear message we are sending to the european council today: the post-2021 mff must be designed to ensure that all european projects and policies, old and new, are carried out. the ep will only give its consent to the post-2021 mff project if it ensures adequate funding of cohesion and regional development policies, and of the common agricultural policy, including pillar 2, rural development. for all this, we need new budgetary resources. we call on the commission to come forward with urgent legislative proposals based on the documents adopted in the ep. we are also concerned about the delay in the development of the mff. we therefore call for the transitional provisions for 2021 to be drawn up as a matter of urgency so that no farmer, no european company and no beneficiary of european funds will encounter difficulties in the transition to the new post-2021 mff.
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner, i’m happy to introduce the report on employment and social policies in the euro area, which was widely supported in the committee on employment and social affairs. coming from estonia, i can be proud that, during our presidency of the council of the european union, our prime minister, jüri ratas, had the privilege of co-signing, with jean—claude juncker, the european pillar of social rights. that was on 17 november 2017. this ambitious document, supported by the european parliament, sets out important principles that we will have to implement now in the member states. i have to thank commissioner thyssen for her hard work on improving social policies across the union. we all know that this is not easy: every time, when it comes to social standards across the union, somebody says ‘no, no no’, and refers to the principle of subsidiarity. at the same time, we all know that the situation is far from ideal. since 2012, in the context of the european semester, the commission has been issuing country-specific recommendations, not only on economics but also with regard to social policies in the euro area. this is an extremely important process but unfortunately – and this is reflected in the report – the rate of implementation of these recommendations is unacceptably low. whereas at least some progress, or what was termed progress, was reported concerning 72% of country-specific recommendations in 2012, the figure decreased to 39%, the lowest rate ever, in 2018. so we are asking the commission to take measures and find a way to convince member states that the social health of the european union is not less important than defence, the single market, or whatever other common policy of the union. we are also asking them to consider extending these recommendations to non-euro states. i was happy to hear the new head of the commission, ursula von der leyen, during her speech here before she was approved by parliament, promising that, during the first 100 days of her term of office, she will come up with new legislative mechanisms to ensure for europeans a fair minimum wage. for those who are sceptical, i have to underline that this proposal will take into account national traditions and legislation, which means that nobody is going to violate the principle of subsidiarity. the thing is that we have to fight so-called ‘working poverty’, and help people who live at the risk of poverty and social exclusion, otherwise we will end up in europe with brain drain and depopulated areas, on the one hand, and more protests and polish plumbers, on the other. during their hearings, several commissioners-designate referred to a bill of social rights as a universal tool to solve the problems of depopulated regions and rural areas, but we also have people with disabilities, we have a gender pay gap, we have minorities facing discrimination and people at risk of poverty, and we have to help them. this is exactly what europeans want, not only from national governments but also from us, the elected representatives in the european union. in the report there is also a call for the commission to create a new unemployment insurance scheme, which was warmly welcomed by trade unions. a funny thing that happened yesterday evening was that i received a letter from the european confederation of trade unions in which they asked me to support my own report. when i answered them that this was kind of funny, they told me ‘no, no, you have to support this and that amendments.’ i really believe we’re standing for the right thing here, and, colleagues, i rely on your support.
member of the commission. – madam president, europe’s economy is in its seventh year of uninterrupted growth and today more people than ever have a job. poverty is declining at a steady pace on the back of good labour market outcomes. europe is also stronger when it comes to our economic governance setting, and in particular the european semester. we have managed to put social and economic policies on an equal footing, most recently by embedding the european pillar of social rights. we are sharing good practices and have developed solid analysis and common understanding in close dialogue with the member states and the involvement of social partners. however, divergences persist across and within countries. while labour shortages increase in some countries, in others unemployment remains high. in—work poverty is still a major challenge, with almost one out of ten workers at risk of poverty. atypical and new forms of work may have an impact on the segmentation of the labour market. in this perspective, a key priority must be to make labour markets more inclusive and to ensure all jobs created are of good quality. furthermore, women remain at a disadvantage on the labour market, despite achieving better educational outcomes than men. closing this gap would liberate a huge untapped potential with a positive impact for the economy and society. ensuring effective work—life balance policies and access to childcare is crucial in this sense. in addition, technological change and digitisation are deeply changing european societies and economies. it is crystal clear that we need to step up investment in education, training and skills in order to properly accompany our people through these changing times, in order to harness productivity—enhancing technologies and also in order to ensure a just transition to a climate—neutral economy. indeed, bringing people to the centre of our policy—making is now more important than ever, because while poverty is finally declining across the board, at the same time we witness an increasing number of europeans expressing a sense of vulnerability. this is triggered by income inequality, labour market precariousness, but also the uneven impact of globalisation and technological change among countries, regions, sectors and people. while investing in skills remains crucial to foster the inclusion of all people in tomorrow’s societies, social protection systems should be adapted to properly empower and protect our people. in this context, i want to thank the rapporteur and the committee on employment and social affairs for this very balanced report. it presents well both the positive trends and the challenges ahead, and i broadly share its goals and conclusions. tackling these challenges, ensuring that we have a social market economy that works well for businesses and citizens, also in changing times, and fostering convergence is indeed the motivation behind the european pillar of social rights. less than two years since its proclamation, the implementation of the pillar has already started. its principles have been embedded in all the stages of the last two semester exercises, and almost half of the country—specific recommendations – 44% of which today address pillar priorities. important legislative measures have been proposed and approved, implementing several principles of the pillar, and eu funding has been re—geared to support implementation of the pillar through an enhanced link between the semester and the programming of the european funds, notably the european social fund. even more importantly, the pillar has contributed to anchor job quality, investment in skills, social fairness and just transitions at the centre of the european agenda. our pillar of social rights is one of the main legacies of the outgoing commission, but the work is far from finished, as we all know. supported by the commitment of the european parliament, the commission, member states and social partners, the pillar is here to stay to act as a compass of our future action in the employment and social fields. moreover, starting from the new cycle, the semester will be refocussed to integrate the united nations’ sustainable development goals in line with the semester’s legal basis. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, further efforts are needed to make our societies more inclusive and to prepare them for future changes. stronger and more inclusive economies and societies would also strengthen the resilience of the euro area and pave the way for the deepening of the economic and monetary union. as you all very well know, implementing the pillar principles on the ground, as well as pursuing the sustainable development goals, is a joint endeavour which will be pursued both at the national and european level. i am sure that the commission will remain at the forefront to promote upward convergence of social and living conditions throughout europe and support people, businesses and regions in these changing times.
the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. europe must be for people who want to work for their future. we know that our work is going to change at a rapid pace, not just because of new technologies and economic developments, but also because of the transition that's required because of climate change. whether you're from spalbeek, split or stockholm: all europeans are faced with this. so we need to prepare well so that everyone in society can participate and contribute. the balanced report by mr toom which we are voting on today contributes to this process. we therefore call on the member states and the european commission to provide better social protection for platform workers, to bring an end quickly to the great injustice of the pay gap between men and women doing the same work, to provide older people with better prospects for new jobs, to provide young people with prospects for affordable housing and to facilitate and ensure that disabled people can flourish in the labour market. we want to invest in new jobs and training so that people can look to the future with confidence. the new commission president has already embraced our idea that we should help people when the economy is in serious trouble. but we still have to get the member states involved. working together, we can tackle longterm unemployment and support vulnerable regions. then people can be sure that europe is working for them too.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mrs tom for this excellent report. i am pleased that the european parliament has voted overwhelmingly in favour of this report on employment and social policies in the euro area, which follows up on the country-specific recommendations published by the european commission last june in the context of the european semester. the general guidelines of this report reflect the new assembly's strong interest in moving towards a more social europe with a focus on investment. i would like to emphasize two points. first of all, the request by the european commission to present a legal instrument so that every worker in the european union can benefit from a fair minimum wage, respecting national traditions, is a major point for me. it was included in ursula von der leyen's political guidelines as a priority for the coming legislature in terms of social convergence. it is also one of the answers, i believe, to the problems of labour shortages faced by most member states. my second point concerns the workers on the platforms and their working conditions. we know that the work done in the european union via online platforms - and this is a good thing - has increased by more than 25% in the last two years and now affects almost 5 million europeans. while several member states are individually putting national measures in place, it is time for the european union to set the course. we must develop coordinated action to ensure the social protection of these workers and to guarantee all their social and labour rights.
madam president, i also voted against this text because, as the previous speaker said, there is no evidence at all. there are insinuations, we're fueling this cold war climate. in the end, all those who are against the prevailing opinion, against, i would say, the constant praise of what the european union is doing, are condemned. i also voted against it because it is very clear that it is directed against two or three countries. i would remind you that russia today is broadcasting in france and that, so far, there has never been any finding of false information. finally, the only misinformation we have had massively in france, in recent years, i remember, was about syria. it was false information conveyed by the state, by the state media: we were given a fake mayor of aleppo to explain to us that aleppo was in this or that situation, only to realize, a few months later, that it had all been totally invented. when it comes to fake news, i don't think we have much to teach.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mass closures of churches, vandalised cemeteries, slaughtered worshippers, violence and acts of terror against christians are on the increase throughout africa and the middle east. the identity and democracy group calls for a statement by the commission and the council on the special situation of christians in algeria.
madam president, the bankruptcy of the world giant thomas cook on 23 september has created a veritable tsunami in the world tourism industry. in france, the fate of 780 employees is hanging on an uncertain takeover offer. everyone is talking, of course, about the weight of this company on the tourist market or the uncertainties related to brexit. but what no one is talking about is that thomas cook's bankruptcy was wanted by hedge funds. yes, pension funds and insurers sold thomas cook's debt problem to hedge funds who insured themselves against a default by that company. but according to economics professor frederic vrins, there is something even more serious. i quote: 'a company could therefore go bankrupt simply because a credit default swap holder takes legal action to scuttle the rescue plan'. the thomas cook case is thus a new international financial scandal. that is why we must face this financial system that has gone completely mad and fight it with determination. once again, once again, hundreds of families will be sacrificed because of these vulture funds whose only reason for being is the lure of profit.
madam president, two weeks ago, a man opened fire in halle, committing an anti-semitic terrorist attack against a synagogue on yom kippur. he streamed his actions live on the internet for 35 minutes. although reported, the images were seen by several thousand people and shared. these events are reminiscent of the christchurch massacre, which targeted muslims. they call for swift and effective action: to create a strong european framework by concluding the trilogues on the removal of terrorist content online. the current legislation, the audiovisual media services directive and the code of conduct signed in 2016 by the major players on the net, is not sufficient. we need to accelerate content removal and reach out to all online platforms and forums. the internet will no longer be used to trivialize extremist causes. we must also acknowledge the ignorance of our history. one in ten young europeans does not know about the holocaust. so let's fight the root of evil in schools, colleges and universities, and make internet users freer, and therefore more responsible.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the attack on the synagogue in halle on 9 october marks yet another return of anti-semitism on our continent, and it has been for several years. more than a firm condemnation of the horror, it is the causes of anti-semitism that must be identified and eradicated. so yes, if it was a neo-nazi criminal who committed the terrorist crime at the synagogue in halle, then for the last 30 years, with a few exceptions, these attacks have been carried out by terrorists of arab-muslim origin, as the advisory committee on human rights pointed out as early as 2004. in france, the names halimi, knoll, hyper cacher, are a reminder of the murderous violence of radical islam. the anti-zionism expressed by many muslim countries and relayed ad nauseam by the far left in europe is the antichamber of anti-semitism. so to tackle the sources of anti-semitism is to organise the urgent closure of all salafist mosques in europe, and it is also to draw diplomatic consequences from the systematic denigration of israel and to firmly condemn its use by the increasingly violent movements of the far left.
madam president, first of all, i would like to express my thoughts to the victims of the halle bombing, murdered by a far-right militant, and my deepest sympathy to their families. in france, we have recently seen an increase in violent speech by the hateful far right. just a few days ago, a member of the national assembly, julien odoul, violently attacked a muslim mother who was accompanying her son on a school outing, simply because she was wearing a veil. the trivialization of these hateful words and acts is also maintained by the programming on a television channel, at a prime time, of a polemicist called eric zemmour, who was nevertheless convicted of inciting racial hatred. so from my seat here, on the far left of this house, i can see those on the far right, on the far right of this house, particularly well. they're right in front of me. there are many of them, of course, but their presence should not be taken for granted. we must not allow their ideas to spread. my dear colleagues, let us resist their will to hate with our will to live together, with our kindness, with our diversity. it is the only way to ensure that attacks like halle's do not happen again.
mr president, the debate on rain and hurricanes tonight shows once again that this house is more used to communication than to real politics. if the epp group has the means to prevent lightning and rain, then let them know quickly or patent this invention without waiting. the peoples of europe in danger are no longer waiting for the european union to come to their rescue, alas. no, the real political question here is: why did the epp group want to put the subject of recent natural disasters on the agenda? why, when in two days' time he will be voting to divert the solidarity fund to help victims of natural disasters, at the request of the european commission? is the epp group not playing a hypocritical game here and buying virginity 48 hours before this immoral diversion? the conclusion is therefore that we must put an end to this distorted debate immediately. in 48 hours, when it comes to voting to save europeans from natural disasters, you will be gone. not any of you. only the identity and democracy group will remain. if you want to save the azores, then save this solidarity fund for natural disasters.
mr president, no, they are not just sitting on the beaches of the costa brava. if you haven't seen them in five months, it's because they're not allowed to sit. who are we talking about? we are talking about our three catalan colleagues, who were democratically elected like all of us here on 26 may, but who have never been able to set foot in this house. what's wrong with them? they are accused of having organised a referendum. they didn't kill anyone, they held a referendum. so, honestly, as a french elected official on the merits of the case, whether or not catalonia is independent is not my problem. my problem, our problem, is the instrumentalization of justice for political ends. if we let this pass today, there is no reason to believe that it will not set a precedent and that tomorrow others will not take the opportunity to declare that this or that member of an opposition party has no right to sit in the european parliament. i'm asking you to respond. once again, we are not here to decide whether or not catalonia should be independent, we are here to defend political freedoms. it is about defending democracy. this is a european problem and the european union's guilty silence cannot continue any longer.
mr president, just as we are coming to the end of five long years of a juncker commission, which has been a disaster for the people in every respect, the new von der leyen commission is already under the sign of continuity. the rejection of sylvie goulard, the french candidate for the post of european commissioner, who is adored by president macron, is a salutary democratic upheaval. her collusion with us lobbyists and the large remuneration paid to her during her term as an mep cast doubt on her independence and the absence of any conflict of interest. the von der leyen team is a caricature of the worst of the european union. after recruiting the socialists and ultra-liberals of the previous term, the president's close bodyguard now seeks to impose german officials everywhere in order to control all the cabinets. the current european union is the antithesis of an alliance that benefits everyone. it shows the face of a vast machine at the service of german interests. it would be wise for the next european council to put the european treaties on the table and give the european nations their essential prerogatives at a time when the peoples are waking up and are thirsting for democracy.
madam president, with each new international crisis, it is clear that europe is distinguished by its impotence. while all european states have unanimously condemned turkey's military invasion of syria, strong action against sultan erdogan was to be expected. we were only able to give simple reprimands. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let us use article 29 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to impose an embargo on all military sales to turkey, impose customs barriers on turkish exports to the european market and put erdogan at the foot of the negotiating wall. yesterday russia did not receive the same leniency, as it was subject to economic sanctions by you and the european union. in the 19th century, the ottoman empire was called the sick man of europe, but today it is we europeans who are sick. we are sick of a masochism that makes us pay billions of euros to a state that threatens us with immigration chaos and that you still consider an official candidate for enlargement. between humiliation and honor, it's time to choose, or history will do it for us.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr juncker, how can we not begin this review without listing the endless list of tax evasion scandals that have emerged in recent years: the paradise papers, the panama papers and, of course, luxleaks, of which you were one of the architects in your own country, luxembourg, which is still not a tax haven in the eyes of the european union. for us, to fight tax evasion with you at the head of the european commission and despite the efforts of some commissioners, who should be commended for this mandate, was a bit like asking monsanto to stop pesticides. your record in social affairs, mr juncker, which you have spoken of a great deal, is still a failure. what happened to the european minimum wage you promised us so much? your record on climate change, mr juncker, is a real denial. you did not make any commitments on this subject five years ago and since then the free trade agreements you boast of today have been started in a hurry. your record, mr juncker, is not that of lives saved, but first of all of the 16 000 deaths in the mediterranean sea, which are a mark of shame on a europe that has been turned into a fortress. your report, mr juncker, is finally a democratic lock-up of europe, still no right of initiative for parliament, which i hope the next commission will bring to an end. your opponent, after all, is a bit of a popular expression, and you yourself have said that there can be no democratic choice against the european treaties. we think the exact opposite. there must be no european treaties without democratic choice. at the end of your mandate, mr juncker, you have finally served the markets and you will not be missed by many of our european peoples and citizens. but as we are committed to social rights, we wish you a great retirement and for that we have a little gift for you. to return to your tax haven, your friends, the multinationals you helped during luxleaks, wish you a happy retirement with this gift.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, minister, tomorrow we are going to vote in this house on a budget of 171 billion euros. it may seem like a lot, but it is only 1% of european wealth, and yet it is a budget which makes it possible to finance the european policies which we have all decided on and which, after the reading by this parliament, will reinforce some of those which we have considered as priorities. and we are going to reinforce them with 3 billion euros, the maximum that this narrow financial framework allows us. and of that 3 billion, almost 2 billion will go to reinforce the fight against climate change, which shows a clear commitment and commitment of this institution to what represents one of the greatest challenges we face. we have strengthened all budget lines that relate to climate change, from supporting infrastructure projects needed to reach a decarbonisation target to boosting research into future-oriented technologies. as i said, our top priority has been to give that impetus to programmes dealing with climate change, but it has obviously not been the only one. and for another year we are asking for the youth guarantee programme to be kept alive for the unemployed young people, which neither the council nor the commission has considered to be worthy of european funds. and we are also continuing to improve the erasmus programme so that more students can benefit from it. we have not forgotten our farmers and cattle farmers, who are victims of a senseless trade war and are the target of tariffs which we will try to alleviate, if necessary, with the european budget. and of course we are also continuing to demand more support for the reception of refugees on european territory, but also for those countries which, despite their delicate situation, give us an example of daily solidarity with new refugees; and also for those who have been refugees for sixty years, such as the palestinians, who need to survive from the united nations agency, unraw, which also needs european funding for this. in short, we are reinforcing all the policies that help to design a modern europe and that have a real impact on the lives of the citizens of the union. but as rapporteur on the other institutions, i want to take this opportunity to highlight the work they do, because all the policies we put in place in the european union are not made possible by the work of the commission, the council and parliament alone. the european construction has in these other institutions key allies so that all policies are planned rigorously, with control and taking into account the opinion of all sectors. it is therefore essential that all the institutions have the necessary human, material and financial resources, because we would be doing the european union a disservice if we argued that cutting its budgets is an example of sound economic management, because nothing could be further from the truth. we must continue to support the committee of the regions, where our towns and regions defend their interests and participate in the drafting of european legislation with a much closer eye. we need an economic and social committee to ensure that the workers' and employers' organizations continue to examine european policies from an economic and social point of view. we need a european court of justice that is agile and effective, because in the end it is the guarantor of the european rule of law, with the task of interpreting union law, ensuring that it is applied and sanctioning any breach. and we must continue to provide the necessary means for the european external action service, which is not only responsible for the european union acting in a much more coherent way, but also has as its objectives the consolidation of peace in the world, the fight against climate change or development and humanitarian aid policies. and i have left the european parliament for the end. this institution represents more than 500 million europeans and is the institution with the greatest responsibility. we are not only a house with legislative and budgetary powers, but we also have the responsibility for monitoring and controlling other institutions, the european budget and the application of union law. and all the work we do from these institutions is not possible under the false slogan of 'doing more with less'. we cannot afford to jeopardize their work by cutting their operating budgets, and i will do my utmost to ensure that this is the case in the forthcoming negotiations with the council. i hope that the council and the commission will work together to achieve this objective and that we will not have the situation we have every year, where we leave it to the last item and there is no room for manoeuvre.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the finnish presidency of the council had just been to the conference of committee chairs, so that both the chairman of the committee on budgets and i were still tied up there. i apologize for that and may now move on to the budget. the 2020 budget: the european parliament will set clear priorities. first, we want to tackle the climate issue aggressively and with clear action. the budget proposal, particularly in the field of science and research, is based on modern research, innovation and new technologies to meet challenges that we are not yet able to meet well. we also want to create new types of jobs, to be competitive in this world and not simply depend on others or to see things develop in ways that we may not want from an environmental, economic or social point of view. secondly, we want to give young people the security and support they need, across the european continent and across the european union. that means supporting those who live in countries where youth unemployment is up to 40%, 50%, and as the european union, signalling that we are not just continuing the yei - strengthening the youth employment initiative - but are setting clear targets. we also want to promote exchanges between young people with erasmus+ and also with the interrail tickets for young people aged 18 because they can learn from each other, benefit from each other and educate each other. but we also want to tackle important issues that affect small businesses, that affect digitisation, that affect cancer research and the research of the most serious diseases. this means that we must not forget the major issues that are being raised publicly at the moment, but also those that are essential for the people of the european union and for the development of our member states. we will continue to focus on security. safety is an important signal for people, as we have just seen again in the last two or three weeks. security cannot be left to the individual - whether he has the money or not to afford security. security must be created by the member states and the european union, in cooperation between the member states and through coordination in the field of crossborder crime. we want to strengthen the common external border security. and what is particularly important to me is that the eoj should be properly equipped. the current planning for the equipment of the eppo is not sufficient in our view and needs to be significantly strengthened. because if the eppo is to be effective in tackling vat fraud, for example, then it must have the means to do so, and laura kövesi should have the means to do so, so that we can finally put an end to the eur 50 to 100 billion of vat evasion or money laundering across borders and at least achieve greater success than we are doing now. another item on the agenda: here you are urging us to exercise caution. i do not know where the council's caution has gone when it cut eur 200 million from amif. we must also tackle the issue of refugees and migrants in such a way that we have sufficient financial resources in this budget, both within the european union and outside it. we are very concerned about development aid. we want to give people opportunities and perspectives, and we want to have the opportunity to provide humanitarian aid where it is needed. now, if we look back at the situation in northern syria, it is imperative that we intervene in a stabilizing and supportive way. the resources you are offering us are not enough. and development aid is not just about humanitarian aid, and it's not just about humanitarian aspects, but it's also about climate and environmental aspects and the aspect that people want to have some perspective in their home countries to survive. this means that there is also a clear focus on the environment and the climate. because people who don't have a chance to grow up in a proper home won't stay there. i would like to ask you, mr president, to start talking to us, to the finnish presidency: it is no good if we drink coffee together and do not actually exchange ideas. i would like to join eider gardiazabal rubial in urging you to talk to us about the content of the report, which we have not been able to record so far. we will not be able to do all this until the last evening of the conciliation procedure, because then there will be far too little time to really go through things in an orderly and thorough manner, as the citizens of our countries expect.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, it’s an honour for me to attend today the european parliament’s debate on the draft budget of the european union for 2020. we have already had an opportunity to exchange views on this important topic, on 18 september when i presented to you the council’s position on the draft budget. on that occasion, i emphasised that we have to establish a budget that brings european added value and delivers tangible results for our citizens. but, at the same time, we need to prioritise the areas of expenditure that are pivotal for reaching our common goals. i am pleased to say that the european parliament and the council share the same priorities for next year’s budget. at the heart of these priorities are growth, employment and innovation, the need to rise to the climate challenge, to tackle the key areas of migration and security, and to help young people invest in their future. where we differ is on what should be considered an appropriate level of funding for these important priorities. it is the art of budgeting to balance priorities. it’s true that citizens highly appreciate the public goods financed by the eu budget. however, we shouldn’t forget that these same citizens are also taxpayers, who want the budgetary authority to be careful with the global level of expenditure. in this context, i note that if the european parliament’s amendments were to be integrated in the final budget for next year this would lead to an increase in the gni contributions of 9.9% in relation to 2019. in its actions, the council is always guided by considerations of prudence and strict budgetary discipline. both from an internal and an international perspective, the times we are living in are challenging and uncertain. we are witnessing a number of climate challenges, disruptions in trade patterns, economic uncertainties, international tensions and technological changes. that is why the council wants the budget for 2020 to be realistic but with sufficient margins to cater for unforeseen needs. let me stress once again, however, that, according to the council’s position, the budget for 2020 represents an increase of eur 1 billion against the 2019 budget. allow me now to make some preliminary remarks on the amendments to the council’s position that parliament intends to vote on tomorrow. in several headings, parliament has proposed significant increases, which are meant to boost a number of programmes and projects. some of these proposals go beyond not only the draft budget but also beyond the ceilings of the multiannual financial framework. we should be careful to avoid over—budgeting. as co-legislators, we have to take into account actual needs and absorption capacities, and take decisions grounded in reality. this year, the overall gap between our respective positions is bigger than in previous years: eur 4.2 billion in commitments and eur 6 billion in payments. nonetheless, i’m convinced that, working together, we will be able to bridge this gap and reach a balanced and reasonable agreement on the budget for 2020.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i should like to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs, mrs hohlmeier and mrs gardiazabal rubial, for the work they have done, both in terms of the quality of their work and the content of their work, and also for the respect they have shown for the quality of their work, as summarized in their report by the various expectations of the groups and committees. the priorities of the council, parliament and the commission are the same. first: growth for jobs and employment and for the eu's competitiveness, strengthening the protection of our climate and environmental policy, promoting young people and managing migration with respect for human dignity. we have differences in the level of equipment in the programmes. the council has also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the immediate release of all political prisoners. i would now like to say that i am very happy to be in this environment and i am ready to have a real discussion with you in the coming weeks on the usefulness of spending more or cutting back on programmes and projects. we see ourselves as a fair broker and service provider for the two budgetary authorities, the council and parliament. the difference is relatively large, at eur 4.2 billion, compared with previous years. it was lower in previous years. this does not necessarily lead to more difficulties in the placement phase, but it may be that in november it will be more difficult for you and for us. it would be even more difficult if the united kingdom went without an agreement. the probability of this happening is not very high. we are prepared for this, but we would only come to parliament and the rapporteurs immediately if it happened - which we all hope not to happen - if there was no orderly withdrawal or extension of membership. i welcome the willingness to compromise and cooperate that has been mentioned, and we will make every effort to reach an agreement as the juncker commission in the period up to mid-november. it is a sign of european action. what might be the most difficult issues and points of contention? in some programmes and measures parliament goes far beyond the commission's proposal. this is understandable in some programmes. we should nevertheless exercise a certain degree of caution, because if we now exhaust the margins completely, there will be no flexibility in the budgetary execution during the course of next year to respond financially to surprising, unforeseeable events. the margins we have proposed can certainly be reduced somewhat, but to exhaust them completely would mean that parliament would have no real capacity for reaction in the budget next year. the council has and i think there are good reasons for this cut funding for programmes such as horizon 2020, the connecting europe facility and cosme. i want to speak to you in the council about whether these three programmes, at a time when we are experiencing a downturn in the european economy, when a number of member states are stagnating, when we are lagging behind the usa and china in terms of innovation, when we should be doing more european research and development together, especially in the digital age, are in need of any cuts at all. the red pen in research, infrastructure and smes small and medium-sized enterprises seems to me to be in the wrong place. we will analyse the proposed increases and then report back if we think that increases are not useful in enforcement, so that they are essentially theoretical and not practical. a sensitive point could be the application of article 15 (3) of the financial regulation. we remember: the commission has already made a proposal in the old parliament during the budgetary discussions, during the conciliation phase, to allow for a modest amount of change in the research budget in order to give effect to some of parliament's requests for more expenditure. the council was surprised then - yes, it was surprised - this time we have already proposed it publicly in may. i am very familiar with the instrument of the transferability of funds from the previous year to the next year - that is, unspent funds from the past for meaningful measures for the future - from many years of national and regional budgetary policy. it is recognised as an instrument in the financial regulation and the legal basis for it was established by the council and parliament a few years ago. i would ask the council to discuss the amount, which would, i believe, make it much more difficult to reach agreement between the two houses this time. the commission is proposing to increase the number of member states that have adopted the directive by a further two or three. we will look into this; we can tell you that the measures to get young people into work are now going smoothly, our administrations have gained enough experience, they are succeeding. we believe, however, that this amount is not sufficient to meet the necessary needs, but is rather a little too high. we shall then prove this in the course of the discussions, on request, in each member state. migration management is another priority: we need to ensure that the commission can continue to finance actions in the member states at the external borders. the funds are therefore needed immediately. every artificial reserve makes us less capable of action. the difficult events of the last few days in turkey and syria in particular show that the eu should be able to act very, very quickly, even with budgetary resources. the commission will also be discussing pre-accession aid for turkey. we all agree that we are very critical of the government policy of ankara and of the work and rhetoric of the president of turkey. and that is why i would like to make you a proposal again: let us discuss only projects - but then also finance them - which are in line with the european order of values, which are in civil society, which are in non-governmental institutions, which are useful for democracy and the rule of law. it would be good to implement the programmes that are in our common sense, as far as they are still possible, with the people of turkey, not with the government, financially next year, no more and no less. this should be a strategic interest of the european union. and again, if we put large amounts of money in reserve, it makes it much more difficult to activate and to realise quickly. i would like to mention again that in the context of the conciliation we must also respond to the letter of amendment to draft 2020 adopted by the commission last week. the commission has decided to increase the appropriations for commitments by eur 16.4 million and to reduce the appropriations for payments by eur 5.4 million. the point is that we now have a current framework for agricultural expenditure, which takes account of market developments, but also of new legal decisions laws in the agricultural sector. secondly, there are some adjustments to recent developments concerning the new innovation fund, parliament's establishment plan, the security of the european external action service and the budgetary needs of eu-lisa. i think that, especially in the current situation, with the likely withdrawal of the united kingdom, in the last weeks of the juncker commission and with a new parliament, it would be a bright sign if we could manage to reach an agreement on a 2020 budget in the legally prescribed time and present it to our citizens in mid-november. this requires a willingness to compromise on all sides, including the commission - which i can offer you - but also the council and parliament. in this sense i look forward to the november discussions, which i would have liked to have given to my colleague mr hahn, but as we now have to sit down, you will have to take a second look with me.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. – mr president, when it comes to international trade, the implementation of trade agreements is key, and that goes in particular for the sustainable development chapter within the trade agreements. without sufficient resources to monitor the commitments, we risk leaving with empty words, and that is absolutely not what we intend as a parliament. when we think about these commitments, it’s about eradication of child labour, freedom of association, fighting climate change, commitments on gender equality and, of course, human rights. sufficient funding is also needed to draft impact assessments on a regular basis. and let’s not forget that civil society is also key in the implementation of this trade and sustainable development (tsd) chapter, and enforcing these domestic advisory groups is also very important. a final point of the committee on international trade (inta). at times when multilateralism and the wto is under very firm attack, we as a union should do everything within our power to strengthen that, and in that sense the wto parliamentary conference is a very useful tool in discussions on shaping global trade policy. therefore, the committee regrets that the amendments for inta, both on the domestic advisory group and on the wto parliamentary conference, were not taken into account. we deeply regret that.
reporting for opinion, committee on budgetary control madam president, commissioner, the budget for the financial year 2020 is the last of the current financial framework, being both a transition and a continuity budget. the main aim is, of course, to continue the programmes under way, but also to prepare a solid framework for those to be implemented from 2021. as regards the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, we suggested a number of amendments relating to financial management, operational expenditure agendas, performance reports, timely absorption of european funds, migration, financial instruments and structural funds, and securing resources for the european public prosecutor's office. i would like to take this opportunity, madam president, if i may have an extra second, to thank commissioner oettinger for the good cooperation he has had recently with regard to the preparation of the multiannual financial framework and the budget for the period 2021-2027, which unfortunately is stagnating and which puts at risk hundreds of thousands of projects in europe, erasmus grants, security programmes. i call on the finnish presidency to speed up the negotiation of this budget which has been tabled since 2 may 2018 to the parliament and the council. thank you very much, madam president, for your time.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. – madam president, the year 2020 is the last year of the current multiannual financial framework, and so we have to make sure that we equip the budget with enough resources in order for the european union to deliver towards all the beneficiaries. there is no worse signal that we can give to the beneficiaries than a european union not capable of paying its bills. we have all seen at the european elections that people come out and vote in large numbers. they want jobs, growth and security. students and researchers expect support, farmers expect support, and cities and villages expect support through cohesion policy. we have, of course, to listen to them. i am speaking here on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ). on behalf of the committee, we expect three things: firstly, enough resources for investments in the eu economy; second, the completion of the capital markets union; and thirdly, completion of the economic and monetary union. that’s why of the utmost importance for us are the resources for the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), the juncker investment plan. minister, i cannot understand why the council is proposing to cut the financing by eur 90 million to this successful project which we, the parliament, are defending. this is why i am telling you, very clearly and openly, that the european parliament will not vote a budget for the eu 2020 with any cuts to the juncker efsi investment plan.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. madam president, minister, commissioner, it has not escaped your attention that the european union committed itself to spending 20% of its budget on climate, years and years ago. we are not keeping this commitment and the budget you are proposing is no exception. we need several billion more to achieve this goal. we hear everywhere that there is a climate emergency, that young people are mobilizing in the streets. the draft budget you are proposing is below the commitment you made years ago. that is why the european parliament is in favour of asking for an extra €2 billion for the climate in this budget, so that we can get as close as possible to the commitment we made. two billion euros for 500 million europeans means four euros per european. when we look at the climate emergency, when we look at the mobilisation of young people, i would be really disappointed if the commission and the council did not listen to this voice, if they did not listen to the voice of parliament, and if we had to fight for the extra €2 billion for the climate, which should be taken for granted in the context we know.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – madam president, as chair of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), i would like to express my support for the compromise package, which includes many of the priorities brought forward by our committee. this is the last budget under the current multiannual financial framework (mmf) and we have to maximise allocations for research, for infrastructure, for digitalisation and for small and medium-sized enterprises in order to set an ambitious framework for the new financial period. i want to thank commissioner oettinger for making the case for us, because it’s absolutely obvious that if we want to succeed in the future we need the research programmes well financed, and we have, at this stage, horizon 2020 and cosme oversubscribed. we have the flexibility instrument to reallocate unused funds on this programme, so we need to make the best of that. last but not least, the connecting europe facility is a very successful programme needed for infrastructure. it goes very well with the investment plan, creating added value from private resources to public funds, so we also need to see the connecting europe facility well financed for the next year.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, the next budget has the ambitious aim of acting as a bridge to the future of the union, providing concrete added value and responding to the demands of citizens, businesses, workers and consumers. parliament called for a qualitative leap forward to achieve this objective and for a solid starting point for the launch of the next generation of priority programmes and policies for the union. among these priorities, commissioner, we cannot forget the extraordinary role played by the common agricultural policy in the process of european integration. we will not therefore accept cuts in the agricultural policy budget, on the contrary, we ask you to support our agricultural and food businesses, which are once again victims of commercial reprisals decided by others, as our rapporteur, mrs eider gardiazabal rubial, has already said. we therefore call for a commitment to finance and strengthen all the measures, such as the promotion of our products on foreign markets, needed to mitigate the impact of the very heavy duties imposed by the united states on our companies in the coming conciliation period.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. mr president, commissioner, as regards the committee on fisheries, we know that we want the necessary measures for the fisheries sector to be sustainable in the next 2020 budget. we know that for a common fisheries policy to be achieved effectively we will have to have a sufficient budget to be able to implement it. we therefore believe that there must be a balance between environmental priorities, the viability of the fisheries sector and the livelihoods of coastal communities. effective fisheries management is only possible if we have concrete, solid and also reliable data. the union's funds must be increased in terms of data collection, scientific research. what's the point? to enable better assessment of fish stocks and to allow a study of the impact of climate change and also pollution on these stocks. the partnership agreements in the field of sustainable fisheries policy and, more generally, the external dimension of fisheries policy need to be taken into account in order to have adequate budgetary provisions for 2020. finally, a note only for the european aquaculture sector whose good performance can be key to reducing the union's dependence on imports of fishery products.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the council will meet in luxembourg at the end of this week and adopt conclusions on the so-called welfare economy. the draft suggests that people and their well-being should be put more at the centre of policy. it was crucial that all policies take account of welfare, that people can reach their full potential and enjoy their fundamental rights. the main objective is to ensure that everyone has access to public services, including education, training and lifelong learning. very good advice! if you accept these conclusions on thursday, you will then be able to demonstrate how serious you are about putting the welfare of the people first: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. clear the way for investment in people and social cohesion! follow the parliament's position: more money for erasmus+, more money for creative europe and more money for the 'europe for citizens' programme.
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. madam president, in the libe committee, the work was particularly effective and relatively consensual. the various political groups and the fictitious rapporteurs have all made efforts to reach a balanced opinion. so we thank you for considering it. i would urge you to follow closely the vote in the libe committee and then in the budg committee in favour of a budget line for rescue operations at sea. europe has a humanitarian responsibility and a moral duty to rescue people in danger, rather than criminalizing ngos which are currently substituting for the european union and the states in this role. this would be the first time that such a budget line has been adopted in plenary. the member states of the european union must take their responsibilities to prevent people from dying in the mediterranean, as we have often said in this house since i was elected last may. i therefore think that this budget should be followed without any problems. this is to avoid that this responsibility falls solely on the states which are the places of arrival of migrants, from a financial and logistical point of view. it is therefore also a measure of justice between the different member states.
the committee on constitutional affairs has adopted a report on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the european parliament and of the council against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. madam president, commissioner oettinger, ladies and gentlemen, thank you günther for your work and for the cooperation we have had over the last ten years. we are pleased with the commission's attempts to increase investment to inform citizens in the 2020 budget, we are not pleased with the council's attempts to cut funding. once again, the council is going backwards and not allowing us to close the gap between us and the citizens, between the european institutions and the citizens. it is essential, for example, to finance the transparency register so that there can be more interinstitutional cooperation, just as it is right to finance all the programmes which help citizens to know better what the european institutions are doing. in conclusion, i think that it should be decided to finance substantially the conference on the future of europe, which cannot be something which concerns the european commission alone, but something which concerns all the community institutions. if we are to be ambitious and give europe a political role in the world, we must make sure that this conference is a real success.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i have a few questions to put to the council in this debate, a council which is cutting eur 1 500 million from the commission's proposal. 413 million is in horizon 2020. my first question is: do you think horizon 2020, a research programme, is not important? you think this program has no absorption capacity? the commission's figures deny any difficulty in absorbing this programme. how is it acceptable to cut the connecting europe facility, cut important funding for integration? how can it also cut into a successful programme like the juncker plan, the efsi? a posture that is not understood. another question for the council: there is €280 million that has not been used, that has not been authorised and that can be used for research. it is flexibility, it is 15.3 and the question is: is the council willing to use this flexibility, to use the possibility that what has not been used may be used in the research? the european union budget has a huge added value. it's small, but it's very important. all citizens should know that only 7% is for operating expenses. 93% of this budget is for investment, an investment which is essential, where all member states benefit from the budget. i am waiting for the council to agree to an agreement. but with this attitude i see that it will be very difficult for parliament to reach an agreement with the council which is always trying to reduce and then says it needs margins. and the last question is, why do you want so many margins? are you predicting some hecatomb, some catastrophe for next year, of unpredictable consequences and of enormous dimensions? these questions remain and i also hope that the answers will be given and that the negotiations can continue. on our side there is always loyalty and good faith.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what is our ambition for europe? if we had a big ambition, we would have a big budget today. when kennedy says, "we choose to go to the moon", he really did. and kennedy is going to increase nasa's budget 15 times, we're going to create 400,000 jobs, and the united states is going to the moon. today, it's not about going to the moon, it's about saving the earth or saving humanity on earth. why are we not more ambitious in our budget? we are talking about the green new deal, in reference to the roosevelt new deal. i'm all right. but roosevelt gave himself the means of his new deal, which created millions of jobs. when roosevelt took office, he tripled the federal budget in four years. then, a few years later, to win the war, he's going to quadruple the u.s. budget. roosevelt is old and paralyzed, but he's going to double the federal budget by funding it with fair taxation and a smart use of the central bank's money. this has not caused any disaster. were kennedy and roosevelt crazy? did kennedy and roosevelt ruin their country? no, of course not. we all remember them as visionary and courageous leaders. what are we, europe, waiting for, my friends? what are we waiting for? building a real budget is not that complicated. i remember what jacques delors said about finding new resources. it is possible to have a more ambitious budget without asking member states to make an effort, without asking citizens to make an effort. when i was a kid, the income tax was 45%! now, because of european tax competition, it has fallen to 20 percent. jacques delors said that a european tax on profits was needed. even with a tax of only 5% on average, and without affecting small businesses, we could have 100 billion more budget to save the climate and to create massive jobs throughout our territories. so, of course, the socialist group will vote for this budget. it is a very good compromise, there is no doubt about it. thank you, monika, thank you, eider, thank you, rasmus, thank you, clotilde, with whom we have negotiated. we are going to vote on this budget, we are going to fight to get the council to accept this increase in appropriations, but i hope that this is the last year that we will vote on such a small budget. the socialist group will do everything possible to find new resources for a more ambitious budget in the service of human dignity and the protection of the planet.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, eur 170.9 billion is the amount of the european budget for 2020 proposed by the two co-rapporteurs, the epp and the socialist group. how do you justify a 3% increase in the european budget compared to 2019, when the inflation rate and the gdp growth rate in the european union do not exceed 2%? why does the european union not apply the same budgetary discipline to itself as it does to its member states and, above all, why do you not anticipate brexit now, which will result in a deficit of 5 billion euros for the european union? these are all questions that will remain unanswered because, in your mind, everything is a pretext for the endless increase in the european budget. the national rally meps will vote against this budgetary inflation. the way in which european money is spent is also highly questionable. as an example, i will mention the aid to turkey for border protection, with 5.6 billion euros already paid, and we can see the result, the instrument for pre-accession assistance to help the countries applying to join the european union, the european external action service, as if the european union had any diplomatic legitimacy, but also an explosion in communication expenditure. finally, i would like to draw the attention of our fellow citizens to a very specific point, namely the forthcoming dublin iv reform, which will give every migrant the opportunity to apply for asylum in the country of his choice. in view of the member states' blockage, the council has proposed transferring to the reserve the eur 400 million initially allocated for this purpose, a transfer to which you opposed in this budget resolution. i will just remind my colleagues that the council is the voice of the national interest and that it would be good to give it its rightful place.
madam president, mr secretary of state, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow parliament will defend a matter of course: the respect of our commitments. while the european union had set itself the objective of allocating 20% of its budget to climate protection between 2014 and 2020, the council, for the last year, is cutting the funding needed to achieve this target. let me raise a contradiction which unfortunately occurs all the time. every year, the states assign europe great responsibilities, which must enable us to combat climate change, develop a knowledge-based economy, strengthen the competitiveness of our companies or help our young people. but every year, the same game, the same acts. the council is refraining from supporting climate-related expenditure, cutting research, reducing aid for access to finance for smes, and striking a blow against the programme to improve youth employment. mr secretary of state, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this has gone on for too long. it is the result of the state's grip on our budget. let us put an end to this, let us no longer expect the member states to finance the union's budget almost entirely on their own, let us finally provide ourselves with new resources!
mr president, in 2008, the commission is presenting the directive against discrimination against religious minorities - in the case of religion and in the case of disability, age or sexual orientation. many groups are discriminated against and, eleven years later - i have been here for ten years - we are still in the debate, after thousands of resolutions in parliament calling on the council to stop blocking this directive. it is a directive which speaks of coexistence; it is a directive which speaks of tolerance; it is a directive which speaks of fundamental rights; it is a directive which speaks of equality. that is the heart of europe; that is the heart of why we are here. that is the dna of this parliament and it is the dna of the commission and the council. and the council is opposed to it because of a misunderstood principle of subsidiarity, because we are talking about equality in education, in social protection, in access to goods and services or in health care. we have adopted a social pillar because europe lacked a social soul, and we have an equality directive blocked in the council; 80 million disabled people are waiting for us to be consistent. if we have adopted the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, how can we have that directive sitting in a drawer for eleven years because some member state thinks it violates the principle of i don't know what? i therefore appeal to the council and the commission: either we go through the qualified majority procedure or the council will reflect and really believe in equality.
mr president, it is important that we have this debate today, in a context of the multiplication of discriminatory acts, particularly homophobic ones, in all our countries. our europe is based on values; we want to protect the most vulnerable in our society and fight against all forms of discrimination. however, women, people with disabilities, lgbti people and ethnic minorities are often the most at risk of discrimination. the commission has put forward a broader proposal in its time, as equal treatment was covered only in the fields of employment and labour. in 2009, parliament did its part. i would like to mention in particular his concern to widen the scope of the text in order to combat effectively multiple discrimination or discrimination by association, because many people are exposed to the risk of double discrimination. the problem is that the text has since then, as you know, been blocked in the council. it is important that this directive be unblocked because we have to talk about concrete and effective rights. the text deals with access to social protection, education, goods and services, such as housing, for example. i hope that the signal sent by our parliament was heard today.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam minister, unfortunately your opening remarks are not necessarily acceptable. it is three years since the european parliament gave its position, in july 2017, i think. in the meantime, we have had luxleaks and the panama papers, which have indeed made this a central issue in european political life. this represents approximately 30 to 50 billion a priori of tax optimisation per year. on this subject, however, since the debate is no longer on the substance today, we need to give the commission a warning, help us to put this proposal on the commission's agenda and to have a real position, for the time being, of the council. the commission has submitted its proposal for a directive, parliament has given its position, it is time to move on. for a group, including a pro-european group like mine, it is not possible to say that we are pro-european and at the same time to say today that we are powerless on a subject on which we are taking part in the decision-making process. madam minister, i hope that your closing remarks will be more engaging than your opening remarks.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, there is a key question: how much tax do google, amazon, lvmh or total pay? and if they contribute a fair share today, who can tell? no one is! in any case, not the european citizens, because even after countless tax evasion scandals, companies still enjoy the greatest opacity. finally, to get the answer, which is quite simple, we have this proposal for tax transparency: to oblige companies to publish key information on their actual activities and the payment of their taxes so that tax fraud can finally be detected. that's what makes the difference with the beps proposal, is to make this information public to get the pressure of citizens and ngos on our side. frankly, i have just been elected and what a strange feeling it is for me to find myself defending this measure of tax transparency after having defended it in the associative field for years and after its adoption, more than two years ago! and two years is a long time, time is missing, and it's money lost in our coffers. this essential measure of tax transparency already exists for banks, and they have not collapsed. so, ma'am, how long are we gonna wait? how long will the council wait before it puts the publication of this country-by-country information on the agenda, unblocking the negotiations and shedding light on the tax schemes of multinational companies for which we all, european citizens, are paying the price?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is one of the great mysteries for me and for many citizens why the majority of member states let some of their tax revenues be taken away from some tax havens in europe. the scandalous thing is that the governments of the eu member states could have put a stop to this tax dumping for years. but you're not doing anything effective in that area. and that is not the fair competition, that is not the tax justice that is found in the election programmes of the christian democrats, the social democrats, the liberals and us greens. a proposal for transparency in country-by-country tax reporting has been on the table for three years now. in 2016, the commission proposed this, in 2017 our parliament decided this by a large majority and with small changes, of course. since then, this has been the responsibility of the council, which represents the eu member states. and it is governments that are standing in the way of fair competition and tax justice. and on the side of the blockers were, unfortunately, not only some tax havens, but also the federal republic of germany. the socialist group has recently made it very clear that it is now in favour of this measure. what that's worth will be seen this friday. then the member states will meet, and then we will see if the grand coalition changes its position now so that we finally get a majority for this important measure of tax justice. i'm counting on it. we need to take measures against tax dumping.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the debate shows something we have already heard from jean-claude juncker today. we know what needs to be done, but the obstacles lie in the national, tactical, partisan games of the member states, which are aimed against europe and do not want to profit from europe and thus sell out the future. it's unfair, it's irresponsible and it's unfair. and that's what this is about. the point is that we are expanding public country-specific reporting, because it's a way to shine a spotlight on the tax cheaters. it's about transparency, and it's about tax fairness. and we've proven that it works. we have introduced what is called country-specific reporting in the banking sector and we have already discovered in the first year that eur 628 million of profits were generated in states where there is not a single employee. and why don't we automatically extend this successful model to large corporations, to the international balance sheets? what are we trying to hide? we must ensure that the european union is more just, more responsible, more dynamic, less blocked and more capable of acting, because that is what the citizens want.
mr president, the audiovisual content platform that a member was talking about earlier was releasing a new film this weekend called the laundromat with meryl streep and antonio banderas, by the way. a formidable satire on the evasion and avoidance tactics to directly avoid paying taxes with transfer pricing and all sorts of tricks. but it is also an example of the cynicism of those who produce such films and do not pay taxes in their respective countries. there are different views in this house on the appropriate level of taxation in economies, but we all agree that taxes must be paid and that there can be no legal or illegal arguments to avoid them. it has also been said that the financial institutions are already publishing information on all these issues without any major problems and it is hard to understand why, three years after the adoption of the directive by this parliament, the council has been unable to make any progress in the negotiations. and it is also sad - as a colleague said earlier - that parliament has been waiting for this debate to be organised before at least having a tentative meeting to start the negotiations. and i simply want to encourage the finnish minister to start those negotiations now with a certain outcome.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there will be no justice, no europe, without fiscal justice. yes, tax evasion is a poison, a social poison because up to 1 000 billion euros of tax and social revenue is taken from the european union every year. €1 000 billion is the total health expenditure of the 28 member states. it's poison to the environment because how dare you say there's not enough money for the climate emergency, when tax havens are full of it? it is also a poison for our security because the opacity of tax havens allows the financing of terrorism and organised crime. it is indecent to look the other way and pretend to fight these organizations, their attacks on the people without attacking their main resource. that's enough! it is indeed time for the member states to finally adopt this directive, the first decisive step against impunity and towards justice.
madam president, a year ago, i tweeted: "and at the end of the story, the only one who will protect the kurds of syria from the risk of extermination by the turkish army will be the legal government of syria under president assad". that position may surprise you, but it was so predictable! indeed, how could anyone doubt that the kurds would be abandoned by those who shouted that they would remain loyal to them, encouraging their autonomist ambitions? how could anyone doubt the will of president trump, who had announced long in advance that before the election, there would be no more american soldiers? how could we forget that the turkish reaction would inevitably be what it was? i am not here to defend turkey, i condemn very strongly its incursion into syrian territory, but what state would accept to have terrorist groups on its borders who regularly make excursions to its territory? so what is the solution today for peace in syria? to find international law, to respect syrian sovereignty over the entire territory and to encourage the government's policy of reconciliation? how can we justify, for example, the sanctions still imposed by the european union on medical equipment? what's the conclusion to this story? we have had a security and humanitarian vision, whereas we should have had, as other states have had, a strategic vision and a vision that takes account of the specificities of the region. the result is that we are spectators, commentators, regretters, and voters of motions, but in this text we have never been actors. perhaps it is time for the european union to take account of the realities and finally have a strategic vision of its international policy.
madam president, what is happening today in north-east syria is not just another episode in the tragedy that has been afflicting syria for eight years. this tragedy is ours too. the turkish offensive targeted kurdish troops who were fighting isis alongside us. the militias, supported by ankara, have brutally executed political leaders. i think of hevrin khalaf who shared and promoted our values. the camps, where european terrorists were held, were left unguarded. the international law we built has been flouted. the atlantic alliance, which is supposed to be the foundation of our security, has been caught off guard and has appeared paralysed. but more importantly, where is the european union? we cannot be happy that russia's role in the middle east is being strengthened. we cannot be satisfied that our american ally has considered us a negligible quantity in its choices. if we do not act, history will be made without us and perhaps even against us. we have never needed strategic autonomy more. we have never needed so much a european defence that allows us to protect ourselves, to be respected and to uphold our values when our alliances are failing.
madam president, just a week ago, after meeting with turkish authorities, the european commissioner for migration stated that turkey remains a key partner in managing migration and reaffirmed the validity of the 'shame agreement' between the european union and turkey. these statements were made while the turkish army was invading rojava. it seems that the european union is not only determined to look the other way, but also to legitimize erdogan in his war against the kurdish people, as long as he continues to act as the border policeman of the european union, of 'fortress europe'. from here, we want to show our internationalist support and solidarity with rojava; we condemn the turkish invasion and its ethnic cleansing objectives on the kurdish people. the european union cannot be an accomplice to this massacre. the agreements with turkey must be frozen. we call for the use of all the popular and institutional pressure necessary to end the war.
the commission has already done so. if i'm asked about my job, i'll tell them i just got out of prison and i'm still trying to figure it out. i am too embarrassed to have anything to do with the eu at a time like this, when the maniac from the bosporus is waging unpunished aggressive wars, civilians are being killed by german weapons and the behaviour of the eu, nato and the federal government can only be interpreted as aid. the turkish dictator, it is said, must be spoken to in a language he understands. and that is why i say: if erdoğan threatens with three million refugees, then we threaten with three million turks from kreuzberg twinker-smiley. and if that's not enough, we'll send three million german pensioners after them. both measures are also likely to ease the housing market, relieve the german pension fund and give the last electorate, the cdu, a sensitive electoral defeat.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: but let me also emphasize: it's not just about geopolitics, it's about our security. thousands of europeans have travelled to syria in recent years to join is. many have died, but a significant number are still in that region. many of these terrorists and genocidal perpetrators will be able to take advantage of the chaos to get free and return. we must be prepared for that. a lot has happened in the last few years. we have better controls at the external borders. we have better criminal prosecution of outsiders and we have better information sharing in the eu. but i'm missing a little bit of urgency here. i therefore ask the european commission, agencies such as europol and the member states to redouble their efforts in this area, because security must be our absolute priority. and finally, this. our ally in turkey says: europe, it is your problem. however, we are not dealing with it as a european problem here, but each country is dealing with it individually. it seems clear to me: we have to take on these terrorists together. thank you, sir.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's victorious smiles of mr erdogan and mr putin are the mirrors of all our cowardice and syria has become the name of all our renunciations. first we abandoned the syrian revolutionaries in the name of fighting jihadist terrorism, and then we abandon our best allies in this fight against daesh, that is, the kurdish forces. so today, we're all going to blame donald trump, and we're going to be right. but what about us? what about sanctions? i know! a thousand times yes! but when? it's already dark in syria and we're still talking to each other. then we must learn from our helplessness. let's face it: nato is no longer meaningful. not because we have no more enemies, but because we have no more reliable allies. so let us make our mandate the emergence of a credible european defence. from the union to adulthood. victor hugo wrote: "those who live are those who struggle; those whose firm purpose fills the soul and the forehead". our friends are dying and we are not yet alive.
madam president, let us see the facts and say them. the possible creation of a syrian kurdistan on the anatolian border can be seen by ankara as an intolerable threat to turkey's territorial integrity. if we did not understand this, the entry of turkish troops into syria would remain totally inexplicable, but is this military adventure still acceptable? it is not, mr erdogan, because it only increases the pain and resentment of the kurds, the kurds of syria and turkey. it is not, mr. erdogan, because what are you going to do now? to stay in syria and become an occupying power, to leave and leave behind hatred and a desire for revenge? it is not, mr erdogan, because you are reinvigorating daesh, weakening the atlantic alliance and fuelling the middle east's gunpowder-store power rivalries. there is no wisdom or reason in this, mr. erdogan.
madam president, i hear from all our benches a unanimous condemnation of the violent aggression that turkey has been carrying out on the territory of syria for several days. of course, we must condemn this war launched by mr erdogan's government and the atrocities that accompany it, but let us not be satisfied with these few hours of debate, let us attack the root of the evil. if turkey, since 2011, has been destabilising the middle east in support of the arab spring, it is because the majority of this house has long ago succumbed to the blackmail of the turkish president and accepted everything. in our countries, you, the epp members in particular, say that turkey will never join europe, here in strasbourg. you vote continuously for the billions in membership credits, you pay ever more european taxpayers' money so that mr erdogan does not open up a border that our free trade agreements are unable to protect. it is your cowardice and hypocrisy that push the turkish president to go further and further. it is your double game that excludes europe from the solution of this conflict and puts president putin in control of the game. it's time to put an end to this piece of crap. the accession process must be stopped once and for all and the flow of billions to turkey finally drained.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is widespread indignation here, but indignation is not enough! what is at stake is peace in the middle east, of course, but also our own security, because mr erdogan is now becoming the first ally of daesh, and the attack he is carrying out will have consequences on european soil. yet we remain powerless to act. let us be clear: this silence is the result of europe's impotence, because our countries have not been able to give themselves the means to achieve strategic autonomy in defence, because our europe has built a market, instead of sharing the principles of our common civilization, and, of course, because we are unable to determine our migration policy freely. the blackmail of migration that mr erdogan is imposing on us is an opportunity to experience in practice europe's inability to control its external borders, which makes us incapable of contributing to the balance of the world. we must urgently give ourselves the means to act so that we are never again trapped bystanders in this guilty impotence, and from now on we must break with cowardice by putting all our strength on the line. in order to force turkey to negotiate, we must urgently suspend the funds paid to that country by the european union, which have no place in an accession programme.
madam president, this new war in northern syria, initiated by turkey, is a violation of international law. it is an inhumane decision that displaces 300,000 people, including 70,000 children, with 120 civilians already killed. this is not a fight against terrorists, but against peoples, including the kurdish people, the vast majority of whom aspire to one thing only: to live in peace and freedom. we are much more powerful when we turn to each other, rather than turning against each other. mr. erdogan should think about that sentence. the 30 km security zone that he has imposed, manu militari, does not provide any lasting solution. how many syrians from turkey will actually want to move there voluntarily? and i remind you that international law forbids sending refugees back across the border. eight years after the war began, the ordeal of the syrian refugees and peoples, including the kurdish people, is, alas, still not over.
mr president, i would like to raise a point of order. in our assembly, it is customary to have a bell ring a few minutes before the vote. many colleagues were not present yesterday when the votes were taken because there were no bells in all the european parliament buildings. it seems, and the rumour is going, that it was to avoid interrupting president juncker's speech. i would like you to deny this and perhaps review the conditions under which our colleagues could not vote yesterday.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when faced with the climate emergency, i always have this image in mind: we are like the sailor who sees the storm coming and does not lower his sail. months and years pass, forecasts get worse, but we still do not reduce sailing to the necessary scale and especially to the necessary speed. but there are many positive things to be said. awareness is widespread. many countries have set themselves the goal of carbon neutrality by 2050. the president of the future commission has made this her priority. many solutions can be implemented immediately, such as reducing the speed of ships (2 knots slower, 20% less emissions) or better energy management of public buildings, which are often overheated and over-air conditioned. the curves of science are unambiguous. greenhouse gas emissions must fall dramatically from today if global warming is to be kept to 1.5 degrees by the end of the century. there's not a month to lose and every half a degree counts. in conclusion, and this was reminded to us in new york for our delegation from the european parliament, the european union must be united and must take the lead in facing this challenge.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all in agreement on the declaration of an ecological emergency, but we are less so when it comes to the measures to be taken and their effectiveness. as regards the financial aspect of this green deal, how can we envisage a fund of eur 1 000 billion, when we are unable to finance a green fund of 10 times less? how can we achieve this without more and more europe and without taxing more and more, under the pretext of ecology? the ecological priority is, on the one hand, to identify the exponential increase in world population as a major cause of the ecological drama and, on the other hand, to re-establish borders, to de-globalise trade and human flows and to relocate our production. only through local and national cooperation, with concrete objectives and the right diagnostics, can we meet the ecological challenges.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, while it is good to see that the whole of europe's political class is now taking an interest in ecology, there is no denying the opportunistic nature of the political advertising which has been made for years, with an undeniable aftertaste of greenwashing. the awareness of the climate and ecological emergency has unfortunately allowed a moral guarantee to be given to political coups d'état and to a hostage-taking of european nations. the response has been fiscal, to better puncture the people, and moral, to better impose mass immigration and the so-called climate refugees. without constantly blaming european citizens, especially the most modest ones, it is the orientations of their national and european leaders that must be condemned and changed today. it is the entire political, ideological and economic software that needs to be reformed to respond to this obvious health, environmental and moral emergency. all this, of course, requires that all free trade agreements be called into question and that the sovereignty of all the peoples of europe be restored. this is the prerequisite for any serious debate. the rest is just literature.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for a long time now, the speeches on the climate emergency have been one after the other and one after the other. my dear colleagues, when it comes to voting for another cap, for trade agreements or for environmentally friendly energy projects, there is, strangely enough, no urgency. the gap between speech and action is unbearable today. france, for example, has signed and ratified all the fine agreements, such as the paris agreement, and yet it has not acted in accordance with the objectives it has set itself. and it was to put an end to this hypocrisy that i filed a complaint against the french state for climate inaction. the latest ipcc report confirms the concerns. grande-synthe, the city where i was mayor for many years, will be underwater by 2100 and 400,000 residents will have to be relocated. so let's replace "at the same time" with "now is the time": it's time to do and it's time to act. yes, let's declare a state of climate emergency. let's not make this another statement of intent. so let's adopt a text that makes it an intangible golden rule. if there is a golden rule for the budget, there must also be a golden rule for the climate. rather than a debate, the climate emergency must become an imperative for action, and this imperative will also be social because ecology is social.
madam president, cities are responsible for almost 70% of global greenhouse gas emissions. they therefore have a strategic role to play in the fight against global warming. commissioner, i am adamant that we cannot talk about the climate emergency without talking about cities. the point is very simple: too often cities, and among them, metropolitan areas, are forgotten in the debate, and this is no exception. i see it every day, as the elected representative of paris. the metropolises are suffocating and the city dwellers are suffering from pollution, congestion, overcrowding and lack of green space. they are a real focus of the problems that are causing global warming. they are also the first victims. this is evidenced by the tenfold increase in heatwaves and the severe deterioration in the health of city dwellers. if cities are part of the problem, they are also part of the solution, thanks to their many innovative and effective initiatives. so, commissioner, let us put cities at the heart of the green deal if we want it to succeed.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for organising this debate. yes, indeed there is an urgency to act and there is an urgency to put in place a green new deal. the green new deal is not green finance. it is an illusion to think that what drove us into a wall in 2008 will save us from anything today, let alone from climate change. a green new deal is a social project which, through a massive investment plan in the thermal renovation of buildings in low-tech, not high-tech, green infrastructure, renewable energy, can allow us to both save ourselves from climate change, create 10 million jobs, eradicate environmental poverty and finally create a european industrial policy. so yes, it's going to be difficult because you have to anticipate everything at the employment level because we've all been swamped in mass consumption, but the real risk is not being ambitious enough at this point. for the 50 to 100 million energy insecure people on this continent, for those who are already losing their jobs today, for climate refugees, let us rise to the occasion, let us be ambitious in this parliament.
answer the question by raising the blue card. mr. speaker, i'd love to answer your question, but you're still recording me to use another analogy with british humor. i think what you're showing is that not only is monty python continuing, but that it's continuing, and your question is more or less the answer to what you want to hear.
madam president, mr president of the court of auditors, thank you for your important work in controlling the expenditure of our budget of the european union. as you point out in your report, this budget represents only 1% of the gross national income of the member states of the union, and more than 80% of its resources are made up of contributions from the member states, in a logic which is purely redistributive and which is also difficult to understand for our fellow citizens and which, as we have seen quite recently, also in this house, feeds easy populism. in the present political situation, many of us want more than ever for the european union to have, as soon as possible, a budget that is up to its ambitions and that is fed by the european union's own resources, without additional taxation for households and individuals. finally, we want the european union to be able to develop its own projects of continental interest, and for that it must live up to the expectations of the citizens expressed at the time of the elections. and in this renewed framework, which we are calling for, your valuable work, mr president, would only make more sense in helping to re-establish trust between the european institutions and the citizens.
madam president, the resolution under discussion actually proposes to increase the migratory pressure on the member states of the european union in order to welcome migrants better and thus save them from drowning in the mediterranean. the text calls for all eu ports to be opened and for the work of ngos to be further encouraged. you propose to extend the vacuum pumps that cause the influx of millions of migrants, who often end up in the hands of so-called ngos, accomplices of smugglers, as the french minister of the interior himself admits. blinded by a globalist ideology, you are in fact, under the cover of generous ideas, amplifying an unprecedented migration crisis that europe will not be able to endure in the long run. if you want to save lives, and we want to save lives, it is exactly the opposite that should be done: to re-establish real borders at the borders of the union and our nations; to hunt down the smugglers and their accomplices, who send thousands of unfortunates to their deaths; to screen the real asylum seekers and to strengthen immigration regulations; and to encourage all initiatives and all aid in the countries of origin, to avoid these dramatic migrations.
madam president, madam minister, i will be brief. i'm for the enlargement. i am in favour of these two countries being allowed back into the european union. but how can we add two seats to the council today when our own institutional arrangements are totally blocked? i believe in this house, but i also believe that the european institutions are not eternal and must be protected. at some point, we must ask ourselves whether european policies and our decisions in the council are effective before we ask ourselves whether we should continue to enlarge. so when you are pro-european and i am a member of a pro-european group and i fully take this position, i think you can ask yourself how to reform the council and the decision-making procedures before asking yourself how to add two more chairs to the table. that is the position which i believe is a pragmatic one and which must also preserve this institution. we must think about europe in 10 years, in 30 years. i believe in this europe and i do not want the people of europe to become eurosceptic because of our inefficiency in european policies.
mr president, we are discussing today the possibility of albania joining the european union in the long term. but why would we want to integrate a country which is already, in fact, if not in law, a member of the european union? yes, the albanians are already in france and are taking advantage of the european market. the illegal and mafia organizations are already moving freely and are returning to the country the money accumulated through fraudulent trafficking of all kinds in our country. to practice the "laissez-faire, laissez-passer" with albania would only reinforce an already anarchic situation that the french authorities are now overwhelmed with. moreover, at a time when all the peoples of europe are expressing their desire to see their identity and their way of life protected, why should they be offered membership by a country with distant cultural values and under the direct influence of erdogan's turkey? the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the last few years. the european construction is dying because you refuse to set limits to it - limits to the power of banks and finance, limits to the borders of our countries, but also, and above all, limits to this endless and incoherent enlargement which paralyses us, at a time when other large continental groups are prospering in globalisation. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was elected in france to defend the interests of the french people. therefore, i am concerned with the welfare and interests of my people first, whereas you, indeed, seem to put the interests of others before the interests of ours. it so happens that the people of europe today have expressed themselves massively in the ballot box in the last european elections. and today the peoples of europe are seeking to protect their identity, their sovereignty, their democracy. but this endless enlargement is competition imposed on all european countries, and it is always a race for the lesser.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, iraq is a wounded country, wounded by sectarian hatred, but above all by the american operation of 2003. a country wounded by the abuses of the so-called islamic state, which ravaged the nineveh plain, the provinces of al-anbar or salah ad-din. a country that is being ravaged by repeated violations of its sovereignty by the united states and turkey. there are 5,200 american troops stationed in iraq. the 1,000 men that donald trump pulled out of syria have joined them. at the brussels summit in june 2018, nato committed to carrying out so-called iraqi power-building missions. the demonstrations that shook the country in october, when the country is hosting the pilgrimage of arbain, which brings together nearly 20 million shiites, are of course reprehensible. the iraqi government is caught between its regional alliances, the religious leaders who are asking the government to meet the demands of the protesters, and the preservation of the different components of iraqi society. we are right to speak of the repression of the protests in the country, which we condemn, but we intervened in 2003 without thinking about the future, without thinking about the youth deprived of a future, because their country was destroyed. sixteen years after the western intervention, the west is a destroyed country, and we bear a great deal of responsibility for it.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, the un general assembly declaration on universal health coverage recognises the major impact of environmental conditions on human health. air pollution is responsible for 400 000 premature deaths a year in europe and many cancers. contamination of food and water with toxic agents can lead to reproductive disorders. global warming is fuelling the proliferation of mosquito-borne infections. these outbreaks are now coming to europe: two cases of indigenous zika virus have been detected in my country, france, today. the fight against climate change is therefore an integral part of universal health coverage. the european parliament and the european commission are well aware of this reality and of the leadership role that the european union must play, as you have said, madam president, and they are making the green new deal a top priority. the paris agreement also recalls that the right to health is a fundamental human right. the main objective of the green new deal must ultimately remain human health, and more generally global health, which is the virtuous circle linking human health, animal health and environmental health. in our fight against global warming, we must prioritize educating citizens to avoid generating new health inequalities that prey on the most vulnerable. finally, the inextricable link between environment and health should lead us to evaluate environmental policies using criteria of healthy life expectancy. this will be the best indicator of the effectiveness of the green new deal.
member of the commission. – mr president, we are well aware that lgbti people in uganda have for many years faced discrimination and violence, including hate crimes. the latest personal comments expressed by a ugandan state minister regarding the possibility of presenting a new anti-homosexuality law to the ugandan parliament, with the possibility of imposing the death penalty against homosexuals, is a sad example of this harsh reality. the prompt official reactions from the ugandan government and the office of the president – also transmitted through diplomatic channels to the eu delegation and member states’ ambassadors – have since then confirmed, without hesitation, that such a law is not in preparation. therefore, we should consider this comment as highly concerning but not reflective of the official policy of the government of uganda. at the same time, it is clear that such a public statement from a cabinet minister of the ugandan government could spark regrettable reactions and further discrimination, hostility or violence against lgbti people in uganda. the european union encourages states to take all necessary steps – in particular, legislative or administrative measures, to ensure that sexual orientation, gender identity or sexual characteristics may not under any circumstances be the basis for criminal penalties – in particular executions, which the eu strongly opposes in any circumstances. discrimination against lgbti persons undermines the most basic human rights enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights. i can assure you that all our services, and particularly our eu delegation in kampala, are closely following the situation and will convey our messages, including this parliament’s declaration, at the appropriate levels.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 24 october 2019.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on egypt (2019/2880 (rsp)). before we start the debate, i would like to inform you that to ask for a 'catch-the-eye' or to ask a question with a blue card, you can use both the usual registration method and the new electronic registration system. i would therefore ask you to carry your voting card with you at all times. if you wish to register for the 'catch-the-eye' process, please start now without waiting for the end of the conversation.
author. mr president, once again we are talking about egypt. and why is that? for the brutal repression of social movements. while al-sisi was meeting with world leaders at the united nations, thousands of people were detained. some missing, some tortured. the european union is looking the other way as member states sell military equipment which is being used to suppress the egyptian popular movement. it is not a question of the european union protecting human rights in egypt. we are not even asking for that much anymore, we are just saying that the european union cannot continue to whitewash a dictatorship like that of egypt. and that is why we demand an end to the commission's budget support and that its assistance be limited to supporting civil society only; a suspension of the discussions on a trade agreement with egypt until human rights are respected; a real and effective arms embargo; and an end to cooperation on migration policies. in short, ladies and gentlemen, we demand that the commission take action and not cooperate with a dictatorship so that our words will not remain wet paper, so that we will not have to speak about egypt again in the plenary. action must be taken and human rights must be respected.
author. – mr president, commissioner, colleagues, recent events in egypt have shown how little space for freedom of expression and peaceful assembly is left in the country. we witness the disproportionate use of force against protesters, unlawful behaviour against human rights defenders and restrictions on the activities of civil society organisations. what worries me most is that egypt’s leadership is increasingly using the fight against terrorism as an internal policy instrument to stop public criticism and to silence its political opponents. dialogue between the country’s leadership and society is possible only if the former meets citizens’ expectations and embarks on reforms in the different sectors so needed in egypt. from the eu side, we must increase our attention along with financial support for egypt’s human rights defenders and civil society organisations.
author. mr. president, since september 20th, as we have said, anti-government demonstrations have been taking place all over egypt, in every city. egyptian authorities have arbitrarily arrested more than 4,000 people. among them, it is said, are journalists, lawyers, human rights defenders who find themselves imprisoned, burdened with serious charges, including acts of terrorism. those arrested have no access to their lawyers, nor are they allowed to see their families. some are tortured and denied access to health care. these arrests are part of a wider crackdown in egypt, where the democratic rights of citizens are violated, including the right to protest and the right to freedom of expression. the european parliament, in its resolution, urges the egyptian authorities to release the human rights activists. i will mention a few to put faces: ramy shaath; alaa abdel fattah, asmaa daabes, israa abdel fattah. i am not sure that this is the case. these and thousands of others are in prison today. we condemn the actions of the egyptian authorities and call on egypt to ensure the democratic transition in that country. we call on the union to completely review its relationship with egypt, as long as improvements in human rights are not granted. this is achieved by reorientating the commission's budgets towards strengthening civil society. but this also means that the european union and the member states must stop granting export licences for weapons which are now being used against civilians.
author. mr president, i am very pleased to have contributed to the drafting of this resolution, which calls for egypt to open up, and open up to the world. the criticism that is being voiced against the egyptian authorities is not a crushing criticism, but it is a criticism that touches on specific points that are wrong in egypt. yes, we have done a lot of things as the european union, and we cannot say that all the aid has gone into the hands of some terrorists or some groups that suppress human rights there. with european union money, hospitals are being built, the social system is being strengthened, and we are really taking care of the most needy. on the other hand, we need an open dialogue with the egyptian government about human rights violations. we cannot ignore egypt's failure to comply with its international obligations, including the right to a fair trial or the right to adequate legal protection for those who are vulnerable groups. human rights abuses are systematic in egypt. we saw this in the demonstrations, where many people disappeared without egypt answering where these people are. and we will ask egypt for open answers to our questions. we must also mention some of our european union citizens who have disappeared in egypt, and to date we have not received an explanation from the egyptian authorities as to where these people are. egypt really needs to change its policy towards those who criticize it. yes, let's support society, let's support civil society, and let's be tough on the things that they say we can be, like human rights and freedom of speech. i think that as the european union we still have huge gaps.
the european parliament is the epp group's head. the uachtaráin, we were already under a boat. in particular, i would remind my own father of the case of ibrahim halawa and the report we had in parliament about him. and we would do anything to support our laws. bshin led him to a prison in egypt. i'm sure the foreigners would have had no trial. actually, it was a good time. but after the report was published, the authorities in egypt were right to take it, and now it's free to go to our country and not to interfere with our lives in egypt. therefore, it is an unfortunate situation that today, especially in the last few weeks - 4300 people have been arrested and brought to trial. the first suspect was arrested in august of that year and the second was sent to prison. caithfimid an brú céanna a chur ar mhuintir in héigipte éisteacht linn agus triail a thabhairt dóibh siúd nach iad a ligint saor. caithfimid was a bridge between the egyptian and the muslim worlds, and was the first bridge to be built in egypt. we've gone to egypt under the banner of the terrorists of the saghas and we've helped them fight against them. at the same time, they should be concerned about human rights and should be aware of their rights. in particular, the christian community in egypt - the epp - must have the right to take action against christians in egypt, and if they do so, they can continue to do so.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i would first like to pay tribute to the extraordinary courage of human rights defenders and to think of the 60 000 political prisoners held in egypt. this simple figure is a dizzying reminder of the urgency of action. i hear that the commission has another urgency in terms of figures. it would be looking at disbursing tens and tens of millions of euros in budgetary aid to egypt before the end of the year. this would be an act of direct assistance to the egyptian government, granted without conditions. it is hardly possible to extrapolate this act as direct aid to the french government, since it is now proved that france is selling arms and military equipment to egypt, in clear violation of the council conclusions. mrs. mogherini, your guilty silence makes you an accomplice. the union's obvious inconsistencies make it an unheard-of actor on the international stage. yet, we have the means to meet it. you can reserve financial aid for civil society, you can decide on targeted sanctions and, most importantly, you must enforce the arms embargo.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, are we serious parliamentarians? we voted this morning on a resolution on the bankruptcy of thomas cook and another on the behaviour of turkey, which directly concern the action of the european union. i would like to take a step back and express my surprise at many of the resolutions on which we are debating or voting. have we solved all our problems so well that we can now care about the problems of others? is the european union doing so well that we, the european parliamentarians, can spend so much time lecturing the rest of the world? and by doing so, are we so sure that we are not backing away from the causes we claim to defend? because by giving ourselves the right to interfere in the internal affairs of sovereign countries, we often contribute to increasing tensions, and this is even more serious when it comes to the member states of the european union. we have to be very careful about the way we treat the people of the countries of central and eastern europe. parliamentary work is about speaking out in the name of those who elected us and for them. it is about acting on reality to serve the good and the justice in our countries. everything happens today as if, no longer able to act on our own destiny, we spend our time commenting on the destiny of others, as if we become chatterers as we become powerless. i feel that sometimes i have joined a fictitious court, rather than a real parliament.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, turkey's aggression in northern syria is a flagrant violation of international and humanitarian law and a violation of syrian sovereignty. it is incomprehensible that turkey has not been immediately ordered to stop attacking the kurds, our allies in the fight against daesh. we now risk the return of daesh in force and new waves of migration, including the threat from turkey. this clearly shows how important it is to protect our internal and external borders. the european union was able to hit russia with sanctions during the ukrainian crisis. so how do you explain the fact that turkey could consider invading northern syria without any reaction from us? we must act now, including by stopping all payments to that country. all funding to turkey related to the pre-accession process and the eu-turkey action plan on migration should be suspended. finally, it is crucial to launch a multilaterally organized peace process that includes the syrian government. it's the only way to move forward and solve this crisis.
madam president, on 9 october the turkish army was invading northeastern syria. this deadly offensive has hit kurdish forces who fought daesh. abuses have been committed against civilians and the chaos generated by turkey has allowed many jihadist prisoners to escape. this action has been condemned by the member states and their citizens. europe could have imposed strong economic sanctions on turkey, but it did not. after this attack, and at a time when ankara is blackmailing europe with migration, brussels could have put a definitive end to the accession process of turkey, which is not european in terms of values, culture or geography, but it has not done so. the minimum was that europe stop paying billions of euros to turkey. our amendment calling for this to be stopped was rejected by 545 members, ranging from the right wing to the socialists and the elected representatives of en marche. these members of parliament are making europe an accomplice of turkey.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution on turkey's military operations in north-east syria is a good one because it condemns the turkish aggression, because it calls for its cessation and for the withdrawal of all turkish troops from rojava. it is also a good thing because it recalls that the sovereignty and territorial integrity of syria must be respected, as must the rights of all the ethnic and religious components of the country. for these reasons, i support this resolution, even though i think it should have gone further. it should have condemned more strongly the murder of havrin khalaf and, above all, on this un day, it should have called for the deployment of an international peacekeeping force and the establishment of a no-fly zone to protect the kurds and guarantee their right to internal self-determination within the framework of the syrian state. the kurds are our allies, let's not forget them!
madam president, i voted for this resolution, of course, because i come from the part of europe which was admitted to the european union only 15 years ago. that is why our countries have no moral right to prevent anyone from joining the european union if they wish to do so. we have always supported further enlargement of the european union. on the other hand, i have to say that we should express some understanding for some of the exhaustion of enlargement in some of our neighbours or some of the so-called old member states. we often complain that we are not well understood or that our central european, eastern european experience is not well reflected in the west. it is unfortunately true, i am reminded here of the witch-hunts that are taking place in hungary or poland. so as we ask for better understanding ourselves, we should also try to show it to our neighbors. maybe if we start to understand each other better, we can clear up a lot of misunderstandings.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the appointment of eba executive director farkas as afme chief executive, by paul tang and jonás fernández, on behalf of the s&d group, and sven giegold (o-000031/2019 - b9-0054/2019) (2019/2888(rsp)). before i open the debate, i would like to inform you that, in order to request catch-the-eye and blue cards, it will be possible to use both the standard registration and the new system allowing members to register electronically. therefore, i invite you to always bring your voting cards. should you wish to register for catch-the-eye, i invite you to do so starting from now, without waiting for the end of the debate.
author. – madam president, thank you also for explaining the catch-the-eye procedure. i appreciate it. recently, it was announced that mr adam farkas, executive director of the european banking authority (eba), will become the ceo of the association for financial markets in europe (afme). it’s remarkable, right? it’s astonishing. it’s flabbergasting that the supervisor of that sector becomes the main lobbyist for that same sector. the eba is responsible for supervising the eu’s banking sector and for setting technical standards implementing key financial regulations. this makes the eba of fundamental importance in supervising the financial sector. it also makes it a constant lobbying target for the industry. especially afme, with its technical expertise and focus on implementing measures drafted by the eba, has permanent interaction with the european banking authority. you can just imagine my surprise when i learned that the eba’s executive director will become afme’s ceo. farkas’ move gives the banking lobby privileged insight into the eba’s decision—making and private access to high—level staff. as such, banks will be able to excessively influence key pieces of legislation. what is worse, this move may give eu staff the wrong idea that if you are friendly towards the sector that you are meant to regulate then you will be awarded a well—paying job. in other words, this opens the door for very perverse incentives. the eu rules need to prevent this and want to prevent this. article 16 of the eu staff regulations states that eu officials are prohibited from lobbying staff of their former institutions for a period of one year. as ceo of afme, maintaining contact with the eba is the headline of one’s job description. is it realistic to expect farkas to sit in afme’s tower, avoiding contact with his organisation’s main interlocutor? the staff regulations also allow the blocking of professional moves if that leads to a conflict with the legitimate interests of the institution. is good supervision of the banking sector no longer a legitimate interest of the european banking authority? because that’s what’s severely undermined by farkas’ move. furthermore, if this case of revolving doors doesn’t lead to a conflict of interest sufficiently severe to block it, if farkas is allowed to join afme, any eu official will be allowed to join any organisation. in effect, it renders article 16 meaningless. yesterday, we launched a petition with 58 ngos against this case of revolving doors. many people are disappointed, frustrated, or even outright angry. on behalf of the citizens of europe, i therefore ask you: do you deem farkas’ move to be in line with the europeans institutions high ethical standards? do you agree with mr farkas remaining in his position until the end of january? will you exert pressure on the eba to change its position and block mr farkas’ professional move? and what will you do to put our ethical standards into practice and prevent further cases of revolving doors from undermining citizens’ trust in our institutions?
member of the commission. – madam president, the european banking authority (eba) is bound by the staff regulations, which contain a comprehensive ethical framework for officials of european institutions and agencies. this framework includes post-employment restrictions, which were strengthened by the 2014 staff regulations reform. the eba board of supervisors is the decision-making body responsible for deciding on and enforcing post-employment restrictions. it decided on the requirements to be imposed on mr farkas for him to join the association for financial markets in europe (afme). the european commission representative does not vote in the board of supervisors. however, the commission is a board member and is thereby entitled to contribute to discussions at board level. in this context, the commission pleaded for the strictest possible approach towards mr farkas’ departure, taking into consideration the staff regulations. the decision taken by the eba board of supervisors includes restrictions on mr farkas both while in service at the eba and after leaving the eba. with regard to restrictions while in service at the eba, the decision taken by the eba board of supervisors includes measures to cover the notice period to which he is entitled under the conditions of employment of other servants. these measures include immediate cessation of any activities related to the preparation of eba regulatory or supervisory policies, attendance at board meetings, external representation of eba and access to information outside the operations and accounting department. the restrictions also include three months’ ‘gardening leave’ in which he ceases to exercise his role as appointing authority under the staff regulations and authorising officer under the financial regulation. he may not be on the eba premises except upon the request of the chairperson and he ceases to have access to eba systems. with regard to restrictions after leaving the service, the eba board of supervisors has ruled that mr farkas may not engage in lobbying or advocacy vis-à-vis the eba nor have professional contact with eba staff for a period of 24 months. he may not contribute to the work of the association for financial markets in europe on any topics treated by him in his last three years of service at the eba for a period of 18 months. therefore, restrictions are in place to prevent conflicts of interest during the notice period until the effective departure of mr farkas, as well as after his leaving the eba. it is the responsibility of the eba to enforce these restrictions.
the s&d group is calling for the commission to be given the opportunity to present a report on the implementation of the single act. we see from all the polls that european citizens have less trust in democratic institutions and that this less trust is being used by populisms and nationalisms to undermine not only the european project but also the fundamental principles of liberal democracy. and i have to say that the news of the departure of the executive director of the european banking authority to one of the main european financial lobbies contributes to that perception of the lack of independence of public institutions, to that perception that public servants, civil servants and politicians, in the minds of some, do not serve the true purposes that have brought us here. and i think this is a good opportunity to reflect on the system of control we have. it is really pointless for the commission to defend a system in which incumbents - people who are working with those colleagues who are going to leave that institution to work elsewhere - are the most appropriate to assess whether or not there is a conflict of interest. i'm not going to discuss the application of the regulation. what i do want to argue is that this regulation makes no sense and that we need to have an independent institution, an independent european institution that assesses, on a case-by-case basis, these kinds of situations, because it will be impossible for people who work with those who want to move out of public institutions into lobbies to be able to have an independent judgment. and so i think this debate is important to open up that debate of how we review the rules.
for the greens/efa group madam president, as my colleague has just said, the collusion between private and public interests cannot continue. the mixing of genders and the use of the word 'slippery' is rightly undermining the confidence of citizens in the european institutions. in france, it is a national sport. mr macron worked at the rothschild bank before becoming minister, then president, the prime minister was a lobbyist for the nuclear group areva, but we are told that all this is normal and has nothing to do with gifts to the richest, nor with the strange fascination with the financial abyss that nuclear represents today. europe is not the last to be tricked by a former president of the european commission, mr barroso, who was extorted by goldman sachs. today we are faced with another case of mind-boggling slippery slope where a senior official, currently in charge of supervising the banks and limiting the risks of a new financial crisis, will become, in a few weeks, the director of the main financial lobby, whose essential role - if it needs to be recalled - is to curb as much as possible any new banking regulation. the new ceo of the european banking authority, ádám farkas, will become the director general of the association for financial markets in europe (afme), one of the leading lobbying groups in the financial sector, from february 2020. some conditions have been imposed - and you have just mentioned them - by the european banking authority, such as a ban on lobbying against staff of his former institution for 24 months or, even more unlikely, a ban on advising or working on matters directly related to his previous work for 18 months. but who really believes it? and more importantly, who can verify it? and even if he does not lobby, he is in possession of valuable and confidential documents and information that he will now be able to use on behalf of private interests. this is an outrageous situation and should not be allowed to continue. that is why the rules on slippers need to change. they must be stricter to preserve the integrity of our institutions and to strengthen the confidence of citizens. they should leave no room for suspicion of conflict of interest and collusion. for example, much longer transition periods between two activities with potential conflicts of interest need to be established. i would add that these rules must be common to all the institutions and agencies of the european union to avoid conditions being set on a case-by-case basis and depending on the agency concerned. finally, an independent european ethics authority should be set up. this authority would be responsible for supervising the proper application of these common rules. but in the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, we can already take action at the level of our institution to preserve its integrity as much as possible in the face of these scandalous practices. that is why i propose that you, as parliament has already done for the monsanto lobbyists, refuse mr farkas access to the european parliament. this would be a strong signal to affirm our willingness to fight against conflicts of interest. the time for small arrangements and exchanges of good practices between big bosses and senior civil servants must now come to an end.
mr president, i would appreciate your attention. i asked you this afternoon, through your office, to ensure that our house would observe a moment of silence for the victims of four years ago... (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. more than 40 years ago, poland initiated the convention on the rights of the child and presented its first version to the international forum. although the convention is the most widely ratified human rights instrument in the world, its provisions are repeatedly violated. the most important right of the child is the right to life, and only when this is guaranteed can we take care of fundamental rights such as the right to safety, to education, civil and social rights. this right to life is guaranteed by article 6, which states that a child, because of his physical or mental immaturity, requires special care and protection, and in particular legal protection both before and after birth. in this context, ladies and gentlemen, i ask you to reflect: is the issue of the right to life of the child being addressed at all in the european parliament? unfortunately, the term reproductive rights promotes abortion, which is a violation of the right to life of the child and is contrary to the provisions of the convention, which you praise so much today.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, all children are vulnerable and on the thirtieth anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child, i would like to think of the most vulnerable of the vulnerable: intersex children who undergo genital mutilation, whose parents should receive informed information; young girls who suffer particular violence because of their gender; unaccompanied minors, abandoned on the streets or parked in refugee camps; the children locked in detention centers, who no longer look at their notebooks but look at airplanes. the aim of the project is to provide a framework for the development of the european social model, and to provide a framework for the development of the european social model. victor hugo said that a child you teach is an adult you win. so, ladies and gentlemen, although we are few in number in this parliament this afternoon, and i regret it, i ask you to think of these children and to think of all the children whose rights are being violated.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the un convention on the rights of the child is considered to be the most widely ratified human rights treaty in history and has helped to improve the lives of children by inspiring laws and policies. however, the convention has not yet been fully implemented. children and adolescents in different contexts around the world suffer serious violations of their rights, for example through sexual and labour exploitation, or are involved in armed conflicts and migration flows, and are forced to not attend or drop out of school, become victims of violence, abuse, discrimination on the grounds of age and gender. the situation is worse for those belonging to particularly vulnerable social groups, such as refugees and the disabled, and new threats are also coming from the web. the european union is also experiencing intolerable situations, with millions of children living in low-income families, where living conditions are unacceptable. one in four european children is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. the european union is called upon to act with one voice in countering this reality. significant investment is needed to establish a child guarantee system, which would enable every child in need to access basic social services such as health care, adequate food, decent housing and free education. investing in children, inside and outside europe, is investing in the future of the world. no one should be left behind and the fight against child poverty must become a battle of civilisation for the affirmation of the fundamental rights of every child.
mr president, in the treaty of accession to the european union, article 3, we committed ourselves to protect and promote the rights of the child. if we know some facts, for example, that many rights are still being violated around the world today, according to unicef, if it is true that 262 million children and young people are still out of school today, if it is true that 650 million girls and women are married before the age of 18, if it is true that it is estimated that by 2040, one in four children will live in areas with extremely limited water resources, then we have no choice but to take this issue seriously. so, not just talk, but do something. on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child, we have a unique opportunity to put children's rights, the convention and its importance for global development and coexistence high on the international agenda, but also on the european agenda. as commissioner jourova has said, my task will be, among other things, to look after the rights of the child in the european commission, and in particular this convention and the child guarantee for children. it is this parliament that has initiated this idea and we will perfect it in the commission together with our colleagues, but we also have a long-term strategy for children and i hope we will work intensively on it and finally turn these words into action and implement everything we have adopted so far, but also this existing united nations convention, which is very important, and in this way provide our children not only with a happy childhood, but also with a happy future. and since the conference on the future of europe is also one of the themes, there is really a lot to do.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the un convention on the rights of the child, which will be celebrating its 30th anniversary in a few days' time, contains precise legal obligations for the signatory countries to promote, protect and respect the rights of children, but it is still not fully implemented. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of children against the dangers of ionizing radiation. not only in the poorest countries, not only at the doorstep of europe, but on the european continent itself, almost 25 million children are at risk of poverty or social exclusion and 30 000 migrant children have disappeared once they have reached european territory. a strong union must first of all take care of the most vulnerable, and in our society these are precisely the children. more needs to be done at european level to make the convention a reality. implementing the 'child guarantee', part of the union's social pillar, is essential to eradicate child poverty and marginalization, which deprive children of care and educational and cultural opportunities. we must think about the creation of a european centre for the protection of children to coordinate the fight against the most serious transnational crimes of which they are victims, and i believe that the time has come to establish a european union special representative for the rights of the child in order to ensure that in all policies of the union and the member states, as enshrined in article 24 of the charter of nice, the best interests of the child are always considered to be paramount.
madam president, madam commissioner, madam minister, today i would like to draw your attention in particular to the exposure of children to climate change, a major aspect to be taken into account in the protection of children's rights. according to unicef, 99% of climate change-related deaths occur in developing countries, and children account for 80% of these deaths. according to unicef, the destabilisation of our climate could cause an additional 250,000 child deaths by 2100. this is intolerable. children everywhere are the most affected by pollution, because their bodies are the most vulnerable. this is why europe must put the child at the heart of its environmental strategies. we must take action against climate change and guarantee children, all children, a right to essential resources: clean air, clean water, sufficient, balanced and unpolluted food. we need to make children the first agents of change, by listening to them and acknowledging their voices, by including them in decisions. finally, we need to invest heavily in education, a key factor in the fight against climate change, and adopt new practices.
madam president, this anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child is an opportunity for us to take stock of the situation. in europe, 250,000 children are reported missing. in france, for the year 2017, out of 49,000 disappearances, 1 328 were considered worrisome. trafficking in children is a cruel reality for the european union. between 2014 and 2016, more than 10 000 migrant children disappeared after being registered with a european administration. in belgium, 618 migrant children went missing in 2017. in greece, 40% of the population in migrant centres are children. this is no accident: the opening of the borders and the inability of the european administration to control the flows of migrants has caused a real catastrophe. many miners find themselves totally isolated in europe. these children are exposed to the worst networks: pedophile networks, organ trafficking, crime and burglary networks that are widespread in the suburbs of île-de-france, where i come from. as a mayor and as a member of parliament, this date is important: it calls on us not to forget that the ideology of mass uprooting promoted by the european union and the united nations is directly responsible... (the president withdrew from the floor)
mr president, next wednesday our parliament will be hosting a high-level conference to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child. it is undeniable that in thirty years progress has been made in many areas: access to health, education, legal protection. yet, despite this progress, more than 1.5 million children worldwide are held in prison, in deplorable conditions, deprived of education, exposed to abuse and cut off from contact with the outside world. however, all studies agree that no form of detention is in the best interest of the child. thousands of children are still on migration routes which, in the worst cases, end in death, in the desert, at sea, victims of trafficking. but they often also end up in prison, again without any guarantee of protection. even the court of justice of the european union considers this to be inhuman and degrading treatment. in europe too, 19% of children are at risk of poverty and deprived of basic rights. the right to protection of the child is therefore a moral obligation which is binding on everyone, above all other considerations.
mr president, one in four children under 18 is still at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the european union. this statement alone is enough to conclude that the union and our member states are not respecting the international convention on the rights of the child. the right to food, health, education, housing, all rights guaranteed and yet violated by poverty and its effects. the physical and psychological suffering of poverty is as much a thorn in the side of equal opportunities. we must understand that by mortgaging the future of the poorest, we are abusing our democracies. discrimination is even more pronounced when vulnerable people, such as roma or migrants, are mentioned. the trauma of exile is compounded by the precariousness or exclusion of children. recently in france, samira, a ten-year-old ivorian girl who lost her mother on the crossing, escaped a forced return to italy under the pretext of respecting dublin. i expect the commission to present an ambitious plan for the effective respect of the rights of all children... (the president withdrew the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are celebrating the 30th anniversary of the international convention on the rights of the child, but i have absolutely no heart for celebrations. yesterday morning, a group of parents of students from rennes wrote to me: "mariam, our children's classmate, mariam, woken up by the police at 6am, mariam driven to the airport instead of taking the road to school, mariam put on a plane, mariam expelled and withdrawn from school. other yesterday morning, at exactly 10:10 a.m., samira, ten years old, should have been on the plane and expelled. in france, we mobilized hundreds of thousands of citizens and we got his deportation annulled. hundreds of thousands of citizens to make the authorities give up on a child. in france and europe, thousands of mariam and samira are thus expelled from school. so, ladies and gentlemen, instead of celebrating the 30th anniversary of the convention with empty phrases and complacency, let us defend its founding principle, the best interests of the child, of every child.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, we cannot allow europe to be invaded by cheap steel produced without respect for social and environmental standards, which do not comply with the paris agreement. today, the problem is not so much china, but brazil and other countries that are circumventing the european anti-dumping laws that the commissioner mentioned earlier, because anti-dumping laws are circumvented by the import of so-called slabs, which are actually blocks of steel. these are unfinished products, which are not subject to any tax when they enter the european union. we really need to act on these unfinished products, we need to put an end to them by taking new measures such as the carbon tax at the borders, which will support the european steel industry, which is making great efforts in the framework of the green deal: circular carbon energy, carbon capture and storage and even the production of iron from decarbonised hydrogen. all these efforts are being made by our european companies, and we must support them.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam high representative, in 1974 the turkish army invaded northern cyprus. despite numerous international protests and efforts by the united nations, the turkish occupation continues; 30,000 turkish soldiers are still stationed in northern cyprus. in 2004, cyprus joined the european union. despite the efforts of all, one member state of our union remains divided today. in 2014, the european council issued a first protest due to turkey's failure to respect the sovereignty of cyprus over its territorial waters and its exclusive economic zone. i quote that date, 2014, because at that time turkey had been negotiating its accession to the european union since 2005. we are told that these negotiations, and we hope that they will bring the candidate countries closer to our priorities and values. what is the european council doing in 2014 when a candidate country makes a clear case for not recognising the sovereignty of a member state? he said he was deeply concerned and then continued the accession negotiations with turkey. for years, we have been lining up words, speeches, and turkey has not taken us seriously. for years we have failed to express effective solidarity with one of our member states, cyprus. and, even more recently, another member state, mr orbán's hungary, has shown itself more sensitive to the arguments of mr erdoğan's turkey than to the duty of solidarity towards cyprus before, it seems, giving in. on monday, the foreign affairs council finally agreed on a sanctions framework. it's about time! how long did it take? fortunately, european countries, including france, are sighted off the coast of cyprus, and i am proud that my country is able to express its solidarity in a concrete way... (the president cut to the speaker)
madam president, the relationship between the european union and turkey is a toxic relationship: turkey benefits from our efforts and responds with contempt and provocation. i feel that this is a kind of sadomasochistic game where, in the end, we protest and, in the end, turkey continues and completely mocks it. when the turks invade northern syria, the european union protests. when president erdoğan threatens to exploit the refugees on his soil, in particular because of the civil war he has been waging, we dare not say anything. the question of turkish drilling in the cypriot sea must therefore be too much of a provocation. turkey is acting in this matter as it did in the case of the greek islands: it is clearly attacking the sovereignty of a member state. the european union cannot be credible if it allows its members to be humiliated by states which it continues to finance. his convictions, so far, are just words. no political act is taken. it is time to finally complete the accession process and to renegotiate all agreements with ankara. today, europe is complicit in mr erdoğan's provocations by continuing to support him economically, when it should, on the contrary, support greece and cyprus, which are suffering from mr erdoğan's provocations.
madam president, the 1974 illegal occupation of cyprus; 1983 proclamation of the turkish republic of northern cyprus; 2014 to 2018 erdogan's turkey maintaining a dubious and complacent policy of allowing oil sales to daesh, which funds islamist terrorism. it was at this time, four years ago, that the bataclan bombings took place: 130 dead, 450 wounded. the attacks, for which president sassoli refused to honour the memory of the victims with a moment of silence this afternoon; 2019: illegal drilling i can see that there are voices of condemnation in all the seats tonight, but no voices of action. turkey is cheating, europe is paying, europe is in danger, but we are incapable of drawing the consequences. i will also be asking the commissioner-designate, oliver várhelyi, tomorrow when we are finally going to put an end to what my colleague, thierry mariani, called 'this sadomasochistic policy', which is the policy by which we continue to pay pre-accession funds to turkey, when we know that there will never be any question of it ever becoming a member of the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on monday the council announced a framework of restrictive measures which will make it possible to sanction turkey for illegal drilling in the eastern mediterranean and in the waters of a member state, cyprus. for the umpteenth time, erdogan's response was a threat, a blatant blackmail as unacceptable as it was, not to hand over daesh jihadists to europe. for the umpteenth time, the turkish president's statements and actions openly defy us, holding us under blackmail, violating the most basic rights of his own citizens on a daily basis, invading a neighbouring country in which what can be called a genuine ethnic replacement is taking place and, finally, illegally entering the waters of a member state of the union, of which, at least on paper, he claims to want to be a part. how many more debates are needed to understand that erdogan's turkey should no longer be considered a candidate for membership that should be shelved, but rather a potentially crucial but certainly unreliable partner ready to do anything to gain greater influence in the region? that is why we support these sanctions, which are necessary but not sufficient. that is why we are and will always be on the side of the law and our cypriot friends.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i thank you all for, first of all, having expressed collectively what to me is the most important element, which is full solidarity with one of our member states – cyprus. this unity is needed because it is constantly tested from the outside and also, from time to time, from the inside. i believe it is a fundamental, key, vital element of our being together – the basic fact that if the rights, the sovereignty of one of our member states is violated, as is the case in this moment with these turkish drilling activities, the rest of the european union has to come together and not only show solidarity but also act in solidarity with cyprus. and this is why, for me, it has been key all over these months – i would say all over these years – to keep a constant contact and coordination with cyprus itself, with one of our member states, and design a way in which we could react and shape a common reaction together with cyprus. one question i would like to come back to, which is what next? the framework is now established, which means that, now, member states can – and i would expect that they would – present proposals for names, both of individuals and entities, that would then be analysed on the basis of a solid legal basis. you know that our sanction system is based on elements that need to resist the test of a court judgment in case they are appealed against. so member states are now going to present proposals for names of individuals and entities, this is then going to be analysed by the member states themselves through our council procedures and, by unanimity, the member states – the council – is going to adopt further steps. so this is what i would expect to happen next. this can go very fast or slower depending on different bodies and obviously also depending on the overall environment, because what i want to stress here is this – and i said it also in the beginning – sanctions, and the framework for introducing sanctions, is an instrument to put pressure and to try and provoke a change. the objective here is to change the attitude, stop the drillings and – i’m surprised that not many of you have underlined this – try to help the un finding what would be the real solution, what would be the settlement of the cyprus issue. a united cyprus inside the european union, this would be the game changer, not only for the drilling activities but also, and mainly, for cyprus itself and for the european union and for the entire region. so this is why i referred to the upcoming meeting that guterres has convened at the end of this month. it is, i believe, important for us to constantly stress this – the fact that, in this moment, the european union is continuing to look at that solution, at that framework – at the un framework – as the real solution for this issue and for the settlement as such, and that we are obviously ready to accompany this. we have discussed this with our turkish counterparts several times, including in the recent months, including at my level – obviously this activity is going in the opposite direction, and this is an additional reason why we want to see them stopping. and first and foremost, let me stress it once again, to reaffirm that the european union is united in defence of the sovereignty of one of our member states.
in writing. – i agree with the eu council decision to make sanctions against turkey to try and stop their illegal drilling activities in cyprus’ exclusive economic zone. the european union is based on a strong legal framework, and that is why we must respect and enforce international law. if turkey continues to violate international law set under the un convention on the treaty of the sea, then the eu has to take action against turkey. of course, in the long term we wish a peaceful settlement in cyprus and eventually its reunification. but now it is our duty as countries of the eu to protect the sovereignty of our fellow member states.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, this is a critical moment for bolivia, a moment when maximum restraint and the strongest possible sense of responsibility is needed, both inside and outside the country. delicate moments like this require a firm rejection of violence and the highest level of statesmanship from all. as you know, on 20 october, bolivians voted in presidential elections that were marred by several irregularities. this has brought bolivian citizens to the streets. it has led to violence and civil unrest across the country. three people were killed, and more than 100 were injured. the current unrest follows months and years of tensions regarding the country’s political future. as you all know, president morales took the controversial decision to run for a fourth term in office, with the approval of the constitutional court but after failing to win a referendum to amend the constitution itself. tensions escalated around election day. when the polls closed, a preliminary results counting system showed that none of the candidates was likely to win enough votes in the first round and that a second round was the most plausible outcome. the system was then blocked for some 20 hours and, when it resumed, it registered a sharp change in the initial tendency. the supreme electoral courts announced president morales as the winner in the first round by a margin of just 0.5% of the votes. the vice-president of the court resigned during the counting process, in protest at the way the process was managed. as a consequence, demonstrations and violence broke out across the country. five local election offices were set on fire and the most powerful civil society organisation called for a general strike. the organisation of american states had deployed an election observation mission to bolivia and it declared, in a preliminary report, that the best option would be for the two leading candidates to move on to the second round run-off. this assessment was endorsed by the european union’s election expert mission that we had sent to the country, and by several eu member states. we also expressed this position publicly on 24 october. given the widespread mistrust, the bolivian government invited the organisation of american states to carry out an electoral audit. the government agreed that the results of the audit would be binding. the audit was supported by some eu member states with experts and also with some funding. the preliminary conclusions were announced last monday. the audit identified a number of irregularities and concluded that the election results should be annulled and fresh elections should be held as soon as possible. in the following hours, the opposition asked president morales to resign and so did the head of the bolivian armed forces. president morales, together with the vice-president and a number of ministers, decided to step down and he has sought political asylum, as you know, in mexico. according to the constitution, based on the absence and resignation of president, vice-president and presidents and first vice-presidents of the chambers, the second vice-president of the senate would be next in line to assume the presidency in a caretaker role until new elections. the european union supports an institutional solution that allows for a caretaker interim leadership to prepare for new elections and to avoid a power vacuum which could have dire consequences for the entire country. in these very days and hours, we have been active – through our delegation in la paz, whom i want to thank – in creating a space where government, opposition and civil society could meet and discuss a way out of this situation. we are actively supporting the mediation organised by the local catholic church to help the bolivian parties agree on a peaceful path that can lead to new elections. this mediation has already produced some first results in easing tensions partially and avoiding a worse escalation of violence. at the foreign affairs council last monday, i updated the foreign ministers of the eu member states on our work on the ground. we discussed how best to support bolivia in preparation for the announced election. we are assessing the possibility of a new european union mission to the country and of assistance in the election of a new supreme electoral court. bolivia is a very important partner for the european union. these years we have built a strong political cooperation and we have developed political dialogues where we discuss all issues, including those where we have disagreements or different views. we deployed an election expert mission to the country and we have several projects in support of bolivia’s strong civil society. in the last 14 years, bolivia has certainly changed for the better. poverty has dropped. access to basic services has improved. indigenous people have increasingly been included in the country’s public life. all these successes must be preserved, and this can only happen through a peaceful, political solution that respects the constitution and the rule of law and that can bring the country to new, timely credible elections which faithfully reflect the will of the bolivian people. bolivia can come out of this crisis and consolidate its democratic institutions. it has all the potential to continue on a path of democracy, sustainable development and social inclusion. the coming weeks will be crucial. the european union will continue to be at the side of the bolivian people, as we have been throughout the years and, in particular, in this difficult moment in the country’s democratic life.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, madam mogherini, i want to start by expressing my concern about the very difficult situation in bolivia. we cannot ignore that the trigger for what is happening was the indisputable fraud in the presidential elections of 20 october last, in which evo morales declared himself the winner. a few days ago we received - as you yourself have pointed out - the first conclusions of the audit of the electoral counting carried out by the organization of american states, which shows that fraud has indeed occurred. the audit confirms and inter alia extremely serious irregularities: computer manipulation, falsified records, unacceptable incidents in the chain of custody of data... in short, so many and so relevant that it was impossible to validate the electoral process and, as a consequence, the oas has urged the calling of new elections. given these facts, the resignation of president evo morales was absolutely necessary. the political fragility of bolivia is certainly enormous and it is necessary to prevent it from becoming chronic. the european parliament must call on the bolivian authorities and people to redirect the political situation along peaceful, democratic and constitutional lines. the new elections must be conducted with all the guarantees, with all the transparency, and there must also be an international observation mission that is credible, competent and reliable.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, thank you, mrs mogherini, for all you have said. bolivia needs to redirect the situation of violence and confrontation that characterizes its social and political life towards peace and towards the word. reset the situation. to put it on a civilized and democratic path requires that this crisis be ended by new elections. the electoral fraud ascertained by the organization of american states definitively broke the citizens' trust in the system; a bankruptcy that began with the maneuver to propitiate a new mandate of president evo morales, clearly unconstitutional. therefore, only new elections and a neutral and trustworthy arbiter can turn the situation around. this election must be conducted peacefully. we do not accept expressions of violence against people, threats against the media, clashes or attacks on public officials, which we reject completely. and they need an independent and credible arbitrator to shield the process from any attempts at fraud. the armed forces and the police must refrain from interfering in political processes and submit to civilian control. the inter-american commission on human rights has just reminded us of this. this body denounces and rejects violence as a means of political coercion, calls for the eradication of hate speech and calls for respect for plurality, with special attention to that represented by indigenous communities. finally, we must continue to combat poverty, inequality and marginalization which still affect very important layers of the bolivian population. we therefore want new elections with full guarantees and transparency, and a european observation mission could help to achieve this. a national dialogue for peace and reconciliation sponsored by the institutions should be promoted and plans and strategies that encourage sustainable, inclusive and inclusive development in the country should be accelerated. we hope, mrs mogherini, that the european union will give its full support to this strategy, as it has always done.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam vice-president, as mrs mogherini has rightly described, the organization of the elections in bolivia, the doubts about the validity of the results and, finally, the forced departure of evo morales to mexico have opened a period of uncertainty and turmoil which we deplore. the european union must act so that this country, which has enjoyed a period of historic stability for the last 14 years, can quickly return to the path of democracy, and we must not, in relation to this country, limit our attention to the lithium deposits available on its territory. madam vice-president, we must therefore call for the restoration of democracy in bolivia and we must contribute to this by supporting the rapid organization of pluralist elections. i propose that we study, with the organization of american states, what concrete measures we can propose to take in this direction. personally, i am in favour, as the union has done on many occasions, of sending an observer mission to ensure the transparency of the electoral process. calm and stability can only be restored if the bolivian people are assured of the democratic legitimacy of their future president.
madam president, finnish presidency, commissioner king, as chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i join my colleagues in this debate in expressing concern about how to end impunity for crimes against journalists, in accordance with the resolution adopted by the united nations, which calls for 2 november to be a day to speak out loud about the fact that freedom of expression, information pluralism and, above all, the fight against disinformation and hate speech are not to be found in backwater or elsewhere, but also in the european union and its member states; and that any form of attack, harassment, intimidation, physical or moral violence against journalists, or pointing out as alleged enemies of mass murder, or preventing access to press conferences, depending on the subject, is also an attack on the freedom of expression and the dignity of journalists, and a frontal attack on the dignity of journalists. this impunity must also be ended in the european union.
madam president, we all pay the price when journalists are feared, when they are censored, when they self-censor or when they are attacked. a journalist friend of mine was killed in 2001 and we had other friends who were persecuted. i know the situation. and now we are talking about impunity, because, even if we think of distant countries, what i have just told you happened in spain, in northern spain. and the murders of dafne caruana and jan kuciak have happened in malta and slovakia - we all paid for it - and for the moment these last two murders have gone unpunished. there are also attempts to censor journalists in our countries, commissioner king said. less well known is the report by reporters without borders which has denounced that there have been more than fifty attacks on journalists in catalonia in the last year; that they have been carried out by fanatical secessionists who are trying to build an identitarian state because they cannot bear to see all the social plurality displayed. the reporters without borders report literally states that "from the chants and the incriminations we have gone to insults, harassment and harassment and finally to physical aggression, a pattern that is always repeated in the spirals of hatred of the journalist". we say enough in this parliament today to the pressure and attacks on the media everywhere in the world. we also say enough! to the coercion of groups or governments that seek to muzzle journalists. because it is a new and very serious threat to the democratic rule of law, in europe and around the world.
madam president, in its report on the rule of law in hungary, this parliament raised the freedom of the press as one of the 12 points. the concentration of media ownership in the hands of oligarchs is increasing in hungary, and a huge consortium has recently been created to bring together nearly 500 private media outlets, cable tv, radio and websites as well as the entire regional daily press. independent media has become very rare. this is an extreme example of what is sometimes happening today in the european union itself. but make no mistake: in all member states, governments are tempted to curtail freedom of expression and would often like to prevent disturbing investigations or critical speech against them. the ranking by reporters without borders shows that no country is immune from crimes against journalists. moreover, the fight against terrorism - a legitimate concern of states - is increasingly being used as a pretext for the accumulation of illegitimate censorship laws against freedom of expression. finally, the digital world brings us new questions: how to punish hate speech, protect our children, prevent discriminatory speech, without ever entering an orwellian world of mass surveillance and censorship. these are all questions that this parliament, the commission and the council must ask themselves and that they can answer with a firm commitment to protecting press freedom. for a vibrant democracy and a functioning rule of law, freedom of the press, this fourth estate, is an essential element.
madam president, it should be recalled that this international day of tribute to journalists killed in the line of duty was established in memory of two french journalists, ghislaine dupont and claude verlon, who were murdered in mali on 2 november 2013. in 12 years, 1,000 journalists have been killed for simply reporting. today, there are at least 250 journalists in prison around the world. half of them are in egypt, china and turkey. when journalists are targeted, it is democracy and freedom of thought that are under attack. i would like to end with a particular case from the news: the turkish journalist and writer ahmet altan has just been arrested again, a week after being released and released from prison. i urge the turkish authorities to release him immediately. show the world your commitment to a free press, show the world your willingness, not to isolate yourself, but to take a step towards a more just world.
madam president, independent journalism is the essential tool for transparency and therefore an essential pillar in the building of democratic awareness. any attack on journalists should rightly outrage us. however, i would like to recall the murder of journalist jamal khashoggi on 2 october 2018 at the saudi arabian consulate in istanbul, turkey. such atrocities - in this case, however, we are talking about dismemberment - have not slowed down the many proofs of affection of our european leaders towards the perpetrators and accomplices. moreover, if it is normal to condemn crimes against non-european journalists, i would like to hear the same when our journalists, on european soil, are threatened with death. reporting crime is good; preventing it is even better. in france today, on the anniversary of the bataclan attacks, zineb el rhazoui and zemmour, both journalists and, for the first, victims of the attack, are receiving death threats or violence, sometimes relayed or even encouraged on television sets. i would therefore like to hear a strong and unanimous condemnation of any form of violence against all journalists, without exception and without regard for their opinions. the denunciation of crimes is not nourished by words but by concrete political acts.
madam president, on the occasion of this debate on crimes against journalists, i too would like to pay tribute to the journalist daphne caruana galizia, who was murdered just two years ago. assassinated for daring to expose corruption scandals involving senior maltese politicians; murdered because of her outstanding investigative work and public interest; murdered because she dared to do her job as a journalist. the pressures and intimidation faced by journalists who attack the powerful are a major democratic issue and the current trend is worsening and is not reassuring, including in france, where journalists covering protests have been victims of police violence and where media investigating french arms sales to yemen have been summoned by the intelligence services. how can we tolerate such pressures, such a restriction on the freedom of the press? ngos and citizens who raise the alarm need an independent press, not in the hands of a very limited number of actors, and able to inform the general public. i've seen in the past in my work at oxfam to fight tax evasion, journalists are often the last line of defense against total impunity. in conclusion, i would like to quote beaumarchais: 'without the freedom to blame, there is no flattering praise'. to have taken this freedom, some like daphne have paid a terrible price, so more than ever, let us protect this freedom without which our democracies would be nothing more than a fiction.
madam president, the ebola outbreak in the democratic republic of congo is a global health emergency and a real danger to other countries too, even if they are distant, because of the imported cases. we welcome the recent official launch of the vaccine, which will protect the people around the sick and also the healthcare professionals. we also welcome the strength of international and multidisciplinary cooperation, strongly supported by the european commission, which has made this great technological breakthrough possible. we draw the commission's attention to several needs: strengthening local health systems that are fragile, coordinating stockpile management to avoid the risk of shortages, informing the population and combating the risks of fake news that have already been mentioned previously, and preparing european countries to respond to potential imported cases.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, greece is experiencing a real migration flood with a recent 29% increase in the number of migrants compared to the same period in 2018. the situation is so dire that riots recently broke out in the overcrowded refugee camp of moria on the greek island of lesbos, and several people were killed. faced with this tragic situation for both the local population and the refugees, the greek government has announced its intention to return some 10,000 migrants to turkey by the end of 2020. what is happening in the greek islands is yet another demonstration of the failure of an immigration policy which, under the guise of generous ideas, is plunging thousands of human beings into dramatic situations. increasing the resources for such migration will further accentuate the already considerable numbers of migrants. instead of letting these unfortunates believe in an eldorado, it is essential to re-establish a rigorous asylum procedure, to close the borders until the situation is brought under control, and to act towards the countries of origin of immigration. let us also not forget that our duty of solidarity must concern above all our own people, who must be protected from uncontrolled migration flows.
madam president, a struggle for survival in hell on earth; thousands of people in dire conditions in greece; welcome to prison: winter hits one of greece’s worst refugee camps; third migrant dies in a week in harsh greek camp conditions. four articles; four different media outlets; four different winters. for four winters we have been discussing here the urgent action needed in greece. and it’s not just about greece; it is a european challenge, and the lack of solidarity is indeed appalling. indeed, if a greek minister sends his 27 colleagues a letter to ask for help and only one of them replies, what does that say about the other 26? what does that say about any of us? how many people need to freeze to death or drown in the mediterranean before we actually come to a sustainable solution for the future? and i know there are no easy or quick fixes, but complexity can never be an excuse to refuse any kind of progress year after year after year. decongesting the islands; getting the inflow of migrants under control again; better protection of external borders; humane reception conditions for refugees; efficient asylum procedures where we distinguish between refugees and economic migrants; effective returns; better cooperation with third countries; responsibility-sharing within the eu: we all know what needs to be done. all the pieces of the puzzle are there on the table. it is time to act.
i have to say, madam president, it is not only in moria, on the greek island of lesbos, that we tolerate refugees being kept in miserable conditions. the commission has also been working on a new strategy for the protection of the environment, which is to be implemented by the end of the year. all the european countries show a lack of solidarity, and the commitments to distribute are simply not being implemented. the distribution of asylum applications in 2015 on our continent of 510 million people would not have been too much of a challenge. because, if we were to take all our municipalities, these figures would mean that for a town with 20,000 inhabitants, for example, we would only have taken in 51 refugees. promoting our european way of life what we have been experiencing for the last four years should not be promoted, but finally effectively ended.
madam president, two weeks ago i went to the island of samos in greece to give a report on the situation of migrants. i saw conditions of life that were inhuman, unworthy. the number of seats is 6,100 for a capacity of 650 - ten times as many! on lesbos, it's five times as much. many have no access to sanitation, showers or food. this is contrary to the standards of the unhcr and the construction of the new 1,000-seat camp you are talking about, commissioner, will therefore not be enough. these hotspots, like the agreement with erdoğan's turkey or with libya, are the shame of europe. but greece is only suffering the consequences of this disastrous decision by the european union. the commission is responsible for setting up these hotspots, which it is financing, commissioner, and every government that refuses greece's call for solidarity is responsible, madam council representative. there is an urgent need to speed up transfers from the islands to the mainland to end overcrowding in the hotspots and to increase relocations to other european countries. it is not a migration crisis, much less a migration tsunami, as the extreme right abjectly claims, that we are facing, but a reception crisis.
madam president, it is now four years since the migrant crisis was declared to be unending. every day in the aegean sea, hundreds of migrants land on the greek coast, nearly 45 000 since the beginning of the year. the situation is becoming more and more untenable, and this applies to everyone. firstly, the local population, which is completely overwhelmed by this influx of migrants and which now has to bear the consequences. whose fault is it? who among the selfish nation states would refuse to shoulder the burden of migration? no, the fault lies with the european union and all the leaders who, in deeds or in speeches, have encouraged the arrival of hundreds of thousands of migrants and illegal immigrants by opening our borders wide. frontex, which is supposed to protect europe's external borders, is also to blame, but is now acting like a real hostess for migrants. the model is not in europe, but in australia, where the policy of automatically returning vessels and illegal immigrants and processing asylum applications in the countries of origin has helped to stem the incessant flows. it is time to put in place a european 'no way' in the aegean and to bring order back to our borders.
mr president, this resolution, which was voted with the complicity of the right wing, is intended to intimidate a sovereign nation which has made choices in terms of migration or social policy which differ from the liberal europeanist approach. you condemn decisions of poland that do not exist. the commission admitted that no legislation currently in force criminalizes sex education in poland. the resolution essentially aims to impose on european citizens the teaching of gender theory from an early age. it supports who recommendations which in some states shamefully go as far as masturbation education for 0-4 year olds. but it is on principle that this resolution is the most abject, by opposing any decisions of a democratically elected national parliament even before it legislates. it should be recalled that the treaties stipulate that the union respects the responsibility of the states in terms of education. the european parliament therefore has no legitimacy to tell the polish people how to educate their children.
mr. chairman, i voted against this resolution for two main reasons. firstly, the resolution is a shining example of what the european parliament should not be doing, because education is a matter of internal affairs, internal organisation, internal national sovereignty. it is neither the place nor the task of the european parliament to decide on education-related tasks in any sovereign member state of the european union, including poland. this is a clear interference and a clear violation of the treaties. secondly, however, i voted "no" because this propaganda -- call it what you want, lgbt and homosexual or whatever -- has no place in schools. this is a new bolshevism, this is a new attempt to instill certain categorically bolshevik ideas in children. i categorically reject any such attempt to interfere in the internal affairs of any sovereign member state.
mr president, age-appropriate sex and relationship education or sre is vital if all our sons and daughters are going to grow up to be healthy and happy citizens who can contribute to society. i’m proud to have co-authored a successful report in the last mandate on empowering women and girls through education, which included a recommendation regarding sre. this house supports gender equality, which means advancing the rights of non-binary people. in that respect we must ensure that sre also extends to lgbtiaq+ people. perhaps then i would not have to march in future polish prides with police protection, as i did in plock this summer, where i was on the receiving end of right-wing, fascist violent abuse. criminalising educators for offering sre to schools is unacceptable in any eu member state. poland needs to enter the 21st century.
mr president, i should like to say at the outset that i support this motion for a resolution and i would also like to stress that i do not think it is sensible to transfer national political conflicts, national political struggles, to the european level, because that would allow the european union to interfere in these national political struggles, which are natural. but there are crucial issues where i think it makes sense for the european union to speak and for us to make our point. that was the case in this case, in my opinion. i consider sex education, which is carried out by educational institutions, as an essential part of the formation of a person, of course the family must also influence, this is understandable, but the right to this education is given to the child. and i think it's important to preserve that right and not jeopardize it. i know that the proposal has not yet been approved, that it is not a proposal of the polish government, but i firmly believe that they are receiving a clear signal from our environment that we consider this subject to be necessary in order to preserve the european value of access to a full-fledged education system.
mr president, brussels has no locus here, there’s no legal base for our intervention, there is no conceivable way in which we can define sex education in schools as being something that is necessary to the smooth functioning of an internal market in europe. there is a wide and legitimate range of opinions in this chamber. we’ve heard some fairly eccentric ones, but everyone is entitled to a point of view. but here’s the thing: not one of us in this chamber is answerable directly to the polish electorate in the forum that decides education policy. decisions of this kind, precisely these sensitive national issues, should be determined by the democratic institutions and mechanisms of the member state. it’s pretty clear what’s happened. yet again, we have a motion intended to embarrass one member party which is in government in one member state. the idea is that if you don’t vote to bully and hector and lecture the poles, that somehow you’re homophobic or you’re against equal rights. people are not that stupid. i’d make the point more widely: voters are brighter than a lot of people in this chamber think they are.
i would inform the honourable members that there are no blue card procedures in the explanations of vote. the bureau cannot therefore accept the request that has been made.
the european parliament shall be informed of the outcome of the vote.
ladies and gentlemen, take your seats. one in three women or girls will experience physical or sexual violence in their lifetime. victims are not statistics. a woman who is a victim of violence suffers it all her life. we must break the silence, ladies and gentlemen, and put an end to shame and impunity. gender-based violence is a violation of human rights. it is also one of the main obstacles to the empowerment of women and girls and to the achievement of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. it has devastating consequences for the victims but also for our societies. it is our common task to put an end to violence against women and girls. it is a task of every moment, of every day, a task which must involve indignation but also action. action to ensure gender equality, prevent violence, protect victims and bring perpetrators to justice. action to achieve global, coordinated policies, involving diverse actors and making a difference for the women and girls of our time. it is time for all member states and the european union to ratify the istanbul convention, the first legally binding international instrument to prevent and combat violence against women and girls. on the occasion of the 2019 international day for the elimination of violence against women, we will join orange the world, bringing to light the stories of women and girls who are looking to a brighter future and a future free from violence. the house will also be wearing orange tonight in solidarity with all the women who have been victims of violence, to send a message of peace and the will to act, to defend our values, the values of the european union. (parliament agreed to a minute's silence)
the final draft agenda established by the conference of presidents, pursuant to rule 157 of the rules of procedure, at its meeting on thursday 21 november 2019 has been distributed. there are requests for amendments. following consultations with the political groups, i would like to table the following amendments to the final draft agenda: mondaythe commission's statement on measures to deal with the impact on european agriculture of the wto decision in the airbus dispute should be moved to tuesday afternoon as the fourth item. the sitting on tuesday would therefore end at 11 p.m. (parliament approved the request) thursday the voting time has been brought forward: the vote will begin at 11.30 a.m. and end at 1.30 p.m. (parliament approved the request)
tuesdaythe gue/ngl group has called for the discussion of the commission's statement on public discrimination and incitement to hatred against lgbti people, including lgbti-free areas, to be concluded with a resolution to be voted on in december. i give the floor to mrs björk to present the request of the gue/ngl group.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, my colleagues in the lgbti intergroup and i have requested the debate which the president just announced, but we are now proposing to add a resolution to be voted and prepared for the december part—session. the reason is, of course, that this house needs to give a strong message and some support at a very critical moment when our colleagues in some of our member states are facing a very, very harsh reality. i think they can count on our support, and i look forward to us voting in december on this.
the id group has also asked for a commission statement on the banning of lead ammunition to be added to the agenda for tuesday as the last item. i give the floor to mr buchheit to present the request of the id group.
the gue/ngl group also asked for the council and commission statements on the unacceptable conditions to which animals are subjected during transport to third countries to be added to tuesday's agenda in the afternoon, after the commission statement on the crisis in the wto appellate body. i call mr hazekamp to present the request of the gue/ngl group.
the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the black sea. the overloaded ship queen hind capsized shortly after leaving the romanian port of midia. of the 14,600 sheep on board, only 33 survived this disaster. the fate of the remaining 14,567 sheep is left to be guessed: they drowned after a long and fearful death struggle. foreign ships, such as the queen hind, are increasingly calling at european ports. they transport millions of animals under appalling conditions to saudi arabia, the persian gulf and other far-flung destinations. european animal welfare rules are ignored. these transports are brutal, take weeks, and take place on converted cargo ships that are sometimes as much as 50 years old. the older the ships, the more likely these tragedies are to occur. we can't stand by any longer. the export of live animals to countries outside the eu must stop now. please show compassion and support the request for a debate on this. thank you in advance, and on behalf of the animals.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i’m really not against the debate; i would just like to put it back to the december session so that we can prepare ourselves properly for the debate. both you and i have been working for several years on the topic, and i would like to make sure that we are properly prepared for a decent debate. so i would like to raise the motion to put it on the december agenda instead of this present one. (applause)
mr. hazekamp, can you accept the request or do i have to put your proposal to a vote?
i am sorry to have to say that i have not been able to make a reply to the question. i can agree to a debate in december. with thanks to mr federley for his support.
as regards wednesday, the greens/efa group asked for a statement by the vice-president/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation of the uyghurs in china to be added as the third item in the afternoon. the debate should end with a resolution to be voted on at the december partsession. i give the floor to president ska keller to present her group's request.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we’ve probably all seen the reports about the china cables, outlining how hundreds of thousands of people are put into camps in china – being mistreated, being tortured, being put there against their will – and this is something where parliament should speak up and raise its opposition to such a blatant human rights violation. i would really like to ask colleagues for their support.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not we're not against it. but we would prefer the variant that we have the debate and the resolution in parallel with the awarding of the sakharov prize 2019 in december to the uyghur ilham tohti. but in order to take account of the timeliness of the matter, which the honourable member has rightly raised - that is to say, the documents we all know - perhaps president sassoli could, in the context of the 2018 sakharov prize - the award to oleh senzow will take place this week - point out that this is also an urgent matter. we have mentioned this urgently here, but then a little more preparation, and also in terms of content, would be very well suited to the award ceremony next month. that would be our proposal.
the s&d group also called for the title of the debate on thursday to be changed to 'violation of human rights in algeria'. i give the floor to mr glucksmann to present the s&d group's request.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as an extraordinary movement of revolt has been raging in algeria for months, it is time for us to express our support. there was a debate on the title of this resolution and, in the end, it seems that the most consensual solution is: "on the situation of freedoms in algeria". in any case, whatever the title chosen, it is extremely important that this house express its support for a democratic revolution that has been so lacking in voices of solidarity outside its borders.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, according to the united nations, the world reached a new record in greenhouse gas emissions in 2018. this is another missed opportunity, because scientists tell us that these emissions will have to decrease from 2020 onwards if we are to meet the paris agreements and limit the temperature rise to 1.5 degrees. so we have two years to turn this around, two years so that our children, our grandchildren, these young people who are mobilizing all over the world, can just live on this earth tomorrow. because it is the very survival of the human species that is at stake. it is time for our parliament to declare the obvious: we are in a climate and environmental emergency. look at the time! there is so much to do: let's plan the energy transition to reach 100% renewable energy by 2050; let's turn the page on free trade by rejecting new trade agreements and instead promoting the economic relocation of activities; radically change the common agricultural policy to build the organic agriculture of tomorrow; let's put in place the green rule instead of the gold rule so that every decision we make now is made in the light of the climate emergency. let's move fast before it's too late.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the paris agreement died before it was born because of the planned failure of its funding and its objectives. after the us withdrawal, it becomes impossible for europe to mobilise the resources needed for the green fund. what about the €1 trillion in the green deal? the cop will also have to reassess its climate ambition in the face of the failure to meet commitments in asia and africa, two regions that pollute far more than we do. europe's blindness is most clearly manifested in the globalist vision of un experts and ngos, in the disregard of the only possible path, namely local and national cooperation, in the instrumentalisation of climate diplomacy for the purpose of interference against the sovereignty of states and in the response to the deadly danger of climate migrations announced against the background of environmental catastrophism. (speaker refuses a question from robert rowland)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as a former sportswoman, i have learned the power of collective action, especially in the face of major challenges. in the face of this extraordinary challenge of climate change, our strength will therefore be our ability to act collectively. what citizens want is the leadership of a europe that joins forces to implement solutions. the ambition of the green deal, the eib's first steps towards a european climate bank, the conclusions of the ocean council last week and this resolution are proof that we can converge our ideas to meet this challenge, beyond our differences. i am particularly pleased that we have been able to highlight in this resolution the consequences for the ocean and, at the same time, the fundamental role it plays in the balance of the climate. the ocean is also part of the solution, and this will be one of the topics of the blue cop, as next week the chilean president will launch a platform of 'ocean solutions', namely, the restoration of marine and coastal ecosystems, the development of renewable marine energy and the design of green boats. in conclusion, i repeat and will repeat that europe, as the world's leading maritime area, must build a genuine maritime strategy in the green blue deal.
mr president, i have a minute to speak. every minute, 95,129 square meters of forest disappear worldwide, 416,666 tons of ice melt in the arctic, three marine animals die because of plastic spilled into the oceans. five years is the time all the experts have left us to reverse the trend, to ensure that life continues on our beautiful planet earth and thus to give hope and a horizon to current and future generations. so let us declare a climate and environmental emergency, but let it not be, as mr canfin said earlier, just a symbol. the young people he was referring to are not taking the emblems seriously. it is no longer time for symbols but for action. we need concrete, ambitious and immediate climate action. we must review all our european policies in the light of the paris agreement and only through this lens. five years is the length of our mandate, ladies and gentlemen. five years from now, we can be extremely proud of having taken our responsibilities and thus ensured a future for our children, our grandchildren and their descendants. otherwise, in five years' time, we will feel deep shame that we did not have the courage and the audacity to continue to look our families in the eye. i urge you: let's vote for a climate and environmental emergency, but let's commit ourselves with action.
mr president, on 13 november, the lancet published an article entitled 'counting down, health and climate change: ensuring that the health of the child born today is not determined by climate change'. it's the largest international scientific journal that says so. it is indeed our health and that of our children that is at stake. climate change is an emergency, a health emergency, an absolute health emergency. already in africa, people are suffering and dying from the health consequences of global warming. we must reach out to them. tomorrow, the health emergency will be in the regions of europe already threatened by the proliferation of new infectious diseases linked to warming. urgency does not mean panic, however. the emergency department is the one where crisis management is anticipated and organised, far from catastrophism and the manipulation of the population by fear. we must quickly and calmly organize this emergency.
mr president, we are facing an unprecedented crisis which is causing legitimate concern. but the job of politics is to respond to emotion with reason. but i am concerned that we often respond to emotion with a form of folly. this is the case in some of the texts that are proposed to us about the climate crisis. let us take a moment to reflect on the question of energy, particularly nuclear energy, which we are asked to condemn strongly as an energy that does not contribute to solving the climate problems. it is very clear, ladies and gentlemen, that if we are to cope with the situation we are in today, we must - as the ipcc itself explains - make do with all the resources available that do not produce carbon, and nuclear energy is one of them. of course, in the long run, the security issues raised by this energy pose immense problems. but today, it would be foolish to dig our own grave by organising the deconstruction of a sector that can help us to meet, in the immediate future, the climate challenge that awaits us. finally, we must also use the single market we have built intelligently to make the fight for the restoration of the balance of the climate prevail. i believe that this is the meaning of the work we have to do in the economic field and also in the ecological challenge.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today, on 25 november 2019, i am outraged. i am outraged because in france this year 138 women have been murdered by their husbands. i am appalled that in europe at least seven women are killed every day because they are women. i am outraged because in the world we don't even know how many femicides are committed. i am appalled to learn that seven member states have still not ratified the istanbul convention. on 25 november, my thoughts are with all the victims and their families, because violence affects all women, of all ages, from all backgrounds and nationalities. their names are rosa, aurore, maria, natalia. they're spanish, french, german, greek. to combat all this violence, we have an instrument: the istanbul convention. so let us be europeans! let's stand up for our values and ratify the convention!
mr president, violence against women is a deadly scourge against which we must all fight. this objective must be a priority. however, this just cause is being misused to impose an istanbul convention which, while dealing with violence against women, also aims to impose a harmful ideology. the aim of the convention is to introduce gender theory into curricula at all levels of education, thus imposing a number of key concepts that have nothing to do with women's rights. it also involves tackling gender-based violence at international level, in other words, giving asylum to the hundreds of millions of women around the world who are victims of such violence. unfortunately, this does not bring any real solution in the countries of origin, and this is something we should look at. finally, you want to impose on all europeans the european union's accession to this convention, even though seven member states refuse to ratify it. the peoples of europe want to fight violence against women, but they refuse to internalize the deviations.
this day is an opportunity for us women, meps and members of the identity and democracy group, to recall that violence against women is a constant concern, inseparable from the promotion of our model of civilisation based on equality between men and women. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, including the introduction of a new vaccine for the disease. 478 sexual assaults in cologne by hordes of illegal immigrants during the holidays in 2015; 52% of rapes in paris are committed by foreigners. while not exclusive, the share of non-indigenous offenders in these acts is significant. states or associations more ideological than feminist must stop downplaying the role of immigration in the attacks on women. opening the floodgates of immigration means increasing the threats to european women; to prevent women from saying this is to lock the victims of these attacks in a double penalty.
mr president, i do not wish to place too much blame on the commission's negotiators, but we must admit that the ukrainians have had it good. european poultry farmers, already under pressure, are paying dearly for this european naivete, which will continue to pay dearly in the long term, since ukraine has obtained an additional quota of 50 000 tonnes in the case. i personally regret that the request of the committee on agriculture, namely the introduction of a so-called 'new generation' safeguard clause, has not been taken up. however, as you said, commissioner, this text puts an end to a situation that was out of control and, of course, we must give our consent to it.
member of the commission. – madam president, can i again thank those who contributed to this evening’s debate. i know that people are certainly more informed now in relation to the background, but also on what we have done to try and correct this particular problem which was unforeseen at the time of the negotiations, but legally this particular loophole was exploited and it is now corrected. we’ve also followed up with all of the other free trade agreements (ftas) in relation to poultry and other lines to ensure that a similar situation doesn’t happen in those particular respective ftas. so i’ve listened carefully and i do understand the concerns about having to concede 50 000 tonnes of additional quota of poultry meat from ukraine, but at the same time there would have been an unlimited amount of poultry coming into the european union otherwise. as you know, one of the priorities of the new commission is to establish this position of the chief enforcement officer and this person will operate under dg trade and will have a very important role in ensuring the implementation and enforcement of all of the ftas that we have to date. i could tell you that the commission has prepared a draft implementing regulation which has already been discussed with member states. this could be adopted in time for the opening and management of this additional quota by 1 january 2020, and for the sake of clarity, it is also worth making the point that the quota will be managed by a system of import licences, as is the case for the existing quotas of poultry meat. just turning to a few of the points raised by the speakers. ms hazekamp and mr bert-jan ruissen have rightly pointed out to various issues in the netherlands and the concerns that your poultry producers would have. the same can be said of france and poland. one point five million tonnes of poultry come into the european union every year because we have a deficit in poultry in the european union. three million tonnes of an increase in consumption of poultry has been happening over the last three years in the european union. that’s not to say that there are some producers in some countries where we have a high concentration of poultry which we certainly have to be conscious of. in the association agreement reached, ukraine has committed to approximate its sanitary and phytosanitary and animal welfare legislation with that of the european union, and once this is concluded and implemented, ukraine will be the first third country exporting significant volumes of poultry meat to the eu that applies eu welfare standards throughout the production chain. we have recently had a strategy meeting in relation to this and there has been an adoption by the eu-ukraine sps subcommittee on 18 november 2019 where the strategy has been agreed between the eu and ukraine. and i’m sorry to say to ms hazekamp that i don’t think the common agricultural policy is going to be abolished. you will probably be on your own – 99% of the people here, i think, agree with that particular outcome. can i finally say to my friend mr wallace from wexford that we have to have continued exports of food and farm products from the island of ireland: 90% of what we produce we export. if you want the thousands of jobs in wexford to continue in the food sector, we have to continue exporting – and at the end of the day you will be doing so on the same level playing field as the eu standards. no product comes into the european union without meeting eu standards. and if you want to close down food processors and particular people involved in the food sector in wexford, you should tell them that, and the wexford people, and maybe the enniscorthy echo as well next week.
the rapporteur. first of all, i'd like to thank officer hogan for bringing us this good news. i think that the lessons of this case are being applied in the negotiation of new free trade agreements and the review of previous ones is certainly encouraging. it is also encouraging that negotiations with ukraine continue on plant health, animal health and animal welfare issues. i know that ukraine wants to renew the free trade agreement, and i think that's a lesson for the future. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposed quota increase. i think the most important thing is to bring back into a regulated, legal framework what is not in line with the letter of the law, the text of the convention. unfortunately, what ukraine has done is a trick, a clever trick, and we're going to undo it, so it's very important that this amendment goes into effect as soon as possible. we were just talking about animal health, health issues. i'd like to reassure mr. kuzmiuk, so this case is not related to this, but i think it's very important that you raise, yes, these will have to be taken care of. i, as the head of the monitoring route on ukraine in the inta committee, will pay particular attention to this. finally, i am glad that the left has discovered farmers, and i am glad that they say that they too are concerned about the interests of european farmers. i hope that these representatives, when we talk about the common agricultural policy, its reform and the green economy, will still be willing to represent the interests of european farmers, of european farmers. thank you very much, and i ask that everyone support the amendment to the free trade agreement by correspondence at the vote tomorrow.
in writing. ukraine is an important geopolitical and geostrategic partner for the european union. the eu is ukraine's largest trading partner, accounting for over 40% of its trade in 2016. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions. we need to ensure that trade between the eu and ukraine is conducted in good cooperation. poultrymeat and poultrymeat products are considered sensitive products in the eu and therefore benefit from duty-free tariff quotas. it is therefore regrettable that the association agreement initially contained a loophole in the law. this created a situation where the eu started to receive a surge in the quantities of poultry cuts under the two non-protected tariff headings, which, after a slight change in the eu, were sold on the eu market as poultry breast meat, a sensitive product under the tariff quota. i support the abolition of the rule of law in the eu-ukraine association agreement at the earliest opportunity. this will ensure that trade in poultrymeat is again regulated and will protect the interests of eu producers by providing protection against possible unrestricted imports of poultrymeat.
in writing. i agree to the conclusion of an agreement with ukraine on the increase of the tariff quota for poultrymeat. the aim of the agreement is to allow imports of poultrymeat while protecting european poultry farmers and consumers. the treaty provides for an increase of the existing quota (18 400 tonnes) by 50 000 tonnes. this means that total imports of poultrymeat will be up to 68 400 tonnes. on the other hand, imports of 'poultry cuts' will be included in this quota. this lower quality portion of poultry will not be able to be imported duty-free as is the case today. the new quota will stabilise the quantity of poultrymeat imported from ukraine. in the last two years, imports of 'poultry cuts' imported outside the quota have increased to 55 000 tonnes per year. the contract also ensures that ukrainian breeders comply with health and veterinary standards to protect our consumers. equally important is helping ukraine. we are ukraine's largest export market. in this way, the eu can help a neighbouring country in difficulty. supporting ukraine as an important geopolitical partner is essential. overall, 50 000 tonnes of poultry is a negligible share of the eu market. on the contrary, we should consider whether the eu should reduce imports from countries such as brazil, from which we import more than 360 000 tonnes of poultrymeat a year.
in writing. i regret that a sensitive product - in this case poultrymeat - has been a direct victim of a dysfunctional trade agreement between the european union and ukraine. after the entry into force of the agreement, ukrainian exports of this poultry to the european union increased 15-fold in 2 years, and duty-free. the exponential increase in duty-free imports of this particular piece of poultry meat (from around 3 700 tonnes in 2016 to over 55 000 tonnes in 2018) has thus raised serious concerns. how could the commission have overlooked this mistake during the negotiations and at the time of the conclusion of the agreement? there is therefore clearly a problem with the commission's negotiating method for sensitive products. special attention should have been paid to this sensitive product from the very beginning of the negotiations. it also recalls the crucial importance of monitoring the implementation of the union's trade agreements. the forthcoming arrival of a head of trade enforcement at the commission should allow for immediate intervention and solutions in the event of a malfunctioning or non-compliance of an agreement.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, according to an ipcc report, 300 million people will be affected by rising sea levels over the next 30 years as a result of global warming and melting ice. it is estimated that a two-metre rise in sea level is quite possible by the end of the century and will cause considerable coastal shrinkage and inevitably lead to population displacement. this climate and ecological catastrophe portends future disasters in our landscapes and ecosystems, with potentially disastrous economic, human and social consequences. it will obviously lead to exile and serve as a pretext for mass immigration. i am of course particularly concerned about the thousands of kilometres of coastline in metropolitan france and overseas which will be affected by this sea overflow and the worsening of flooding, among other natural disasters. at best, this phenomenon must be brought to an end. at worst, we must anticipate and prepare for it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to french polynesia, a french territory in the pacific which, paradoxically, does not belong to the european union. thanks to polynesia, france has the benefit of deterrence and nuclear independence, and we are infinitely grateful to her for this. as a result of the tests carried out in the area, which could eventually be combined with the discharge of contaminated water from fukushima into the pacific ocean and the us tests in the marshall islands, some of our compatriots have been affected by particularly serious radiation-induced diseases. within the framework of its powers, as laid down in the treaties, the european union must be involved alongside france in protecting our polynesian compatriots and helping to find suitable treatment for them. france is a member of the european union, although the national assembly has reservations about this. as such, our compatriots in french polynesia should not be regarded as second-class citizens and should receive the help they deserve from the european institutions.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, this friday, shortly before the next european council, young people will take to the streets again and take out their placards with the words: 'change the system, not the climate'. this friday, i will be with them in the streets and we will shout together our thirst for life and the need to radically change our modes of production and consumption to save the planet. finally, this friday they will put us, the parliament, the council and the european commission, before your political responsibilities. as the next european council is due to define the long-term strategy that europe will present to the world at cop 25, these young people's voices must be heard in the din of goods on the table corners. the carbon neutrality target europe has set itself will not solve everything, as it is based on several risky biases. first, we are not in control of the absorption capacity of natural carbon sinks, as the terrible tragedies of the amazon forest have reminded us. secondly, we cannot rely on co2 capture technologies for our future without any assurance that they can be deployed on a large scale. finally, it would be hypocritical to shift our greenhouse gas emissions outside europe, which of course would not change the global climate change equation. this is the case for france, which is doubling its carbon footprint. let's face the harsh reality. according to the european environment agency, the measures currently in place in the member states guarantee a reduction of only 30% in greenhouse gas emissions, compared with a target of 55% set by our parliament. this is indeed an ambitious goal, but solutions are within reach if we make a thorough review of current policy guidelines. the announcement of a plan to renovate buildings to use energy is a good thing, as is the decision by the european investment bank to stop financing fossil fuels, contrary to what the far right thinks, which in this case is clearly never on the side of the people and the planet. now we must go further and faster, reorient the common agricultural policy, hold the multinationals responsible for deforestation and pollution with impunity, and reject climate-destroying free trade agreements. the european parliament must play its full part in these strategic decisions and in the development of a credible financing plan for the ecological transition; this is one of the key issues of the multiannual financial framework on the council's agenda, namely that we must empower ourselves to fight not only climate change but also inequalities. to do this, we must not strip peter to dress paul, by cutting the cohesion and agriculture budgets, as you have confirmed, mr timmermans. political priorities must be set: climate and solidarity rather than the dangerous and priceless adventure of a europe of defence. the solution is simple: go for the money where it is, by creating new taxes on the ecological and social balance of imported products, on financial transactions, but also on large multinational companies that do not pay their fair share of taxes. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, some tentative progress has been made in the 2020 climate budget, because parliament has refused to go to bed directly with the council. we must be truly ambitious in the negotiations under way so that the next multiannual financial framework is finally up to the environmental and social challenges of the century. it is up to us, ladies and gentlemen, to live up to the expectations of these young people who are simply asking for a world that is still habitable.
madam president, the european council of 12 and 13 december is scheduled to deal mainly with two issues: climate change and the multiannual financial framework. we are particularly concerned about the dogmatic approach to the climate issue. we see, with total incomprehension, the pursuit of two irreconcilable objectives: on the one hand, climate neutrality projected for 2050, and on the other, a race to globalisation with the multiplication of mega-free trade agreements (ceta, mercosur, agreements with japan, vietnam and, tomorrow, new zealand and australia). as long as the cost of carbon emitted to transport products imported from the other side of the planet is not included in the price, the efforts to achieve climate neutrality on our continent will be in vain and will be another illusion. two striking examples: at the flower market in nice, a rose imported from kenya is cheaper than a rose produced a few kilometres away in italy. i'm not even talking about the social and environmental conditions under which roses are grown in kenya: labor exploitation, overuse of pesticides, drying up of the soil. the carbon cost of importing this rose is nowhere to be found. it is a permit to pollute given by europe. to claim climate neutrality while turning a blind eye to such consequences is to commit a lie in the service of the globalist ideology. the car is the same. ideologically, european manufacturers are forced to abandon diesel for all-electric, without thinking about the consequences of the transition to a technology not mastered in europe. indeed, the rare earths all over the planet are being plundered by china to produce batteries that we will use; the recycling of these batteries is not organised, which leads to over-pollution; the components are imported in bulk using giant container ships, the largest source of carbon pollution, which is still unregulated. you antagonize generations with a disaster narrative that pits the young against the old, but you do not address the real causes of the increase in carbon production, which is globalization. to respond to this, the council will have to make efforts to reduce short distribution circuits, promote local production, produce as close as possible to what we consume and not encourage a leap forward, with unbridled free trade, a source of increasing pollution. as for the multiannual financial framework, this technocratic title hides a well-known reality: more for migrants, less for farmers. the budget proposals are marked by a marked decommitment of cap appropriations, due to the disappearance of coupled aid and the preference given to greening payments. there is nothing concrete in this greening, only words and communication to flatter an ideological environmentalism that is neither practical, nor reasonable, nor responsible. at the same time, this programme is pushing for an increase in aid to migrants, with the underlying objective of a future communitarianisation of the right to asylum, again by ideology. we are concerned about this programme, both because of its dogmatic and ill-considered aspects and because of its dangerous consequences for the future of the peoples of europe.
madam president, it is already a year since parliament adopted its position on the next multiannual financial framework and we expect the council to be willing to negotiate. it seems that things are finally moving, because you should, within a few days, madam minister, put figures behind your proposals. this is good news and we hope that you will show ambition but also realism in this exercise which, we admit, is perilous for a presidency. i can assure you that whatever your proposal is, it will cause discontent among the member states and also among the members present. to answer this equation, which is undoubtedly difficult, there is only one possible way - i have just mentioned it - namely, that of ambition and realism. it is the way parliament has chosen to make its position clear. first, ambitions are easily shared; these include the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy, the union's flagship programmes such as erasmus or horizon 2020 for research, new challenges in defence, migration, innovation, security and digital, respect for the rule of law and, of course, the challenge of climate change. secondly, there are two ways of being realistic: that of certain member states, who want to do more with less, and that of parliament, which considers that any new initiative must be accompanied by additional budgetary resources. the aim is simple: to ensure the quality and effectiveness of european public policies. let me say, madam minister, that realism is more on the side of parliament, because parliament is certainly very ambitious for the europeans. it is precisely because we have this ambition that we are pressing ahead with the own resources issue. today, the predominance of national contributions feeds the logic of fair return and ignores the european added value. with the own resources, we could not only limit this flawed strategy but also support and strengthen the union's policies through a mechanism of incentive revenue. this is what is called in france "making two with one stone".
the session is resumed at 3:04 p.m.
the debate on the report by monika hohlmeier and eider gardiazabal rubial on the joint draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2020 (a9-0035/2019) is closed. please note that it is possible to apply for the 'catch the eye' and 'blue card' cards either through the traditional registration or through the electronic system. the instructions are available at the entrance to the hemiciclo.
president budg. - mr president, last week we reached agreement on the 2020 budget after intense discussions between the council and parliament, with the commission's role in the whole process of course very much appreciated. the result of these days of discussions and joint efforts is that we have come to a budget which is forward-looking and meets the expectations of the citizens, taking account of budgetary constraints and budgetary discipline, which must certainly be respected at european level as well. it is a strong, forward-looking budget, one which - and this is very important at this stage - is the bridge to a next multiannual financial plan in which we must continue to work resolutely on the europe of the 21st century. because it seems pretty obvious to me right now, as we look around in the world: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one. we are making a major shift over the coming year towards investment in areas where the eu adds value, such as research and development and energy infrastructure. it also reinforces highly sought-after programmes that have clearly proven their effectiveness, such as erasmus, horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility. the budget also paid due attention to security and migration in order to meet the demands of the european citizens. we must dare to go forward in the same direction in the same way. we must choose a budget that does take into account in an explicit, clear and penetrating way the needs that our citizens are expressing, a budget that once again, the points where europe can absolutely add value compared to the national level commitment to innovation, competitiveness, climate, infrastructure, security and migration management. as chairman of the committee on budgets, i would also like to thank all those who were involved in the drafting and the final agreement, first of all the rapporteurs, mrs monika hohlmeier and mrs eider gardiazabal, but also mr kimmo tiilikainen, state secretary of the finnish presidency. behind these people is a whole battery of employees who have also all - i have experienced it for the first time and with great pleasure - worked with a lot of dedication and perseverance. of course, i must also mention commissioner günther oettinger and his staff, who have contributed more than their fair share to the final result, of which i am very proud - at least as chairman of the committee on budgets. what i think we can learn from the process we have been through in the last two weeks is that it does make a lot of sense to talk to each other in an open, direct way, to make clear to each other what the respective parties are up to, and then to reach a compromise on the basis of that clarity. there is nothing so difficult as to reach a compromise when the starting points are unclear. i think that perhaps the great merit of the parties involved in these discussions was that from the very beginning it was very clear what the objectives were, where they wanted to go so that there was room to reach a compromise. i think that has been done successfully. once again, thank you very much to all those involved.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, finnish presidency, mr kimmo tiilikainen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by thanking you. a big thank you - excuse me at the beginning - to my colleagues on the negotiating team, in particular to johan van overtveldt, to eider gardiazabal rubial, who were able to negotiate directly with me, but also to my shadow rapporteurs and to the coordinators. clotilde is looking at me, and you, dear colleague andresen, are looking at me too. we've really tried to work together, to communicate with each other here. we have agreed on common positions. i thank kimmo tiilikainen for trying to negotiate fairly with us after we had a hard fight at the beginning, and we had common priorities and now he is also funding those common priorities. the fact that parliament would have liked to have had more is clear. it is also clear that some in the council would have liked to have had less. but i think we've reached a good compromise. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. we have been able to increase the budget lines dealing with climate protection by a total of eur 504 million. over 21% of spending is climate-related, and we are clearly over the 20% target, but we still have a lot of work to do to get to 25% or even higher. horizon 2020 will see an increase of 8.8%. i must say quite frankly that i was a little baffled to read the unilateral statement by the countries which voted against - denmark, the netherlands, austria and sweden in particular - which stated that, firstly, there was not enough margin and, secondly, that it was far beyond what was necessary. i have to say that horizon 2020 has so many programmes that are completely over-subscribed, where we can only fund 7 or 8% of the programmes at all. i therefore simply cannot understand such a statement and i am grateful to all the member states who share this compromise with us. the fact that there are no margins is simply wrong. we have a margin of eur 1,5 billion for 2020 alone and instruments from the past two years amounting to eur 4,2 billion. i think we have really met the council's requirements in this respect too. but it was also important for us to support the climate change issue in the cef energy with eur 96 million, the cef transport with eur 37 million, the european satellite systems, which are also essential in climate research, erasmus youth exchange with eur 50 million more, for a total of eur 2.9 billion and a gain of 3.6%, the youth employment initiative with eur 28.3 million and, if necessary, with another eur 50 million from june. we were able to boost life, not as much as we would have liked, but at least. but we have not left out security issues either - the eppo issue, a little more europol - in other words, we have put the money where it is needed. we've been in the media, in coal regions in transition, to answer key climate change questions there as well. i think we've got a solid package all round. i would like to thank the honourable members for their support and the presidency of the council and the commission for the successful conclusion of the negotiations.
the rapporteur. mr president, the truth is that when we started these negotiations we had very different positions and there was certainly nothing to suggest that we could reach an agreement. when we talked about priorities, it is true that the council and parliament were talking about the same priorities, but when we translated those priorities into figures we came to a difference of 4.5 billion euros. we had two days of intense negotiations, friday and monday. we were already at the limit and, in the end, we managed to reach an agreement. and above all - and i think this is the most important thing - we managed to send a very clear message about what the priorities were for the future of the european union and, above all, how we were going to finance them. and this agreement we reached has enabled us to reinforce key lines with more than 850 million euros in those priorities on which we agreed. for example, the horizon 2020 programme - the largest research programme of the european union - we increased it by 8.8% compared to 2019. i think this is a good sign for the whole scientific community, and also that one in five euros of this budget is going to be allocated to the fight against climate change. we are a long way from the objectives we have set ourselves, but at least we are showing the way forward. and of course, we send a very clear message to young people, because we have reinforced two policies that are directly aimed at them. we have improved the funding of erasmus - one of the european union's most beloved programmes - and we have also managed to put the youth guarantee programme back on the table. we have managed to allocate 145 million euros for 2020 and, in addition, an extra 50 million euros if necessary, because the programme is working well. the truth is that there is not much to say about other sections, which was the part i had to negotiate, although i think we have maintained a fairly balanced agreement and at least we have not cut the budgets of the other institutions. so, at least, i think this will allow them to carry out their work in a dignified way. in short, i think this is a very positive agreement for the european union, but as always, there is a but in all this. i think we cannot fall into complacency, because we are far from the objectives which i think we have to put on the table for the european union. we are a long way from the 1.3% for the financial framework that this parliament is calling for and with which we would really have a budget strong enough to mark a turning point in european policies and, above all, to lead certain policies such as the fight against climate change, which really needs a boost from the european union. and i want to end by saying thank you. of course, to the negotiating team of the european parliament, with the president at the head and the rapporteur, mrs hohlmeier, who defended tooth and nail the position of this parliament; to the commissioner and his whole team - it was his last budget, but i think he leaves an important legacy in his work and i want to give him a very special acknowledgement - and, above all, to the finnish presidency and to kimmo tiilikainen, because i think he has been a very tough negotiator, but also very empathetic to the positions that we both institutions were defending. and he told us a story that i'm not going to repeat here because i don't have time. but in the end, we did manage to save that dog who was in danger at the time. and i think that story, which can be an anecdote in the negotiations, has been the one that brought the two negotiating teams together and the one that made us, finally, get this agreement. so thank you very much. they have been a perfect example of how budgets have to be negotiated.
mrs eider, it is not every day that we see so many greetings to the representatives of all the institutions at a negotiation.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, it’s my pleasure to attend today the european parliament’s debate on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2020. i would like to express the council’s satisfaction with the agreement reached by the conciliation committee on 18 november – the last day of the conciliation period – after long and intense discussions. the positive outcome of the negotiations shows that our three institutions can work efficiently in a spirit of good cooperation. together, we negotiated a budget for 2020 which responds to today’s concerns and tomorrow’s needs of europe’s citizens. the european parliament and the council have worked hard to find a solution that would equip the union for the challenges of the last year of the multiannual financial framework (mff). the deal we reached reflects strongly our common priorities – climate action, growth and competitiveness, research and digitalisation, young people, security and migration. this year we have made a considerable effort to strengthen the climate relevance of the eu budget and get as close as possible to fulfilling the union’s 20% climate target to be reached by 2020. to this aim, we have reinforced relevant programmes in the area of research and development, transport and energy infrastructure and the eu’s external action. additional funds have also been allocated to the life programme. in order to improve the situation of young people and help them integrate into the labour market, we have agreed to dedicate eur 145 million to the youth employment initiative. the other successful programme, providing opportunities for young europeans to study, train and gain experience abroad, erasmus+, will see an increase of 3.6%. furthermore, programmes and projects supporting competitiveness increased by 7.9% compared with 2019. this means more funds for horizon 2020, the european satellite navigation systems, egnos and galileo, and the energy and transport strands of the connecting europe facility. in the area of migration and security, a number of key eu agencies, such as frontex, easa, europol and eurojust, will be endowed with additional staff and funding in view of their in-house mandates. in addition, we have provided ourselves with more means to tackle the root causes of migration and step up the eu’s engagement with our neighbours to the east and the south. while posting support for eu flagship programmes, we have at the same time applied a prudent and responsible approach in line with sound financial management. the council insisted on such an approach during the whole budgetary procedure and has continuously stressed the need to take into account financial realities at national level. the final result achieved on 18 november foresees a 1.5% increase in the global level of commitments compared with 2019. the remaining margin of eur 1.5 billion under expenditure ceilings of the mff will allow us to cope with next year’s contingencies and uncertainties. in this way, we have together established a realistic budget for 2020, which is focused on a maximum european added value for money and takes fully into account taxpayers’ interests and concerns. in our official meetings in the course of the year, as well as during our informal contacts, i very much appreciated the positive atmosphere that prevailed in our talks. both sides of the table were ready to engage constructively to reach an agreement to reframe the discussion around shared interests and come up with solutions. i am glad to inform you that after the successful outcome of the conciliation committee, the joint text was formally approved by the council yesterday. the council expects the european parliament to also approve the joint text tomorrow. the general budget for the financial year 2020 will then be adopted within the deadline foreseen by the treaties. coming to the end of my intervention, i would like to thank the chairman of the european parliament’s committee on budgets, mr johan van overtveldt, and the rapporteurs, ms monika hohlmeier and ms eider gardiazabal rubial, for their positive and open attitude and for the good cooperation during the last weeks and months. your hard work and enthusiasm can be highly commended. together we saved the day. i would also like to extend my special thanks to you, commissioner oettinger – gunther – for your contribution to our negotiations for the last time. mr president, honourable members, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attention.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. on the one hand, we had a starting point with a very good chance of reaching agreement, because the priorities of parliament and the council were the same: firstly, investments in research, innovation and the future of europe; secondly, measures to combat climate change; and thirdly, the fight against unemployment, job creation, especially for the young generation. on the one hand, a common starting point, on the other hand, the differences from the commission's proposal - what was to be invested in these priorities - amounted to eur 2.7 billion more for parliament and eur 1.5 billion less for the council, i.e. a difference of eur 4.2 billion. this was a starting point with a greater difference than in previous years' budgetary consultations. the parliament wanted to invest as much as possible of the available funds up to the ceiling in the last financial year of the financial framework, the council wanted to do what i thought was right to a certain extent, to create room for manoeuvre, to create margins for the unforeseen in 2020 or for the foreseeable, to fund the dignity of refugees currently living in turkey, for the foreseeable, but not yet taken into account in the commission's budget proposal. the willingness and sense of responsibility of all involved was good. i thank the chairman of the committee for his sovereign moderation, and i thank the two rapporteurs for their expertise and their coordination with important members of the committee on budgets, so that in the end a majority of members from many political groups was achieved. and i thank the representative of the council presidency, mr tiilikainen, who, although i think he has followed the council's line firmly, has always been interested in a result, in a compromise solution, and has worked very constructively towards that at every turn. the press wrote of dramatic meetings in the last hour, but it was not so dramatic. i think it has already been shown that the leaders did not want to see it fail, but were interested in an agreement. the numbers speak for themselves: on the one hand we have not touched the ceilings in any way, but have respected them, on the other hand we have margins, room for manoeuvre of eur 1.5 billion in commitments in total with other instruments of flexibility of eur 4.2 billion and are thus prepared for what may be added to the european union in the next year in terms of further tasks and expenditure. on climate change, we have significantly exceeded the 20% target in the 2020 budget with a percentage of 21.1%, thus offsetting a significant part of the shortfalls caused by too little investment in 2014 and 2015. we have horizon 2020 at its peak in terms of investment from the european research and innovation budget of 13.5 billion, an increase of 8.8% compared to 2019. i would advise all those involved to take this maximum level of funding for research under horizon 2020 as the starting point for horizon europe and not to underestimate it, because it is here that economic strength, competitiveness, investment in technologies for sustainability and climate protection are visible. this step, which is primarily due to parliament, was therefore a decisive step in this budget in the transition to the discussions on the post-2020 budgetary framework, with a further eur 300 million. connecting europe facility: energy significantly increased, plus 35%, transport moderately increased. this means that we are already investing in the future and creating added value, which can best be realised at european level. we have at least a 4% increase in erasmus+ - a small step towards doubling or tripling, if parliament and mrs von der leyen are taken as the benchmark, in the budget years of the next decade. we have also made some measured cuts, which i think are justifiable in practice, and we have made some measured but important reinforcements in europol, eurojust and the eppo, the prosecutor's office, so that these instruments and bodies for internal security and the rule of law in europe and the fight against corruption are more capable of acting. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget, but it is not yet in a position to make a decision on the budget. the commission is satisfied with this budget. it is a good basis for the implementation of the budget of the von der leyen commission. i would like to thank all those involved in this matter: the council, mr tiilikainen, the rapporteurs and the committee chairman. i would simply ask you to bring that momentum into the discussions on the multiannual financial framework. if the ministers had met in the general affairs council for as long as we have met, with work intensity over two weeks until late at night at 11 p.m., with this intensity of work and not just two hours a month and the same line to take, there would be movement in the budgetary framework. i hope, as a citizen, to read very early next year that the council and parliament will be able to achieve a breakthrough for a modern framework for the budget for the next decade, and that this will not happen in one year during advent. the good experience of your discussions on the draft budget for 2020 would have been a lesson in terms of a timely budgetary framework for the next decade and thus added value that can only be achieved at european level. thank you to everyone involved. (applause from the centre)
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to greet all my colleagues and to send a special greeting and at the same time to thank the rapporteur, monika hohlmeier, eider gardiazabal, commissioner oettinger and also mr tiilikainen, the president of the council. this team also counted on a super-united parliament, a parliament where the moderate and pro-european political groups gave their consent to this budget. i am therefore also grateful to the shadow rapporteurs and all the staff of parliament, to the commissioner for all the work he has done and also for the reinforcement of the finnish presidency once again. here's a good foreshadowing: we have left and they have left a good example of the way to be followed. when the institutions work together, they can reach agreements which are very positive and this is a good omen for the next multiannual financial framework, and here too parliament will be super-united, and we hope that the council, too, can unite and get closer to parliament. this is a budget which gives priority to the climate, research and innovation, and i would like to highlight eur 302 million in reinforcement and reinforcement, in particular, for the fight against cancer, which does not forget young people, the youth employment initiative, the reinforcement of erasmus + and which also gives priority to competitiveness. a budget that is also a challenge for the member states, and here is a request to all the member states: the commission has already taken a number of measures to speed up the implementation of the funds. the implementation of cohesion policy funds is, i do not want to say the word shame, but it is very low. the proof is that the 2020 budget payments are at 0.9%, below 1% of gni. and finally, i would like to say that this budget is, as always, an investment budget, a budget where only 7% is for administrative expenditure and 93% is for investment expenditure, and which benefits all the member states.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, my friends johan, monika, eider and josé manuel have said it: this is a good agreement, this is a good budget in our very limited framework. we've done a good job, this is the best budget possible. i thank rasmus and clotilde, commissioner oettinger and minister tiilikainen for the hard negotiations that led to this agreement. beyond this annual budget, however, i think we are all asking the same questions. what is our ambition for europe? what do we really want for our future and that of our children? if we had a big ambition, we'd have a big budget. when kennedy said, "we choose to go to the moon", he really decided and he put the budget into it. nasa's budget increased 15 times in five years, 400,000 jobs were created, and the united states reached the moon faster than expected. today, the goal is not to go to the moon but to save the earth, at least to save humanity on earth, and we all know that this budget is totally insufficient. we all talk about the green new deal in reference to the new deal of roosevelt, it's a very nice image. but when roosevelt came to power, he gave himself the means for a real new deal that would create millions of jobs and give hope to the american people. roosevelt triples the federal budget in a few years, and it works. in a few years, to win the war, roosevelt will increase the entire federal budget by four times. in total, by the time roosevelt was old and paralyzed, the federal budget would be increased twelvefold. it finances it first through taxation - taxation on the richest and on profits - and then through another use of money creation. were kennedy and roosevelt crazy? did they ruin the united states? of course you didn't. they were great leaders who had a real plan for their country and had given themselves the means to break taboos and find funding. they did not harm their country, but instead they gave hope to millions of people. what are we waiting for in europe today? once again, this budget is good within the constraints, and the socialist group is looking forward to voting for it. but we have to go further. to win the climate battle we have all been talking about, the european commission itself says that we are missing 300 billion a year if we stick to the target of reducing co2 emissions by only 40%. but since our objective - thanks to ursula von der leyen - is more ambitious, since we all agree to halve co2 emissions in the next ten years, the need for funding is obviously necessary. we're at least 400 billion dollars short every year to win the climate battle. we applaud the european investment bank, which says it's going to stop fossil fuel investments and double its climate loans, that's very good. but that's only 15 billion more each year, when we need 400. i think, therefore, dear friends, that we must find new ways. i hope this is the last year we vote in such a constrained environment. nothing would be worse than a green deal without real funding, it would be green washing. nothing would be worse than a green deal with unfair funding. we would then have thousands, if not millions of yellow vests in all corners of europe. it is absolutely essential to find much more ambitious and fairer funding very quickly. why not take up jacques delors' idea? the latter said that intra-european tax competition should be tackled. when i was a kid, the average income tax rate was 45 percent. today, it has fallen to 19%. the tax on profits has been cut in half while, on the contrary, profits are exploding. if we want to have a bigger budget without asking for more money from ordinary citizens and member states, it is time to move very quickly on own resources.
mr president, i would first like to thank all those involved in the intensive negotiations that have taken place in recent weeks, namely commissioner oettinger, secretary of state tiilikainen, our rapporteurs monica hohlmeier and eider gardiazabal and, for the renew group, clotilde armand and olivier chastel. i thank you for your commitment and your determination, and i thank the other colleagues who have contributed to this agreement. this year, the climate issue was at the heart of our concerns. this is how we have obtained an increase of €500 million compared to the first draft budget for programmes contributing to climate protection, but also €300 million for research, €130 million for the interconnection of our energy and transport networks, not to mention €50 million for erasmus. this is undoubtedly a good agreement for parliament, for europe. the citizens have given us a clear mandate for the union to protect them and secure their future. according to a recent opinion poll, climate change has become the second most important concern of citizens across the european union. this agreement shows them that we share this concern, but above all we prove to them that we are a vital link for greater action in this area. this week, the european parliament is showing that it is a key player for our planet. i would like to express one regret, however. despite these strong efforts, we will fall short of the target of 20% of climate spending for the period 2014-2020. it's a failure. the union has failed to live up to its commitments. however, at our insistence, the commission said that it would redirect money not used in certain programmes to climate lines. i will therefore support the commission, together with our whole renew europe group, to do everything possible to get as close as possible to that 20%. we'll see to it.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. just three thoughts at the end. firstly, in response to the spontaneous statement by the honourable member, we have increased the connecting europe facility for energy by a large majority. the energy sector is not primarily concerned with lng terminals, but with the energy infrastructure as a whole. europe's energy policy has always been based on three objectives: first, sustainability and thus climate protection; second, security of supply; and third, affordability of energy. in recent years, it has been a considerable goal, an expectation of countries such as poland, latvia, lithuania or estonia, that these countries will not be 100% dependent on gas from the russian federation, on gazprom, as long as they need gas for heating and electricity. that's why we need to diversify routes and sources. now the new parliament has to decide so you: what role should gas play in europe's energy mix in 2020, 2030, 2040 and 2050? my guess is, as long as we're cutting off coal, gas will be increasing in importance over the next 10 to 15 years, decreasing after that. green also has a vision: why not produce green gas in africa from solar installations, which is fed into the gas grid at lng terminals in europe and thus play a role in the energy mix of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow in a climate-neutral and sustainable way? the decision is yours, in the next parliament. the majority of the money goes into cross-border electricity lines and infrastructure to complete the internal energy market and to bring renewables where they are needed, renewable electricity for example, wind power from ireland through england into the european union. we will decide on the specific projects at a later stage, but given the length of the list of applications, more funds are certainly appropriate. i would like to thank the finnish presidency once again for the second and last point. why would you do that? we have reduced the budgetary appropriations for administration by an amendment because next year the salaries will only increase slightly. and that you, mr tiilikainen, did not use the reflex of previous years, namely to ask again at the last second for eur 5 or 10 million in cuts to heading 5, was sovereign. thank you very much. you can be sure that this will not lead to any exaggeration by all the institutions - parliament, the court of auditors, the commission, the european schools, etc. - but we will be looking very closely at what is needed to run europe properly in the coming year and years. a final thought: if you, honourable members, vote in favour of this 2020 budget tomorrow, it will be the first major decision of the new parliament, apart from the election of the president and others. let me ask you something . on the issue of 'what role do the top candidates play?' 'functional, not the people' you did not get a majority. the fact that you have now achieved a large majority is encouraging to us all, and my advice is: keep the objective of achieving a large majority on the target line for the budgetary framework for the next decade. then this 2020 budget may have been a good blueprint for the next seven years. thank you.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like to thank the house for this constructive exchange of views and also for picking up a great number of valuable details that the budget contains. the discussion has shown that we are united in our commitment to build a better working europe to the benefit of all our citizens. the negotiations on the 2020 budget took place under complex and uncertain circumstances. in spite of this, we worked together with a very good spirit and found a way to reconcile our positions. i am convinced that the agreement reached on the budget for 2020 is a good and balanced compromise, allowing the union to adequately finance our common priorities and different programmes. i thank you once more for your attention and wish you success in tomorrow’s vote to finalise our important work.
president. - mr president, i think it is a fairly accurate summary of the speeches we have heard today that there is a clear majority in this house in favour of the compromise reached on the budget. i 've also often heard it said: 'it could have been better' - and that is true, of course, but it is true for any budget in any circumstances at any time. every budget is a compromise. each budget falls short of individual priorities or priorities of certain groups or of all groups separately. so in that sense, that's the fate of every budget. but again, i have found that there is a large majority, which is of course a welcome finding as chairman of the committee on budgets. this comes at a pivotal moment for europe. the whole world is in motion as seldom before: china, the us, geopolitical movements, technology, the climate... the list could go on and on. it is of the utmost importance that europe should be firmly in its shoes here. without doing so in an explicit way, europe will become a footnote in history and i think that everyone here wants to prevent that in a constructive way. if europe is to make a stand, it also needs resources and an efficient use of resources. those two are irrevocably linked. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financial perspective for the period 1994 to 1999 is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i hope that we can do so in an atmosphere of mutual trust and respectful openness, as we have been able to do with the last discussions in the framework of the conciliation procedure, and the great credit for this goes to the rapporteurs, monika and eider, certainly also to the finnish presidency, kimmo and his team, but certainly also to someone whom we are saying goodbye to today - as we say in flanders, with our feet hanging - commissioner oettinger. i can't stress it enough. his contribution, and that of his team, to the compromise reached last week was very great, for which, once again, my dear günther, i express my deepest appreciation.
in writing. a well-structured eu budget is of vital importance to the people of our countries. this is important for the development of the new member states. the problem of equalising the opportunities and living standards of the so-called old and new union should therefore be taken into account in the first place. more attention to agriculture and unduly reduced subsidies to farmers in new countries such as lithuania must be given, and this situation must be changed. in addition, the youth employment initiative should be supported. cooperation in the european field of youth and the participation of young people in european social life should be promoted and improved. the development, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of eu employment policy, social policy and eu working conditions legislation also deserve support. the same applies to assistance to member states in the event of major natural disasters which have a significant impact on living conditions, the environment or the economy. but the main objective should be to provide budget support for activities that protect the health and lives of our citizens. therefore, more efforts should be made to promote health promotion and prevention. particular attention should be paid to the fight against and the management of cancer, disability and functional limitations, for example through the transfer of knowledge for clinical practice and innovation activities, through better use of medical data. first, the lives and health of people, and second, the economy.
member of the commission. – mr president, climate change is real and its impacts are all too real. extreme weather events are happening more frequently, and unfortunately with greater intensity. droughts and forest fires are no longer confined to the mediterranean, as we saw in sweden last year; tropical hurricanes travel up to the coast of ireland; heavy rain and flash floods occur across europe. the floods affecting venice are yet another tragic example, causing immense damage to venice, its people and their livelihoods – also to the cultural heritage of italy, of europe and of humanity as a whole. the european union has developed tools to provide assistance once natural disasters have occurred. from prevention and preparedness to the recovery phase. on prevention and preparedness, the commission supports the development and improvement of eu early warning and information systems. for example, projects funded under horizon 2020 are improving the prediction of the impact of heavy rain and snowfall on roads. for floods specifically, the european flood awareness system (efas) offers the latest available information on floods in europe. the commission also provides guidelines and encourages member states to compile national risk assessments, which are an essential tool to fight the impact of floods. for the immediate response in the event of a disaster, our european civil protection mechanism and the new upgrade resceu structure can be activated at the request of the affected countries to support them in their response to floods. recent examples include the 2013 support following extensive floods in central europe and the 2014 floods in serbia and bosnia and herzegovina, where extensive response capacities were deployed, including rescue helicopters and boats, teams of experts and response modules. to be noted that in the aftermath of disastrous forest fires in 2017, the european union, as i already said, adopted resceu. it is a safety net to support our member states when they are overwhelmed by natural disasters. for the recovery phase, you know very well that the eu solidarity fund intervenes to assist the population in the recovery of essential infrastructure, in clean-up operations and in the safeguarding of the cultural heritage. now, turning to the eu response to the floods affecting the region of venice. the european commission, through its copernicus emergency satellite mapping system – a very sophisticated and excellent system – has already produced high-quality maps to assess the extent of floods in northeast italy. these products are provided free of charge to any affected country, and are used extensively by our member states. also, the eu emergency response coordination centre (ercc) has also been in regular contact with the italian authorities and continues to closely monitor the situation. the commission stands ready to support italy through the european union civil protection mechanism if needed. so far, we have not received any requests for support. also, for the recovery phase, the solidarity fund could be activated in case total direct damage exceeds a threshold of 1.5% of regional gdp, which in the case of the veneto region means damage exceeding eur 2.3 billion. this is our regulation, these are our rules. the commission has established direct contact with the italian authorities and is providing guidance and advice on a possible application through the solidarity fund. at this stage, it is too early to know the exact extent of the damage on which the possible mobilisation of the solidarity fund and the amount of assistance would depend. but we must do more. what happened in venice is, unfortunately, an example of what is to come as climate change develops. we must be proactive, and this is why in recent years the commission has been putting an increased focus on prevention, climate adaptation and risk management policies. here i would like to say that i am really proud of our common achievement to establish resceu in which one of the most important pillars is prevention and preparedness, and i think we have to continue in this way. i am sure that the next commission will continue in this way because it is the only way to deal with the new phenomena due to climate change.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commission and commissioner stylianides for the commitment which the commission has shown in helping the people affected by the bad weather in recent weeks in spain, france and italy in particular. i also thank commissioner hahn for his commitment to helping the people and the affected areas, but also the cultural heritage affected, because venice has suffered enormous damage, veneto, trentino alto adige, but also the city of matera - which is this year's european capital of culture - has been the victim of the bad weather. most of the cities of liguria are isolated at this time, including genoa and savona. i spoke to the mayor of savona a little while ago, i spoke to the mayor of venice. bridges have collapsed, roads are closed, the region bordering france is virtually isolated, ports are blocked and there is enormous damage to the economy. that is why we need strong solidarity from the european union. economic proximity but also a commitment to try to prevent everything that happens in a country where most municipalities - i am referring to italy - are born in areas of high hydrogeological risk. over 80% of italian municipalities, 81.9% of italian municipalities, are located in areas of high hydrogeological risk, and therefore strong prevention activities are needed. in venice, the presence of the sea also threatens the historical and cultural heritage, since salt water erodes the foundations. that is why more needs to be done and i hope that italy, the italian government and the regions will demand a strong commitment from the european commission's solidarity fund and thus use the available funds. we as the european people's party have asked the european commission to set up a fund for the protection of europe's damaged cultural heritage and to prevent any damage caused by bad weather, so even stronger action in the next community budget. i therefore agree with you and hope that the next european commission, which we will vote on tomorrow, will continue on the path chosen by the present commission but invest even more in cultural and infrastructural prevention in areas of high hydrogeological risk, which are not only in my country but also in central europe, spain and france.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. of course, it has always been the case that in autumn it rains and rains a lot, but today we are dealing with a new phenomenon, climate change, which is increasing the frequency and intensity of extreme weather events. the sooner we learn to deal with it, the better. our cities are the most at risk, because that is where most of the european population lives. it is our duty to protect human lives and our historical and cultural heritage first and foremost, because in europe we have the honour of hosting almost 400 unesco sites. a wealth that every european feels is his or her own and for which he or she is prepared to mobilize, as happened in the 1966 flood in florence, when boys and girls, later called "mud angels", came from all over the continent to save the works of art, manifesting a first form of european civicism. the question then is: what can europe do? increasing the european solidarity fund is necessary but not sufficient any more, just as ex post mechanisms are not sufficient. we can't always act later in the damage account. we must prevent catastrophic effects first, and that is what i want to focus on. let's start by saying that we've built too much and badly in our cities. we must start from a great cultural battle, even before it is an environmental one, on consumption and soil protection and put the debate on the need for a specific european union directive back at the centre. in addition, tragedies are avoided by doing environmental mitigation work: you don't wait for the river to run out, but you build the expansion boxes and the waterworks. the sustainable investment plan, which we are expecting from president von der leyen, must therefore include a specific chapter on hydrogeological prevention. finally, it is time to start a serious discussion on the possibility of discounting green investment from the deficit-gdp calculation of the stability and growth pact. the european union must show its citizens that it is capable of defining an agenda and putting it into practice in the face of extreme weather events. the socialist and democratic group will not fail to do its part.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, venice is sinking today. the phenomenon of acqua alta is intensifying, floods are multiplying, becoming more frequent and higher. why would you do that? because for too long we have not respected the identity of this city that has made the sea its wall. the lagoon is no longer protective because it is no longer protected. in 2016, europa nostra already ranked the venice lagoon first among the most endangered sites in europe. if nothing is done to finally complete the floating dikes project which was planned for 2001, unesco will remove venice from the world heritage list. for sixty years, the venetian lagoon has been blighted by oversized shipping to allow the passage of tankers and also to promote mass tourism. but if the heritage is lost, so is the tourist manna. we europeans have the opportunity to save venice and, in the future, to protect endangered sites. let us therefore make the protection of our cultural heritage an integral part of the european green deal. europe has already achieved successes, such as mont saint-michel. the european union, through the regional development fund, has allocated 10 million euros to restore the maritime character of the site, by including it in a sustainable tourism approach. preserving cultural heritage also means protecting the ecosystems in which it is found, and promoting the development of responsible tourism that will ensure the maintenance of activity and employment. today, our priority must be to save venice. it is a project of union for all europeans, but it is also a global responsibility.
i have to say, madam president, in fact, the north of italy - and the region i come from - has also been hit by severe storms in recent weeks. this is just one year after the storm vaia passed over the same region and, fortunately, with the support of the european solidarity fund, the main damage was repaired. the fact is that we in the mountains are used to dealing with extreme weather conditions and know what to do. it must also be said that if the damage has been contained in the last few days, it is also thanks to the thousands of volunteers - the fire brigades, the civil protection units - who worked day and night to bring electricity and water back to the people and to try to control the worst damage. but the city of venice is, of course, a symbol of europe. i think it is also the european union's responsibility to ensure that this symbol of venice - this very special city - is put back in order and that the damage done to it is also repaired. but i also think -- as many of my previous speakers have said -- that we also need to think long-term. we must consider how much more we can invest in civil protection. i would remind you that one euro invested in civil protection saves four euros in repairing the damage. but we must also ensure that people stay on the mountain, especially in the mountains. the miners, the people who live there, are responsible for the land, for the area. that is why we need an active policy for people living in rural areas.
madam president, in recent days we have been very affected by the events - floods, rescues, floods - that have occurred in venice and on all the mediterranean coasts most exposed to the elements. the images of these weather events are striking and show us the need to put in place more effective response mechanisms to deal with natural disasters and protect our cultural heritage. in france, the heavy rains that fell this weekend across the region caused enormous damage. last weekend i was on a mission and i came home on sunday night to my town, villeneuve-loubet in the alpes-maritimes, which was completely flooded. the area was hit by a heavy rainfall on saturday night and residents were surprised by a sudden rise in water levels. despite the existence of a catchment basin, the wolf river in my village flooded at an impressive rate, causing significant flooding. we cannot ignore the fact that, as a result of global warming, the temperature of the mediterranean sea has risen, which increases the frequency and intensity of storms. in the face of these events, cultural heritage is increasingly exposed to natural disasters. appropriate measures are needed to reduce the risk of disaster. an integrated view of cultural heritage is therefore needed to assess the risks faced by heritage sites before and after a disaster. integrated disaster risk management also involves appropriate mitigation and adaptation strategies. for example, unlimited urban sprawl and the artificial use of soils, which make them less permeable, must be curbed. in conclusion, there is still room to defend our regions and their cultural heritage in the face of climate change, but governments must provide more resources to protect their citizens and implement strategic flood-resilient management plans.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here again to talk about natural disasters. we are faced with the enormous damage to the historical, cultural and archaeological heritage of matera and venice. there are huge economic losses for businesses and citizens. the european solidarity fund will be used, but the union's civil protection mechanism, the clause which the european commission has at its disposal in the budget law, can and must be used in these cases. they're useful tools, but now we need to reverse the perspective, the vision. we must move beyond the logic of emergency and act structurally on prevention and causes. in december 2016, this assembly approved a motion for a resolution and an amendment, proposed by the 5 star movement, which called for and approved by a large majority the need to exclude from the calculation of the deficit, within the framework of the stability and growth pact, investments for sustainable reconstruction and for anti-seismic prevention, including the european structural funds. so there can be no green new deal without recognising the hydrogeological disaster as a priority, and above all without recognising and facing concretely with the facts the fight against climate change, which is there and exists, and which some people, on the other hand, continue to forage for or even deny, but finance investments in fossil sources.
madam president, i would like to start my address by expressing my condolences to all the families of the loved ones who lost their lives in today’s earthquake in albania. unfortunately, a few weeks ago, venice made it into the headlines following massive floods and, unfortunately, this is yet another disaster which we have to address. i hereby call on the commission for a speedy procedure in order to trigger the solidarity fund and targeted erdf support. i believe that, in order to prevent such things, we should invest in prevention more than recovering from such disasters. i believe that the european union should have relations just like in a marriage so it should be there in good and bad times. when somebody falls to the ground, there should be a hand to pick him up. these hands will be the european commission and the european parliament for italy.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i think it's important that we take this opportunity to talk not just about extreme weather as such, but also to connect it to the global warming that we're seeing and the climate emergency that europe and the world are in right now. extreme weather can take many forms, but the damage done to venice in recent weeks has hit the heart of europe particularly hard. venice, with its unique cultural influences from west to east, which have been interwoven over many years and centuries of history and have helped to make this city unique. it is one of the most beautiful cities known to many in europe, a city beloved not only in italy but throughout europe, and part of our world cultural heritage. it is clear that we feel very strongly on behalf of the european parliament with all the people affected and with the city as such. i myself come from a country where we have been hit by fires as a result of the drought and the warming we see in the world. in my country, sweden, there have been fires and forest fires, which have threatened many people and cities, as well as nature, economic values and jobs. it is important that we act decisively in the face of these extreme weather events. of course, this is about climate policy and long-term prevention policy, but it is also about urgently helping and making sure that we build resilience where we see that cities and people can be affected. it is not just about fires, floods, hurricanes or droughts, but about global warming, which we must tackle and about europe's determination to act. the temperature increases we're facing right now mean we're going to see a lot more of this. i would therefore like to call on my colleagues to vote in favour of the climate emergency which we also have on the table for this week's partsession.
madam president, as a member of the committee on culture and education, i would like to draw your attention once again to what is happening today in venice and the region, but unfortunately also elsewhere. we all saw this very significant flood that reached 187 cm, the historical record since 1966. no, mrs. zalewska, this flood is not ordinary. damage is estimated to be over €1 billion, and every day spent underwater causes significant damage to buildings. according to experts, st. mark's basilica is aging by 20 years every day of flooding. this flood and natural disaster phenomenon is reaching other regions in italy, such as basilicata, matera, european capital of culture 2019, and many other countries around the world. several findings emerge. firstly, it is clear that exceptional climatic phenomena are increasing and that the whole mediterranean area is affected. by 2100, the sea level could rise by up to 140 cm, compared with 30 cm in the last century. the combination of natural and man-made factors is endangering ecosystems and the preservation of cultural heritage worldwide. poorly managed urban planning, mass tourism - especially in risk areas - and projects such as the moses dam, which are neither completed nor necessarily solutions, are all causes that could slow down the fight against rising water, the preservation of our cultural capital and the help to the inhabitants. that is why we are calling on the european union to release the solidarity fund as a matter of urgency, we are calling for research to be undertaken into ecological systems to prevent flooding and we are calling on the european union to take advantage of this event in order to preserve our world heritage. otherwise, it will all be gone.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, how did we get to this point? we are talking about an ignominy, an insult to the values of the european union, an insult to all those people who are discriminated against. how did we get to this point, in communes, shops, regions, just a few kilometres from camps where, 75 years ago, people were locked up because of their homosexuality, and where the nazi ideology, which also persecuted the polish people, organized the mass murders of these people? how can we tolerate europe making the same mistakes 75 years later? are we doomed to repeat the same mistakes over and over again in europe? ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about defending this or that community. we are simply here together to make the european community live.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a sticker with the rainbow flag and a thick black cross is the ominous symbol that is currently adorning many shops in poland, where some 20 cities have declared themselves lgbti-free, free of all lgbti. will we accept such a return of hatred on our continent or, on the contrary, will we do everything to send the far right and its racist obsessions back to their place, that is to say, to the dustbin of european history? it is time to stand up, to stand up to you, the promoters of this hatred. where you ban lgbt, we'll be there. wherever you go after muslims, jews, roma, any minority, we will be there. where you create anti-immigrant militias, like in hungary, where you hear monkey cries in the stadiums, like in italy, we will be there. wherever a person has to bow their head because of who they are, we will be there and we will face you. no one in europe should ever again bow their head to what it is.
it is more than a month since the beginning of this commercial retaliation against our agri-food products and above all against our excellences protected by european quality systems, and the union has still not taken any concrete countermeasures. the diplomatic approach which the european parliament will further strengthen this week by granting the united states a share of the tariff quota for imports of high-quality beef is certainly the way forward. but we cannot afford to wait any longer, commissioner malmström, and endanger the economic viability of a sector which, let us remember, is the largest industry in europe and employs 44 million people. the greater flexibility granted to our product promotion programmes, both in terms of duration, co-financing and markets, is therefore an important signal. we are, however, calling for the margins available in the union budget to be used to finance an increase in the funds devoted to these measures and to launch a genuine extraordinary promotion plan for our agri-food sector, with new measures also directed at the distribution chains. all this, mr commissioner, while remaining ready to use all the instruments available in the cap, as you have mentioned, to avoid triggering a market crisis, without waiting for the consequences to become irreversible for strategic sectors from the social, economic and environmental point of view. the future of our producers and the whole agri-food sector is at stake and only by putting in place concrete measures to support farmers and processors can we rise to the challenge.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, once again it is the farmers who are paying the bill for a trade conflict which does not concern them. the wto has settled the boeing-airbus dispute. the latter received undeclared subsidies of €6.8 billion per year. president donald trump has therefore intentionally chosen to tax european food products by 25%: french wines, italian cheeses, scottish whiskies, spanish olive oils, the list is not exhaustive. these invisible subsidies, which are never mentioned, have allowed this company to flourish. in april 2019, it made a cheque of €33 million to its ceo when he left office. in 2018, these disguised subsidies increased dividends paid to shareholders by 10%. the icing on the cake, airbus moved its headquarters to the netherlands to pay less tax. airbus therefore has the reins to support european farmers and the agricultural sector which are being pushed out of the american market overnight. i therefore ask the european commission to work towards the creation of a liability and solidarity fund, funded by the member states which are shareholders in this consortium and, of course, by airbus, which no one disputes is a jewel of our industry. i also propose that we use the european globalisation adjustment fund. this would be the first time that this possibility would be open to the agricultural sector, which has been hit hard by trade liberalisation, and which is in this particular case... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is not donald trump's plaything. after the wto arbitration in the airbus case, the us sanctions force us to react, first by fighting back, because there is nothing worse than accepting without saying anything. we must therefore prepare trade sanctions, since the wto is going to arbitrate in the boeing case. we must start now by refusing quotas for imports of american beef until a negotiated solution has been found with the united states. secondly, we must support our farmers, who are not responsible for this and do not have to bear the consequences of this situation. of course, cap funds must be mobilised immediately to help them, but it is time for the cap to be reformed so that our agriculture is more geared to local consumption, short circuits and food sovereignty objectives. finally, we must put an end to the hypocrisy of international trade policy. it is legitimate for our states to intervene to support our strategic industries and they will have to do so even more tomorrow to meet the challenge of the ecological transition. we therefore call on the commission, and we call on you, madam commissioner, to support a reform of the wto to end free and undistorted competition and to put social and environmental issues at the heart of trade policies.
madam president, the united states is imposing new tariffs on european products in response to the european union's subsidies to airbus. the european union is preparing corresponding measures. the fierce economic confrontation between the united states and the european union, which is being conducted with the aim of establishing which monopolies will prevail, will again be paid for by small and mediumsized farmers and workers, just as small peach growers in greece paid for the russian embargo in response to the sanctions of the european union. the new democracy government, like the previous syriza government, is celebrating that thanks to its alliances with the united states and the european union, greek olive oil has finally been exempted from customs duties. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis in the steel industry. it does not say that this year the price of olive oil for small producers has fallen to the ground and at the same time the european union has decided to stockpile it, that is to say to withdraw large quantities of olive oil from the market so that its price for consumption does not fall, so that the ordinary households can continue to buy it at a very high price for the big traders and the processing groups to hoard. in greece and europe, small and mediumsized farmers who are suffering the consequences of the cap have nothing to expect from tariffs, retaliation and alliances. they must organize, fight for their own needs against the politics that is destroying them.
madam president, only last thursday, the wto reported a 37% increase in the last half of this year in import—restrictive measures implemented by g20 economies, totalling more than usd 416 billion in trade coverage. at the beginning of october, the wto downgraded its forecast for world trade growth from 2.6% last february to 1.2%. history has shown that the road to devastating conflicts is paved with trade wars. it is clear that it is high time for a de-escalation of trade tensions. it is high time to choose talks over tariffs – even if they are legal for once – and engage earnestly in a reform of the wto to address existing imbalances. meanwhile, european farmers as well as consumers – the weakest elements on both sides of the atlantic – suffer from a conflict in which they have no fault, and where tariffs are deliberately weaponised by the trump administration to drive a wedge between european unity. i call upon the member states to stay united in the face of this challenge. providing a more predictable international trade environment for our farmers is the surest way to defend the livelihoods of our farmers in the long term.
madam president, the imposition of customs duties by the united states of america on european agri-food products is another blow to this sector. it will be once again agriculture and european farmers who will bear the brunt of a conflict that is alien to them. of course, in the immediate future it will be the sectors directly affected, such as portuguese dairy products, which will suffer the most, and the consequences will be felt particularly in the fragile economy of the azores, where the export of são jorge cheese, a product with high added value, will be severely affected. in the medium term, however, all european farmers will be affected by these unfair measures and will be hit by the disruptive effect they will have, both on their export markets and on the internal market itself. it is therefore also necessary, madam commissioner, to avoid an escalation of retaliatory measures with a negative outcome for everyone. it is essential that every effort be made to reach a negotiated solution to the end of these tariffs and, at the same time, to ensure that every measure is taken to protect our farmers from the negative impact of the application of these tariffs.
madam president, commissioner, despite repeated requests from the european union, the united states refuses to reach an amicable solution to the dispute between airbus and boeing, and our farmers in particular are paying the price. many products, such as wine, pigmeat and dairy products, are affected by the us measures. we therefore call on the european commission to put in place support measures for our farmers. i welcome the measures announced by commissioner hogan on friday for the wine sector. this is good news and must be followed up, in particular, by additional measures for the other sectors. the commission will also have to be firm when the european union, in turn, is authorised, in a few months' time, to impose restraining measures in the boeing case. finally, i cannot help but denounce the double game of the united states of donald trump, who are using the world trade organisation to their advantage, at the same time as they are trying to bury it by blocking the dispute settlement body. the european union must be united, through the european commission, to defend its businesses, farmers and economy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the united states is massively supporting their strategic enterprises. china, india and brazil are doing the same. these are great powers and their leaders are patriots. the european union would do well to follow this line of action, but it is still a prisoner of the free trade and globalist dogma. at the national assembly, with marine le pen, we want to defend the strategic and economic interests of the nations that make up it. in the theatre of globalisation, we do not want the us and others to show themselves strong. we would expect the european union to draw inspiration from this pragmatic policy of reality. our farmers and our industries would benefit greatly from such clarity and firmness. it is for them in particular that we want to change europe. the europe we want is precisely the europe of airbus, of concrete projects and of cooperation between free and independent nations.
member of the commission. – madam president, we are continuing on the wto and a very serious situation, and that is why i welcome this debate. i would like to thank the european parliament for taking the initiative to have a resolution on the appellate body crisis. it is very timely indeed, and it sends a powerful message to the world and to certain recipients, that the european parliament is fully on board and that we speak with one strong voice here in europe. we are approaching, as you know, the moment when there will be only one appellate body member left. this is because of the us blockade of the arbitrators. this will undermine the whole wto dispute settlement system, and, with the appellate body paralysed, there will be no access to binding independent two-step dispute settlement in the wto. this is not a technical matter. this is highly political. what is at stake is the rule of law in international trade relations. either we have a system where rules can be enforced, where trade disputes can be submitted to adjudicators – even if we don’t always like the result – and where rulings of ad hoc panels can be appealed before standing appeal instance that gives a guarantee of quality and independence, or we will slip into a power-based economic relationship. the european union – and i think i can count you all in – have made a choice: we support a rule-based multilateral trading system, because that benefits our citizens, our companies, and it creates a predictable structure and a good environment to operate in and to flourish. it promotes growth and creates jobs, and it contributes to orderly international relations. and we want the united states to be part of this system. they helped to create the system, and they have also benefited quite a lot from it.and, therefore, in the last two years, the european union, together with other countries as well, have led the efforts to resolve the impasse relating to the appellate body. this is not a dispute between the eu and the us. this is a dispute between the 163 members of the wto and the us. everybody is dependent on this body, even if not all wto members are frequent users of the system, they depend on a system where it functions. we have previously made proposals to reform the appellate body in order to try to address some of the concerns that the us had voiced, because the appellate body could function in a better and more efficient way, that is true. and we have also initiated discussions in the general council of the wto to see how this impasse can be resolved. we have demonstrated an open, constructive approach, and we have also supported the work of the facilitator, ambassador walker, who leads the work in geneva in this in order to try to unblock appointments to the body. alas, despite all these efforts, the appellate body will very likely come to a halt on 11 december, and that’s why we need to send this very clear message of determination. we will do what it takes to preserve a binding, independent, two-step system of dispute resolution in the wto. so we will continue to support all the efforts that lead to an unblocking, and we will also continue after it has come to an end in december. so we must prepare and deploy contingency measures that would preserve the right of the eu to the resolution of trade disputes in a binding, two-level, independent, impartial adjudication, even if appointments remain blocked. and that is why we are seeking an interim appeal of arbitration between trade partners as a stop-gap to ensure that our disputes continue to be adjudicated. this is not an alternative system, creating a new normal without the us. it’s an ad hoc solution with certain partners, hopefully leading to a plurilateral system that can work to create some clarity and some predictability for our companies. we hope, of course, that this will only be temporary. we owe that to our companies and to our citizens, because they are the ones benefiting from this system. so you can trust in the commission – and here we are very grateful for the strong support from the european parliament, as well as all the member states – to keep on fighting until the end of the year to see if anything can be done to unblock the situation. and if not, in december the commission will continue to work with other countries and allies, in order to find a – hopefully – permanent solution to this crisis next year.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the epp group has called for this debate – and i would like to thank all the other groups, and especially our chair, bernd lange, for their support – to sound the alarm over the future of the international rules-based trade order, one of the pillars of post—war peace and prosperity. without the capstone of the appellate body, this pillar is now at risk of collapse, effectively hurtling us back to the times when the law of the jungle dominated international trade relations. when, last friday, the us blocked the appointment of two new judges to the appellate body for the 29th consecutive time in two years, they brought us one step closer to the brink. let’s not forget that the wto has benefited all members of the wto – not least china and the us. it’s only fair to say, then, that all members carry the responsibility to support the system that has allowed global rivals to compete with a single rulebook, to the benefit of all. it is our duty to hope for the best, yet prepare for the worst. we cannot but lend our unequivocal support to the commission’s attempts to establish interim arrangements. a negotiated settlement within the context of the walker process will always be our priority, but better to be safe than sorry.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. first of all, i would like to thank you - this is probably our last plenary session together - for your open and good cooperation. we didn't always have the same political position, but sometimes it was controversial. but thank you for your constructive cooperation and good luck to you. the wonderful joni mitchell once said in a song, "you don't know what you've got until it's gone". and there's a lot to it. by the way, there are many beautiful songs of hers, but this wording of course fits exactly with this fact. you don't know what you have until you don't have it, until it's gone. and that, of course, includes the united states. we have a development of world trade, since 1948 it has increased about thirty-five times. and the only reason that could happen is because we had a rules-based system. and the authority to enforce that was this very court of appeal. this has benefited everyone, including the united states in 120 cases. and by the way, they've been right a lot of times, mostly. if you question this court of appeal, where about 70% of the decisions are made, you are putting the whole system in jeopardy. and then it will be really about: will the law of the jungle prevail or can we defend the rule of law? and that's what we have to do - either by finding an alternative, or by continuing to bring the united states to the negotiating table. this is also the call of parliament: let us continue to negotiate for a reform of the court of appeal in order to preserve this system and establish a global rules-based trading system!
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, the world trade organisation is going through an unprecedented crisis. like my colleagues, i am extremely concerned about the situation of the appellate body for dispute settlement. in two weeks' time, this body will cease to function because the united states refuses to appoint new judges. with the dispute settlement mechanism blocked, the multilateral system is hit and weakened. the european union, the commission and the european parliament have always supported multilateralism and rules-based international trade. the wto is the cornerstone of this system. the european union must use all the means at its disposal to prevent this paralysis. the commission must continue to explore other options. you did so with the proposal for an interim agreement with certain partners. the plans are there and the ideas are there; now we must act concretely and convincingly. i am also concerned to read in the press in the last few days that the united states is now threatening to block the adoption of the wto budget. the us under donald trump is going to the wto. this new threat adds to the blockage of appeal settlement and demonstrates a desire to bury the multilateral system once and for all. in this context of crisis, we too, colleagues, have a role to play. we stand for multilateralism and we must continue to convey our position to our parliamentary colleagues in other countries. the actions of each will be decisive. we must be extremely vigilant and continue our efforts to find a solution.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, mrs von der leyen, in the debates on the european campaign, the right and the left could give the illusion of disagreement on the direction to be given to the european union. but today, through a combination of interests, you, my dear colleagues, are going to elect a commission which is part of the continuity of the previous one. the musical chairs of the commissioners' posts we have seen in recent weeks will do nothing to change this: a good commissioner is first and foremost a man or a woman who must be able to fit in without stumbling into the mold of regulations and procedures which only brussels has the secret to know. the emergence, across the continent, of political forces defending the interests of peoples and nations should have prompted you to revise your copy and break with the totally outdated logics that you are going to continue: free trade agreements, unfair competition, seconded work, liberalisation of our public services, the mirage of a federal europe and, of course, lax migration. all these words you will remain deaf to, in a hellish machine, technocratic, without borders and without a soul. shortly after you were given the title of commissioner for the protection of the european way of life, your semantic courage gave way under the pressure of the socialists to become the promotion of european ways of life, much as you already appointed him because he will be: a commissioner for the promotion of immigration. i am convinced that this commission will play its proper role, that of a lead-coat designed to stifle the aspirations of the european nations for freedom and historical continuity. brexit should be an opportunity for the council to put the treaties back on the table and move towards a more just, more protective and, above all, more democratic europe of nations. mr juncker, mrs von der leyen, a game of musical chairs to make sure nothing changes.
madam president, madam president-elect, we have already communicated a great deal. a few months ago you won a majority in this house; you came for a hearing; we were able to hear all the commissioners. you yourself have been to the groups and there has been a great deal of discussion. i shall not therefore be asking any further questions but perhaps a comment. like everyone else here, we know that we are at a tipping point for the european union, and i am one of those who believe that this house is not going to last forever and that we must take care of the european union and our institutions if we are to preserve our european model and our european political construction. i also believe that our commission and our future commissioners are the product of this democratic process which makes them european politicians and not the heads of administration or the ceos of the european commission. we need public policy to be embodied and - i am addressing all of your future college - we need public policy to be embodied in the national media in europe, including in contact with citizens and in response both to the expectations expressed by europeans in the european elections and to what they told us during those elections, i.e. a more efficient europe, a europe that gets results, a europe that speaks about the priorities that were discussed. i made the same statement last time, during your first inauguration and the first vote on you, and objectively i do not understand the position of the green group on this commission. we have the most progressive and ecological commission in the history of the commission, and i do not understand the search for arguments. mrs keller may have more to say about the arguments, but in any case i thank you for the discussions and debates and the priorities. of course we will vote for this commission... (inaudible words)
madam president, madam president-elect, commissioners-designate, today you will receive much broader and consolidated support from the socialist group than you did in july, and there are three reasons for this to happen. first, madam president, you took strong pledges and made serious political commitments for a progressive change of the european union – a change which is social, environmental and economic. the most progressive, actually, political agenda for the commission is at the table, and we have to back it. but we socialists shall be very vigilant and demanding on what you deliver, and the first test will be the multiannual financial framework, because you cannot make policies without resources. second, we have a strong team of socialist commissioners who have the vision, competence and energy to deliver, and the commission cannot be seen anymore as the domain of the epp, where one party dominates the policies. it’s a balance of policies and political forces. third – last but not least – european citizens have no patience anymore. they want us to deliver. in the last european elections there was record participation, but the patience of citizens is at its limits, so please start acting and delivering from today. you only have five years. (applause)
madam president, this european democracy, still young and fragile, is not fully mature and certainly not federalist. the member states appoint the commissioners, and this allows two governments, hungary and poland, to send commissioners loyal to them. yet article 7 has been triggered against these two countries because they violate the most basic rules of the rule of law and our values. today, the candidate sent to hungary is supposed to represent the fundamental rights of the european union in countries applying for membership. what a terrible provocation by this commission, which has made a verbal commitment to the rule of law and fundamental freedoms. will you really be able to act despite the pressure from the member states and despite the overwhelming power of the intergovernmental process? will you be able to serve the european citizens and european values and not be at the mercy of the member states? parliament has played its part by rejecting candidates with too many conflicts of interest. it also plays its part by questioning the commissioners-designate on respect for the values of our union and their independence from their member states. it's your turn to be brave! one wallet hasn't changed its name in weeks. you maintain a portfolio called democracy and demography. for a feminist, this combination of words is a chilling thought, and that commissioner, mrs suica, is the one in charge of the conference on the future of europe. at her hearing, this candidate refused to condemn the theory of the great replacement. you will then understand, once again, our concern about this commission. can you ensure a future of a feminist, inclusive and fundamental freedoms europe?
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote is not a vote like any other, it is a major vote, perhaps the vote of the century, to tackle the two greatest challenges of our time: the climate catastrophe and the inequality crisis, two issues that cannot be accommodated by vague or contradictory commitments. however, after this series of hearings, it is clear that we are still hungry. firstly, from an ethical point of view, three commissioners-designate were disqualified for conflict of interest, and serious doubts remain about the independence of other commissioners. in the background, there are of course promises to be welcomed, such as the minimum wage, the right of commitment, the right of initiative of parliamentarians or the prospect of a major plan to insulate buildings. on all these issues, we will be vigilant allies in forming majorities for social progress. however, despite these few advances, you still cling to the dogmas that are responsible for the current social, democratic and ecological crises. how can we pursue a green pact while pursuing climate-killing free trade agreements? how can we fight tax evasion while protecting some of the world's worst tax havens? how can we think of a humanist policy if we refuse to give the exiles a dignified welcome? finally, how can we restore hope to the peoples of europe by continuing to impose the yoke of austerity on them? you can't be both firemen and arsonists. the european union is now playing for its survival, as citizens' distrust of the institutions has already passed the alert threshold. in the face of these challenges, people and the planet deserve better. people and the planet deserve a truly ambitious green new deal that creates hundreds of thousands of jobs by changing our farming systems, our industrial practices, our consumption patterns and our transportation. people and the planet deserve tax justice and an end to the impunity of multinational corporations that do not pay their fair share of taxes. the people and the planet deserve a civilian sea rescue force, not a commissioner promoting the european way of life who will turn a blind eye to the deaths in the mediterranean. the people and the planet finally deserve better public services and social protection to lift the 113 million europeans out of extreme poverty. wouldn't this programme be a thousand times more exciting for our future than another project that has been renewed, albeit with a new package, but worn down to the core? you will have understood, mrs von der leyen, that our group of the european united left is not prepared, under these conditions, to entrust you with the reins of the european union. the people and the planet deserve better.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, i'm sorry to disturb the paranoia, but let's not go around the bush. the theme is obviously being imposed to reinforce the idea that vladimir putin's russia is hiding behind the successes of the sovereignist forces on the european continent. if president macron, chancellor merkel and their friends are accumulating electoral setbacks, it could only be explained by foreign manipulation. the national agency for information systems security claimed last year that during the french presidential campaign, there were no russian cyberattacks, which proved president macron wrong. better still, the report published on 14 june by the european commission was unable to identify any foreign-organised disinformation campaign focused on the european elections. so it's quite amusing to see that it's those who claim to discover conspiracies who resort to conspiracy by regularly imagining an invisible russian hand. there are obvious and real interferences, but they are not where you want to see them. didn't former us president barack obama interfere in the french election by openly supporting emmanuel macron during the midterms? didn't chancellor angela merkel say in 2016 that she wanted to push back the national front? finally, what about the threatening statements made by european leaders or officials to intimidate the british during the brexit referendum or after the election of mr salvini in italy? ladies and gentlemen, please stop making the awakening of the peoples look like a phenomenon whose causes are irrational or obscure. it is because of the impasse in which you have led them for so long and your inability to respond to the real aspirations of the european peoples.
madam president, madam vice-president, what underpins our european model is first of all the freedom to choose those who govern us. but more and more often we see foreign powers trying to influence the outcome of our votes with the obvious aim of weakening us. we can see it, we can deplore it, we can condemn these interferences, or rather this cancer which is trying to destroy our free world. but above all we must act and act without delay. to do this, why not create a european agency for the protection of democracies that would provide each member state with the necessary expertise to counter cyber attacks, manipulation and disinformation targeting electoral processes? we have a european agency to protect our food security. if we can protect what comes on our plates, we should be able to protect what goes through our ballot boxes and ballots. democracy poisoning has consequences at least as serious as food poisoning, and is sometimes much more difficult to cure. madam president, i congratulate you on your election and thank you for your commitment to protecting our democracies.
madam president, in france, after 1870, parliamentary and journalistic circles were gripped by terror, and they saw the hand of germany in every election. similar phenomena have been repeatedly recorded in the history of the member states. sometimes these fears are justified; often they are just fantasies. they were always overtaken by one element: the feeling of the national unity necessary to maintain the european homelands. the european union is now paradoxical in its attitude to this danger. it describes any return to national feeling as a danger and claims both to protect us from foreign interference. any debate or resolution on foreign interference in elections is in fact a clear political attack on european patriotic movements and often on russia, which is accused of being a major player in foreign electoral interference and disinformation in national and european democratic processes. i can also mention the cases of direct and obvious foreign interference by leaders or pressure groups in the recent elections in the european union: mr soros and his open society, who put slogans against the hungarian government on the walls of budapest; the algerian leaders, who regularly call for the dissolution of the national assembly; mr. erdoğan, who, thanks to the generous subsidies we pay him, gives voting instructions to dual nationals in germany and france; and mr. obama, who is providing a broad media support to mr. macron two days before the presidential election. finally, madam president, i have just come from a meeting where meps are calling for more support for the opposition in belarus. before we learn any lessons, let us be careful not to be guilty ourselves.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when we discuss the question of external interference in our elections, it is a good thing to systematically point to russia. these accusations are obsessive and are only intended to justify sanctions against the russians and a more atlanticist approach, as if the cold war were still relevant. we forget about the interference within our democracies. after all, who voted a resolution to sanction the government of viktor orbán, officially for violating the rule of law, unofficially for rejecting the plan to relocate the migrants? it is the european parliament. who looks with sympathy at ngos, like george soros's, that promote mass immigration and serve political interests that are contrary to those of our nations? this is the european union. who has been unyielding with the uk government on the brexit negotiations in order to dissuade any other similar initiatives? it is also the european union. finally, who created a task force in 2015 to monitor what they call dubious information circulating on the web? in french, this is called censorship. again, this is the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we can ask ourselves that question. these facts once again demonstrate that the european union and its parliament are not lagging behind in matters of interference, which is why this institution loses all legitimacy to debate this subject.
mr president, although this debate was called for to speak ill of russia, let me derogate from your rule to denounce a closer interference, that of turkey. the country does not hide its european ambitions, which are not frankly friendly. the recent turkish drilling off cyprus confirms the unfortunate tendency of turkey to disregard european territorial integrity. the constant blackmail and the sending of columns of migrants to europe is also an unbearable show of force that we should not accept. political interference is blatant when mr erdoğan, after germany and the netherlands have legitimately prevented turkish ministers from campaigning for the strengthening of his powers on their territory, became upset and urged his diaspora to have many children to play on the future of europe. this is called a threat of population conquest. in the last legislative elections in france, we saw 68 candidates from the equality and justice party, an islamist party which wants to develop turkish communitarianism in europe. the interference is also reflected in the freedom of the press. when mr. erdoğan is criticized in one of the magazines, thugs attack the newsstands. when france debates the ban on female school teachers wearing the veil, a purely domestic matter, the turkish foreign minister officially condemns the french senate. this whole list, which is unfortunately not exhaustive, proves that turkey should mind its own business and stop trying to relive the glory days of the ottoman empire, which died a century ago. sultan erdoğan has no intention of becoming the emperor of europe. it would be good if our court reminded him of that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here once again to discuss the interference of outside forces in our elections. this time, it's at the request of our english friends; before, it was at the request of our italian friends, and it will continue to be so. what are we going to do about it? are we going to spend five years complaining that vladimir putin is manipulating our electoral system? are we going to spend five years multiplying empty resolutions with no effect? we have proposed a special commission to investigate these interferences and to establish the means to combat them. but for vile political calculations, you did not vote for this committee, which delayed our effort. so if we are serious, we have to stop commenting on outside interference and we have to act. let us set up this special committee, make the recommendations that will protect our democracies and act, because our opponents do not wait for us to wake up to act.
mr president, each country is marked by its borders and its history, and all these countries are both former soviet socialist republics that have turned their backs on the communists and countries - with the exception of moldova - that all share a common border with russia. european policy should take account of this reality and not systematically ask these countries to turn their backs on their past and their history in thirty years. we have the opportunity to make these countries bridges between europe and russia and to contribute to the discussions and progress between our two blocs. to ask them to choose between one or the other is to run into disaster. we may have forgotten a little too soon that it was after an association agreement, for which we were asking ukraine to turn its back on its history, that the war and the events you know about broke out, leading the country into chaos. i think that should encourage us to show a little humility towards this region and to try, i repeat, to keep up with these states.
madam president, it was a duty and a necessity. as the union was to open up to the countries of central europe, it was to offer a partnership to the eastern countries, which had become our new neighbours as a result of enlargement. the partnership has its weaknesses and its successes, but ten years later, one thing is clear: in our eastern partnership we have forgotten russia, or more precisely, we have not wanted to see it, because the problems it poses seemed to us to be insoluble. today we must work to redress this political cowardice by exploring the possibility of new helsinki agreements with moscow, security and cooperation agreements. it's going to be difficult, i'm sure. no, it will be extremely difficult and totally uncertain, but we must try to do it because the russian federation is the other half of the continent, the largest country in the world; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
madam president, i would like to thank the high commissioner for these positive words and that bringing in the middle east, bringing peace between israel and palestine will be a lasting peace and it can be easily done if we can open the channels of communication. i must remind you that israel is an important partner for the european union. colleagues in this house have declared several times the importance of a comprehensive solution in the middle east to end the conflict and contribute to the security and stability in the region, and that includes also a safe israeli state. the eu has to remain relevant as an honest and balanced broker in the future of the political process between israel and palestine. lasting peace can be based only on an enduring commitment to non-violence, justice and mutual recognition, building upon previous agreements and legal obligations. the two-state solution envisaged in the region, where two states, israel and palestine, live side by side in peace within secure and recognised borders. i must remind you that israel has been singled out many times in the un human rights council and that’s not right. israel shouldn’t be the only country that is being treated separately from other countries and this should be corrected as the eu is financing a multilateral system and it should be an honest broker that includes israel that is the greatest democracy in this part of the region.
madam president, the security council reaffirms that the establishment by israel of settlements in the palestinian territory occupied since 1967, including east jerusalem, has no legal basis and constitutes a flagrant violation of international law and a major obstacle to the achievement of the two-state solution and the establishment of a comprehensive and lasting peace. this is paragraph 1 of security council resolution 2334 of 2016. under international law, the golan heights and the west bank, including east jerusalem, are not part of israeli territory (paragraph 16 of the judgment of 12 november 2019 of the court of justice of the european union), and i could continue to list the references of international and european law decreeing the illegality of settlements; the list is long. in this context, mr pompeo's announcement on 18 november appears to be a further provocation. what are we supposed to do? respect for international law, respect for european law. i thank mrs mogherini for the work she has done in both directions, in respect of international law - the 1967 borders - but also in respect of european law. the court of justice reminds us of this: on 12 november it obliged the european union and the member states to guarantee consumers correct and precise labelling, distinguishing products from palestinian or israeli territories or settlements. we are in the european parliament, you are in the commission, we all have to respect international law and european law; it is our duty, it is our responsibility.
madam president, the main asset in international relations is not military strength but economic power. the european union should therefore be the main strategic actor in the israeli-palestinian conflict. but israel is systematically violating the un resolutions, the fourth geneva convention and the association agreement with the european union itself - and i quote verbatim - which establishes and is based on respect for democratic principles and human rights, which is an essential element of the agreement. i ask: when will we demand compliance with this agreement? cooperation, yes, but with whom it complies. and if that were not enough, our supposed ally, the united states, ignores us, dynamiting the oslo agreements, recognizing israeli sovereignty over the occupied territories. we are irrelevant because they don't respect us and because we don't respect ourselves. half a century of occupation is intolerable, unacceptable. all the convictions are over, because they're perfectly useless. let's get down to business.
madam president, madam high representative, at a time when the united states is reinventing international law at will, i welcome legal sobriety and european consistency. in accordance with international law, the judgment of the court of justice of the european union reiterates its positions. it distinguishes israel from its settlements in the west bank, east jerusalem and the syrian golan heights, and that is essential. we know that colonization is a real obstacle to peace. since 1967, not even counting east jerusalem, we have gone from 16,000 to 427,000 settlers, according to 2018 figures from the israeli organization peace now. so thank you to europe for standing up for its values, but it is also time for our europe to stand up for its actions. it is time to make a real contribution to peace. the european union has sufficiently proclaimed the right; it is now up to him to implement and enforce it, for she has the means to do so. it is the commission's responsibility to ensure that member states respect the labelling of products from the colonies. it is also the council's responsibility to have the courage to go further and to take on the task of enforcing international law.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, blood has flowed in tehran and it is still flowing in baghdad, with hundreds of dead. yet behind this tragedy, we are witnessing the birth of a new middle east. let's look at the protests in baghdad and beirut first. in these processions, there are no sunnis, kurds, shiites or christians; there are lebanese here, iraqis there, citizens of both countries, protesting side by side against the deterioration of their living conditions, the extent of corruption and the collapse of public services. no one would have thought that community borders could be erased in this way, but in the social anger, a century after their creation by the colonial powers, these mosaic countries seem to finally become nation states. it's a break up. second turning point in recent weeks, iran is now in trouble. in lebanon, hezbollah, the armed wing of the islamic republic, is as contested as any other party. in iraq, all communities, shiites in particular, are denouncing tehran's grip on the government and the state apparatus. both countries are in revolt against the protectorate that tehran wants to impose on them and this is a serious setback for the regime at the very moment when iranians are denouncing the soaring prices and challenging the very foundations of theocracy. for more than twenty years now, this power has been going from crisis to crisis, but their pace is accelerating as their depth is increasing. the power that was seen as rising in the middle east may no longer be so and everything could change in this region whose balances change from month to month. and all this, ladies and gentlemen, is happening right at our doorstep. more than ever, we would have to be blind and deaf if we did not want to assert our union on the international stage and equip it with all the instruments of a power.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, lebanon, iraq, iran: the region has long been subject to foreign interference and perpetual regional interference. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations with the united states, which have been a major factor in the negotiations. iran, stifled by a totalitarian regime but hastily pushed back by the united states, is sinking away from our eyes, digital communication cut off, in a violent repression of a people's aspiration to regain their freedom. in both countries, our clumsy and often self-serving interventions have led to chaos. let us be careful not to make the same mistakes in lebanon. to paraphrase montesquieu, who recommended that laws should be touched only with a trembling hand, let us apply this wise precaution to the civilization of the levant, which brought us the great monotheistic spiritualities, the beginning of urban civilization but also agriculture. the lebanese, in what appears to be a genuine revolution, have only their own demands. to see only lebanese flags flying in the middle of the demonstrations is a real sign of hope. our responsibility is to prevent the worst from happening and to help this country preserve a religious system that allows such diverse religious communities to live together. this balance in lebanon is the best response to the barbarism of islamism that daesh has tried to install in the region. with our respective national histories, let us assist this nation to emerge from this period in peace. let's keep the aid that the people need. defending pluralism in lebanon means defending it in europe too.
mr president, mrs mogherini, as you have said, the region we are talking about tonight, the middle east, is plagued by serious tensions. in this situation, we europeans must have three major objectives. first, we must help these countries in their quest for democracy, or at least in their desire to move towards a more solid rule of law. i am thinking in particular, as a french elected official, of our friends in lebanon who can and must have our support in this transition. secondly, we must ensure that - this is our historic role - minorities are protected. i am thinking in particular of the christian minorities, whose protectors we must be in this region, but also, for example, the yazidis and all those who might be affected by violence. ensuring peace and respect for the rights of every human being in this region, regardless of their faith, should be a priority of our diplomacy. thirdly, as my colleague has just said, it is important to ensure that these developments are not captured by what is now our main enemy, not only in this region but on our own territory, namely islamism. we know very well and we have experienced it before, the way radical islam can take control of these territories, on the occasion of a demand for democracy, should worry us. today we must be vigilant. thirteen french soldiers died the day before yesterday in the sahel-saharan strip of mali, fighting this enemy. dear friends, we have been deeply touched by your support for france in this time of grief, but this support must also be concrete today. our country cannot fight this battle alone. we must join forces in this endeavor, join our military forces, of course. we will not have strong and effective diplomacy if we do not have, at the same time and collectively, the means to act. the european defence fund, for example, and a more consistent commitment to this effort to defend europe, can help europe to achieve peace in the future by developing its strategic autonomy and by giving it a free voice in the world that is emerging.
mr president, madam high representative, we must listen to and understand the anger of the lebanese people, but we must ensure that all developments in lebanon preserve religious diversity and, in particular, the place of the christian community, which, as you know, is particularly threatened in that region. as european elected representatives, however, we must ask ourselves: what happens to the millions of dollars that are being paid to lebanon to help it? i will hand you a letter from a lebanese politician from the tripoli area, who tells us that the european union has financed a waste treatment plant which has never been operational. why don't the donors check? why did this money never reach the intended recipient? finally, why is europe not doing anything to ensure that the money does not go into the channels of corruption? i think the service we could do to the lebanese would be to ensure that the money the europeans give them to help them actually benefits the people and is not wasted in corruption.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, we all know in this chamber that our destinies, those of the acp countries and those of the european union, are linked and will be even more so tomorrow. only together can we provide answers to global challenges, starting with tackling the climate and biodiversity crises. our friends in the acp countries are sounding the alarm because the consequences of climate change are threatening their survival. the european union's support for adaptation to climate change is essential if we are to act before it is too late. another major challenge is the fight against poaching and wildlife trafficking, which must be a priority to save biodiversity. secondly, i would like to mention the role of young people and women. the fate of a continent in transition depends absolutely on the youth of africa in particular. the european union and the acp countries will need to build bridges between their young people in the fields of education, entrepreneurship and academic and cultural exchanges. this is how they will be able to build their future together, but also gender equality, women's empowerment, their education, including sexual and reproductive education, which are essential. unlocking women's potential is the best bet we can make for the future. commissioner, after more than 60 years of partnership and as new players assert themselves on the international cooperation scene, the european union cannot do without its historic allies. in kigali we saw that our partners in the acp countries wanted a real partnership. i too, as a european, want this real partnership. we have everything at our disposal to build a new relationship, based ever more on cooperation and mutual respect.
madam president, mr commissioner, the future of our relations after february 2020 and the expiry of the cotonou agreement were the focus of our discussions last week in kigali. as vice-president of the acp-eu parliamentary assembly, i deeply regret that this multilateral framework, to which we are all deeply committed here, is being threatened by these negotiations. a genuine win-win partnership with the acp will only come about if the parliamentary dimension is maintained and strengthened. while it is true that the functioning of this assembly needs to be reformed to increase its efficiency, it would be wrong to abolish it. protection of human rights, the rule of law, the sustainable development goals and the fight against climate change are all issues that will find solutions if we act together, and parliamentary diplomacy is the vehicle for real progress. for example, in kigali we adopted a common approach to cop 25 which will take place in madrid in a few days' time. in this sense, i would like to call again on the european commission to make the paris agreement an essential element of this future partnership.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on the protection of forest and environmental defenders in the eu (2019/2939 (rsp)). i would like to remind you again that it is possible to submit a request to speak during the 'catch-the-eye' procedure and the 'blue card questioning' procedure using both the 'normal procedure' and the electronic system. the instructions are available at the entrance to the hemicycle.
member of the commission. – mr president, the commission is strongly committed to protecting and restoring existing forests, both within the european union and worldwide. to this end, a comprehensive legislative framework exists at eu level. in particular, many forests are protected under the birds and habitats directives. these directives require that some forest habitats be maintained at or restored to favourable conservation status. currently 23% of the european union’s forest area is part of the natura 2000 network of protected sites. in addition, species protection rules under both the birds and habitats directives apply within the whole eu territory. environmental defenders represent natural and indispensable allies in the promotion of environmental rights. another tool is the directive on environmental crime in the european union. the commission is currently evaluating how the directive has contributed to the fight against environmental crime. the commission is currently carrying out a wide public consultation, open until january 2020, and will assess the need to review this legislation or improve its implementation. finally, the timber regulation aims to prevent trade in illegally harvested timber and timber products. environmental crime is also considered a threat to european security and to the well-being of citizens. it has therefore been included in the eu policy cycle against serious and organised crime covering the period from 2018 to 2021. the european union policy cycle’s primary objective is to increase cooperation amongst law enforcement services and eu agencies to disrupt organised crime groups through operational actions. it is important to recall that member states are responsible for implementing the relevant rules, as well as for taking appropriate enforcement measures, including sanctions and penalties. the commission monitors the implementation of these rules and takes action when needed. the european union is also providing financial means for the protection, restoration and sustainable management of forests in line with the eu forest strategy. the european union’s rural development funds under the common agricultural policy are the main source of funding for forests, amounting to eur 8.2 billion of public expenditure in the current multiannual financial framework (mff) period 2014-2020. last but not least, the recent communication on stepping up eu action to protect and restore the world’s forests shows that the european union is increasing its efforts to step up global action against biodiversity loss. this is currently being discussed in the council and parliament. in this context, i have to highlight again the important role of the timber regulation, which applies to both timber logged in third countries and imported into the european union and to domestic timber logged in the european union. the commission has been alerted to reported cases of continued illegal logging in some member states, including in primary forests, and is carefully assessing the situation. on the specific case of romania, the commission is working with the authorities to assess the situation. it is also in the process of analysing copernicus satellite imagery of logging activities in natura 2000 protected areas.
on behalf of the epp group. about 42% of the european union's land area is covered by forests and over three million europeans are employed in the forestry sector. they are immeasurably important to all life on earth, but also to depopulated areas where they create real employment opportunities. green gold is not inexhaustible, however. today the whole world is called upon to fight against what knows no national or continental boundaries, namely to combat the profound climate change that affects our daily lives. sustainable forest management is extremely important in this respect, given the increased carbon dioxide secretion. at all political levels, everything must be done to prevent forest degradation and to restore forests to good condition where necessary. the european commission and the member states must once again support the necessary measures to reforest degraded land and land unsuitable for agriculture.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, every year more and more women and men who fight for the protection of the environment are the victims of violence and intimidation. in 2018, more than 160 people died fighting for the environment around the world. when not killed, these activists are often subjected to abusive arrests, threats or violence for daring to oppose the interests of governments and corporations that appropriate their land or forests. unfortunately, this violence is on the increase, and although europe is not the continent most affected by this violence, it is not exempt from it. in recent months, two people have been killed fighting against illegal slaughter in romania, while in the uk three people have been sentenced to long prison terms for their actions against shale gas exploitation. among human rights activists, environmental activists often face serious dangers because of the financial interests that their actions call into question. we need binding laws so that these companies are held accountable for acts against activists today. these companies - european companies importing raw materials and products from third countries - now have to ensure that their partners and the entire supply chain respect human and environmental rights. the regulation on wood is a good regulation, but we need to go further in terms of corporate responsibility. environmental activists must be able to look to europe for protection and access to justice when they are victims of such violence. the justice system should not be a tool to silence activists, but to defend them against those who attack their rights and cause environmental damage. the criminalisation of these activists only trivializes and legitimises the violence they suffer, which in turn encourages the continuation of the same violence. such measures should make it possible to better protect and defend environmental activists in europe and the rest of the world.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, the forests are our life. they cover 30% of the earth's surface, but they maintain 80% of biodiversity. they're the reason we breathe. they're the reason we're alive. we therefore welcome the commission's concern for the protection of european and world forests. the truth is that as the conditions of our forests worsen, the conditions of the people who defend them, of the environmental defenders, are also deteriorating in the world. some data has been given, and, indeed, according to some reports, such as the front line defenders report, in 2018 two hundred and forty-seven environmental leaders have been shot, persecuted or have disappeared precisely for defending their environmental environment, for defending the right of all. because it must be said that the destruction of biodiversity is not exclusively a matter of environmental law but must be considered as a violation of international human rights. in this sense, the european union must take action to defend those who defend our environment. we must improve our environmental legislation and fight environmental crime. indeed, as has also been mentioned, forty environmental organizations from all over the world are protesting and demanding justice in connection with the murder last month of two forest guards in romania who had denounced the illegal logging of the forests in their region. the commission notes that the romanian authorities have not provided any evidence that the wood used in the production of the wood products concerned was obtained from unidentified sources. a certification, a secure labelling that certifies a deforestation-free value chain, both of european and international forests, is absolutely necessary in the european union. i think the commission should take up this task.
for the greens/efa group mr president, their names were răducu gorcioaia and liviu pop, they were forest rangers and they were murdered this autumn because they were only doing their duty, which is to protect the forest. in all, not two but six forest rangers have been killed by the timber mafia in recent years in romania. they were protecting nature, but no one protected them. the environmentalists are targets, and we know it. every year, nearly 200 conservationists are killed worldwide. every week, three people are killed because they defend their natural assets, their land or simply their rights against the mining, forestry or agro-food industries. every day, women and men who defend nature are attacked, silenced, slandered, arrested or threatened with death. long global witness points out that this harassment is linked to eco-criminal gangs, but it is also the result of the actions of states that implement policies aimed at criminalizing and intimidating environmentalists. cynicism kills, greed kills and indifference kills. this happens most often outside our borders, as in the brazil of bolsonaro, our trading partner, where, just this tuesday, the ngo saúde e alegria and four environmentalists were searched by military and falsely accused of having deliberately set fire to alter do chão in order to receive international donations. the same is true in the european union with the romanian forest rangers, or rémi fraisse, killed by a grenade from the french police, or the activists against hydraulic fracturing who have been given long prison sentences in the united kingdom. the union's silence is complicity; it is time to put an end to this and it is time for the union to finally condemn the crimes against nature and those who protect it. it is time for the union to finally and forcefully honour the lives and commitment of those who make it possible for us to live on a habitable earth today.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to go beyond the european framework. indeed, environmentalists are being targeted all over the world. according to ngos, at least 164 environmental defenders were killed last year. they fought against mining, forestry and agro-industrial projects, but others were silenced by intimidation and violence. with this sad diagnosis, how can we help them? it is always possible to put pressure on the states and multinationals that encourage this violence for ever greater profits, but we will help these heroic defenders of the environment above all if we too change our consumption habits. deforestation, poaching, mass and intensive agriculture exist and develop because there is a demand in europe's supermarkets: wood for our furniture, soya for beef and palm oil for shampoos. the european union's consumption is estimated to account for about 10% of the global share of deforestation, which is due in particular to the consumption of these products. our role as policy makers is to alert and inform the citizens of our respective countries, to propose to them to consume in an eco-responsible way and to encourage them to do so. it is urgent to stop all international treaties that promote this plundering of the earth's resources.
the next item is the debate on five motions for resolutions on the situation of freedoms in algeria (2019/2927 (rsp)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since i have been a member of parliament, we have voted resolutions on a wide range of subjects, on countries as far away as indonesia, but we have not had a word to say about the wonderful revolution taking place just across the mediterranean in algeria. we have not heard a word of support for the millions of algerians who have been marching in the streets of algiers and other algerian cities for nine months for democracy, justice and dignity. we have not heard a word about the arrests, the pressure and the violence that they are subjected to, nor have we heard a word about the cases of torture that have now been established. this complicit silence, cleverly maintained by powerful lobbies, can no longer last. the resolution of solidarity we are voting on today is not an interference, it is the end of an immense injustice. it is time, ladies and gentlemen, to show that we stand with the algerian people. so, as we say in my country: one, two, three, viva l'algeria!
author. mr president, the algerian government has unfortunately shown its true face over the past two years: a face against religious freedom. in recent years, the algerian government has closed 15 protestant churches, seven of them in the past three months. in fact, some people were injured when a church was closed in tizi ouzou on 16 october. the ahmadi community in algeria has also been severely affected. in the period from june 2016 to march 2018, as many as 315 ahmadiyya muslims were persecuted for their religious beliefs. it is also a clear and distinct signal from the 2018 external action service human rights report. it clearly states: in algeria, the space for active citizenship and the right to association and assembly is and remains limited. freedom of religion is a fundamental human right. this right includes the right to assemble in churches and other places of worship. what we are seeing now in algeria, but unfortunately also in several countries in the middle east, is that these forces are being countered. that right is being violated. i expect the high representative to take strong action against this, because what is happening is unacceptable; the church closures must be reversed. i assume that the special envoy for religious freedom and freedom of belief will also be closely involved in that process, because what is happening in algeria today is a violation of all rights.
mr president, let us imagine, let us hope, let us dream for a moment! let us imagine that this huge movement that has been stirring up for so many months today's algeria, young, determined and aspiring to dignity, the rule of law and equity, let us imagine that this movement wins. it would not only be the happiness and pride of algeria, it would be the mobilisation of all these energies in favour of the resumption of the inter-maghreb dialogue, economic and cultural cooperation with europe, and the help of the two shores of the mediterranean to sub-saharan africa. it would be the realization of our common aspirations for all of us, maghrebis and europeans. that is why we must adopt this resolution, against an intolerable and absurd repression which risks destroying this beautiful algerian dream. let us say to algeria in struggle, the hope, support and affection of europe.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. a week ago today, i had the opportunity to speak at the ahmadiyya muslim peace symposium in austria on the topic of "world peace" in my home city of vienna. other religious groups were also represented. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i say this because in europe the european values, which are universal values, are also lived. human dignity and individual freedom, freedom of conscience and belief are respected. because these are universal values, we have a responsibility to speak out when things happen like in algeria, where ahmadiyya muslims -- the very denomination i was privileged to speak to last week -- are being arrested in algeria for their faith. when 15 churches are closed, when websites that promote free speech are closed, when women's organizations are closed, we speak up. on 12 december, elections will be held in algeria. the algerian people should know how to decide when it comes to their freedom.
the s&d group, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, has called for a new constitution to be drawn up, and for the european parliament to be given the opportunity to vote on the draft constitution. algeria is committed - as we know - to respecting fundamental human rights by being a signatory to several international treaties, including the universal declaration of human rights and the international covenant on civil and political rights, to name but a few. the algerian constitution therefore guarantees respect for freedom of expression and demonstration. yet dozens of prominent figures are currently in detention for simply expressing an option, under the pretext that they would undermine national unity. media outlets were put under pressure and forced to close down, as well as ngos. in our resolution, the european parliament calls on the algerian authorities to release all political prisoners and prisoners of conscience. the human rights and fundamental freedoms that algeria has committed to uphold must be guaranteed, in particular the freedoms of expression and demonstration. europe is a friend of algeria but above all a friend of all algerians. it is our duty to recall the joint partnership priorities adopted in march 2017, in which both sides reaffirmed their commitment to respect the universal values of democracy, the rule of law and human rights.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, the democratic protests in algeria seemed to have achieved their objective when president bouteflika reversed his decision to stand for a fifth consecutive term in april of this year. however, the leaders of the various protest movements have been detained in recent months by what is increasingly looking like a military regime. it would be a tragedy if algeria misses this opportunity to alter course and join its neighbours morocco and tunisia in becoming a country more open to the outside world. i call for the release of all of these prisoners and i echo my colleagues’ concern about religious freedoms and the opening up of religious freedom, and when these elections come along they need to be free and fair. then i would like to see algeria open its borders with morocco and tunisia to form a maghreb union, as a strong and effective partner to the european union, so that it can go forward with economic development that brings prosperity and peace to the maghreb area.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the greens/efa group refused to support the inclusion of an emergency resolution on algeria on the agenda of the plenary session for the following reasons: the choice of the political agenda, which is just before the elections on 12 december; the risk of politicizing human rights; the risk of degrading the legitimacy or credibility of the opposition and algerians who have been demonstrating for nine months; the risk of feeding the rhetoric of the ruling regimes on alleged foreign interference; the conviction that algeria deserves much more than a resolution which, although containing strong and important messages of support for algerians, is lacking in substance and contains references that are out of place. despite these reservations, we shall vote in favour of this resolution. however, our support for the algerian people will not stop there, as we have done since march 2019. we remain mobilized alongside the algerian people in their legitimate demand for their freedom and rights. we welcome the example of the algerian people in demonstrating their desire for change in an extremely peaceful way. in the end, we want the algerian people to decide their own future. and as we say in my country, in the algerian language: . . . long live algeria!
on behalf of the id group. mr president, what is happening in algeria cannot leave anyone indifferent for two reasons. the first is based on principles; the second is based on reality. principles, that is to say we must act to defend them wherever freedoms are violated. the reality is tears, suffocation, blood, distress and also the fact that between algeria and france, there is a historical, economic, political and emotional link. if people are not well there, they leave algeria and arrive in difficult conditions in france, which can no longer and no longer wants to welcome. i believe we must pass this resolution in the name of our freedoms, our principles and perhaps also our very reason for being.
mr president, for 130 years, from 1830 to 1962, algeria was a country of religious freedom. for 130 years, christians, jews and muslims were able to practice their respective religions in complete serenity, free from any extremist interpretation, starting with that of islam. for nearly 60 years, the algerian fln-led government has been steadily restricting the free exercise of religion by the jewish and christian minorities, until they have all but disappeared from the country. today, having a bible in your pocket can cost you up to five years in prison. these incessant attacks are also against memory. successive governments have deliberately allowed violent vandalism to take place against jewish and christian cemeteries. it is because it has lost this pluralism that algeria has been sinking for 30 years, between a totalitarian regime and jihadist terrorism. without repentance or false modesty, we must condemn and face up to its responsibilities an intolerant and worn-out power.
madam president, i would just like to refer to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure. on monday evening we had a debate on the climate and environmental emergency, which had the word emergency in its title. in some amendments it is proposed to change the title of the resolution to use the term 'urgency'. but since the title of our debate on monday evening included the word emergency, we consider that these amendments should be declared inadmissible.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased that the new commission has made the environmental issue one of the major tasks of the legislature and that your first political act is the presentation of a european green pact. two weeks after you took office, it is normal that this plan is, at this stage, schematic. the question now is whether and how this catalogue of commitment and good intentions will be translated into concrete action. for us, four criteria will determine our commitment to the green new deal. first, it will have to ensure that the european union plays its full part in the fight to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees. so far, not only have the union's commitments been insufficient, but they have not been met. to fix the fire requires that, in the next hundred days, we commit to reducing our emissions by 65 percent by 2030. and climate change is just one symptom of humanity's failure to respect the planet's biophysical limits. we must also act without delay on biodiversity, on the issue of resource depletion or on the pollution of nature, a nature on which we simply depend for our lives. secondly, to succeed, the ecological transition must be solidarity-based, it must go hand in hand with a drastic reduction in economic and social inequalities. of course, sustainable production and consumption is more expensive. it is simply intolerable to place the bulk of the cost of transition on those who suffer from poverty, precariousness and degradation. the yellow vests have rightly reminded us of this. similarly, while this transition will create jobs, it will also destroy them. these and those occupying them must benefit from the solidarity of all and this is what the just transition fund should be used for, and only for. there is no question that it is used to compensate shareholders who have decided to opt for fossil fuels. in fact, this fund is only a small part of the just transition response. what we need is a deep transformation of taxation, so that those who have benefited from the fossil age are also those who pay the biggest share of the price of the transition. thirdly, the green deal requires coherence across all public policies. for example, what is the point of spending part of the eu budget on combating climate change if the other part is making the problem worse? similarly, the green pact requires a major overhaul of the common agricultural policy, which is still productivist and geared to satisfying world markets. what, then, of the union's free trade strategy? to increase the trade flows on the planet is absolute nonsense. so, in terms of consistency, madam president, your draft brings up the issue, identifies the contradictions, but is a little too careful, to my liking, to cut them off in a clear way. finally, the fourth point: the green deal has no chance of success if we do not succeed in putting finance back at the service of society. since the 2007-2008 crisis, the predatory dna of the financial sector, at the heart of the ills the green new deal aims to combat, has remained largely unchanged. worse still, the general climate today is one of deregulation, which is totally irresponsible. it is 60 years since scientists first began to establish the link between human activities and climate change. half a century since the club of rome warned us of the deadly danger of unlimited economic growth; thirty years since the rio summit, when jacques chirac told us: our house is burning and we are looking elsewhere; it's been more than 20 years since the first un climate conference, and our greenhouse gas emissions are still rising, and they're still rising, while resources are running out and biodiversity is collapsing. the time has come to fight because to spread this famous european way of life, which you want to promote, to the whole planet, madam president, would require four planets. we have only one, and we depend on it for our survival.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, three points. first, we meet here in exceptional circumstances. we are discussing the sweeping changes to our climate and energy goals brought forward by the european commission no sooner than 10 days since taking up office and before our recent, existing climate agreements have been implemented. this is ambitious, but it is not prudent. point number two. in the ecr we had hoped the new commission would be more cautious than the last one – that it would work with the member states and within the treaties. if you read the treaty’s article 15, it stated very clearly: it is the european council who define the political direction of eu policies. and the european council meets tomorrow to discuss: guess what? the eu’s long-term climate policy. so i ask myself: why are we here today? is the commission trying to seize the initiative, to take away power from the member states? when we look back, we can see that in 2014 the european council unanimously agreed the 2030 targets delivered with compromise after painstaking negotiations. and today’s headline goal of achieving climate neutrality by 2050 should have followed the same path, and member state governments should not be sidelined on something this fundamental. point number three, madam president. in recent months we have heard so much about the green wave sweeping europe. but have you noticed that, when this wave reaches the baltic and travels down the danube, it is not even a ripple? why? because in central and eastern europe we can see through it. we see a confused strategy that prompts more questions than it answers. are the commission’s new climate goals credible and achievable? and what will this do to our industries? you pictured some sort of a paradise – who wouldn’t like to live in a paradise? but will this convince millions of europeans? how have the new commission, in 10 days since taking office, been able to fully understand how dramatically our economies could change as a result of this green deal? have you an idea of the social costs as well as personal tragedies it will generate? point number four, which i wanted to omit, but i will just indicate it briefly. it’s about gas. we see a completely confused strategy here. gas is going to be an essential part of decarbonising in the coming years, and new legislation agreed recently prohibits future investment in gas. this is certainly confusing. so to conclude, madam president. how we move forward has to be credible and achievable, otherwise you can have all the talk and targets in the world, but they will count for nothing if you can’t actually meet them. and when you try to do it by force, the consequences might be disastrous.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, madam president, today's debate is not like any other, we are talking about a fundamental issue that transcends partisan divisions: the survival of human civilization as we know it. we welcome the european commission's move to present its action plan to us, but let us say it right away, any climate initiative will be in vain if it does not tackle the root of the problem: an economic system that leads to both the destruction of our ecosystem and the explosion of inequalities. so some of your proposals, such as on reforestation, state aid or energy efficiency, are moving in the right direction, but your plan is limited to objectives which remain vague, non-binding and unfunded. a sign is not misleading: in your plan, we find many action plans, strategies that are set out, but few actual legislative changes, while we know very well that we will not save the planet with incantations. your plan is also crossed by contradictions that are fundamental and that make some of its objectives ineffective. on energy, how can we be credible without a clear timetable for the exit of coal and gas and further extending an inefficient carbon market? on trade, what are the environmental clauses for if we pursue climate-killing free trade agreements? on agriculture, how can we increase the area devoted to organic farming without reopening the cap negotiations? on transport, how can rail freight be developed by continuing the dismantling of public undertakings? finally, as regards financing, where are the concrete commitments for a kerosene tax, a carbon tax and a plastic tax? as it stands, this plan will not achieve your target of a 50% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, which is already below the efforts needed to meet the paris agreement. worse still - and this is the most important thing for our group - this plan ignores the human and social dimension of the ecological transition, even though - and you yourself have recognized this - the most vulnerable are the first victims of the disaster and it is not the petty just transition fund that will change the situation. this is a major political mistake: we will not solve the climate crisis against the people or by making them pay the highest price, as emmanuel macron tried to do in france. the ecological transition must be made by, for and with the peoples of europe. so, faced with the urgency, europe needs a genuine social and ecological green deal for europe, on a scale not seen since the post-war period. this is the meaning of the counter-project of our group of the european united left, which we are putting on the table today: concrete proposals articulated around ten axes. first, the green deal for europe must set a binding, priority climate law target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 70% by 2030, launch a major investment plan to plan for a 100% renewable energy transition by 2050 and impose binding energy saving targets on businesses. it must also initiate a comprehensive plan for renewing the energy and heating sectors to lift 125 million europeans out of energy poverty; it must revolutionize our agricultural policy by encouraging a peasant model; it must move away from the logic of free trade and dare to adopt a protectionist approach based on solidarity. it must put the central bank at the service of the ecological transition; it must create budgetary margins by breaking free from the shackles of austerity and fighting tax evasion. these are the broad lines of the ecological and social plan which we are putting on the table today, this is what the people and the planet are waiting for, finally a pact for happy days, a pact for the future. you have three months before the final publication of the european union strategy. the european parliament must take up its role and ask the european commission to revise its copy and increase the level of ambition so that we finally change the system and not the planet.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president von der leyen, the objective of climate neutrality by 2050 and the many measures proposed, including the circular economy, reforestation and air quality, still leave many doubts. first, where do we find the financial resources for transformation and for the climate and ecological transition? because the european commission tells us that we will need 260 billion euros a year between now and 2030, and yet the court of auditors, a short while ago, said that we need about 1115 billion a year between now and 2030 to do what we have to do. so i fear, dear president, that we are far from a plan of this magnitude, we are facing an epochal challenge that you yourself compared to the first man on the moon. but are we sure that this european green deal has the resources? you have shown little courage on your own resources: the tax on non-recycled plastic packaging waste and the ets quotas will not be enough. furthermore, can you assure us that we are not talking about alleged leverage effects, such as those promised in your predecessor juncker's plan? and what is the role of the european central bank in tackling the climate challenge? finally, and in conclusion, if we are to take the green investment out of the stability and growth pact seriously, it is an essential reform and one that can no longer be postponed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i welcome the proposal for more ambitious climate targets. if the energy transition is cost-effective, europe has a good chance of building up the global strength of industry. firstly, it is important that the commission now provides for impact assessments for the increase of the 40% co2 reduction target. secondly, the full acceptance of natural gas as a bridging technology is a prerequisite for the conversion of the energy sector to renewable sources. we need this not only as a base load, but we also need intact gas grids for the transformation of wind and solar energy into hydrogen-based solutions. thirdly, we will need to have huge amounts of green imported electricity. negotiations with countries that are destined for solar and wind must begin immediately. the european energy transition must become a key element of european neighbourhood and foreign policy. fourth, the energy transition must be market-based and technology-neutral. in a market economy, the successful ets of industry should also be applied to transport and buildings. technology neutral means allowing innovation. an efficient diesel car is now more environmentally friendly than almost any electric car. tomorrow it will be the other way around, but that is the market's job, not the green ideology. in this sense, i look forward to an interesting debate.
madam president, president von der leyen, vice-president timmermans, the next years are the time window we have to plan out the new economic model that we want to adopt, and the european green deal can be the industrial revolution that puts at its core social rights, workers’ rights, sustainability and our industry’s competitiveness. any plan that is serious about delivering real results needs to be backed up by binding targets and measures, not only at the eu level but at the member state level too. gone are the days when member states want to postpone and defer taking action. to reach carbon neutrality by 2050 we need a 55% co2 reduction target for 2030 and to seriously consider an interim target for 2040. it gives clarity to member states and industries where we want to go and how we want to do it, and no industry should be allowed to hide behind international mechanisms simply to postpone action. all sectors need to contribute, and that includes shipping and aviation too. fossil fuel subsidies should be phased out and stopped. we need policies that direct investments to cleaner technologies across the board and in all sectors. we require innovative ways to generate new money for these investments. we need to discuss how best to mobilise public and private money so the right products are rolled out, good-quality jobs are created, and our current and future workforce is prepared for this transition. we believe that the european green deal has the potential to brand this european commission, and we are ready to work with both of you to deliver socially, economically and environmentally.
there are requests for blue—card questions, but i’m advised that we don’t have time; we’re already running over. so apologies that we cannot take those blue—card questions. i would ask colleagues to stick to their time.
madam president, mr vice-president, today i am proud to be a european, and it is thanks to you that you have presented, in ten days, the largest ecological transition plan for an entire continent. and as the united states withdraws from the paris agreement, we are accelerating, and the renew group will stand with you against all those who want nothing to change and those who would like everything to change tomorrow morning, when we know that it is not possible. and we want to keep this course because it is the only way to lead society, to lead industry, to lead our territories to achieve the goal we have set ourselves: carbon neutrality by 2050. i would stress that we are particularly pleased to see a climate law in 2050, but also a quantified requirement for 2030, as has just been mentioned. we want to reduce our emissions in a legally binding way by 2030 by at least 55%. the second element of satisfaction is that you are changing the rules of trade agreements. from now on, the european union will not sign any trade agreements without incorporating, as an essential clause, compliance with the paris agreement. it is a new way of looking at globalisation, another point of pride, and the renew group will be with you, madam president, mr vice-president.
madam president, mrs van der leyen, what you are proposing would have been great 25 years ago, but we are not 25 years ago. it's 2019, and we're facing catastrophe with our backs to the wall. what we need is a green deal for europe that aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 65% by 2030, not 50% as you propose. respecting the paris agreement is a minimum. what we need is a green deal for europe that turns its back on fossil fuel companies, that gets off carbon and stops all funding, yes all funding, for those who are destroying our planet. half measures threaten our future. you talk about investing, but it's not a trillion euros over ten years that we need to ensure the transition, it's a trillion euros a year. you are not going far enough, because you still imagine that growth is the solution. you are not going far enough, because you still think that we must spare the multinationals, the banks and the system that has led us right into the wall. the green deal for europe must not be a timid development, but a real paradigm shift. we must understand that the economy is not above the laws of nature. a true green deal for europe requires adapting our economy and legal framework to the environmental emergency. strong measures, binding measures, a real duty of vigilance are needed to ensure that governments and companies finally meet their climate obligations. we need a new social and environmental contract, and we cannot afford to fail.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed living in an important time. for the first time in our assembly, all our economic and political choices will have to be subordinated to the science of complex living systems, which is ecology. this leads me to recall that the issue of climate change is not the only one, or even the most important. the poisoning of soil, water and air, the race to say the least encouraged by free trade agreements, are also major problems, but we would point out that the extinction of the diversity of human societies, our common treasure, is probably an ecological problem even more important than the extinction of the diversity of animal and plant species. this leads us to recall that only a state in full possession of its territory is capable of dealing with ecological emergencies. this also leads us to remember that a nation that is a guarantor of its borders, of the identity and unity of its people is also the only one capable of facing the ecological emergency and that, moreover, the family, the place of transmission of responsibility for a territory, which we are striving to pass on to future generations more beautiful, richer and more alive, is the only one capable of helping us to respond to the ecological emergencies. all this leads us to be careful in the future on several points, and first of all, that the biases of regulatory capture do not disadvantage these smes which are the origin of the majority of activity in our territories, to the benefit of multinationals or globalist actors. this also leads us to be careful that behind the green pact for europe there is not the trap of standardizing ways of doing things, practices and production methods, which would destroy our customs, our traditions and the uniqueness of the customs of our territories, which make up the diversity of our societies and which, in some ways, are a response to the energy challenges. finally, as a frenchman, i can only emphasize our attention to the treatment of nuclear waste. civil and military nuclear power are totally linked, it is for us an energy of the future, but it is also, for us, the condition for france's strategic independence and perhaps the pillar of a europe of defence. our debate, ladies and gentlemen, is to make desirable what is desirable and vital. i hope we can rise to the challenge.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have examined the professional background and the broad range of skills of the two candidates proposed to us and i see no reason for me to oppose them which is not also opposed by many members of this honourable council of the ecb. i would like to raise the question of the diversity of this council. secular stagnation, the unrealistic or not realistic nature of a 2% annual inflation target, the proliferation of electronic or virtual currencies, the subject of 'helicopter money' which could lead central banks to encroach not only on the budgetary but also on the social policies of the member states: all these issues are totally new because we are in a new monetary and economic world. all over the world, neoclassical theories have failed. all over the world, theories of globalization and free trade have failed. and all over the world, what made donald trump elected, what just made boris johnson elected, is at work and will be at work in the european union. i believe that the issues of sovereignty and economic nationalism are on the agenda. i believe we are entering a new world of monetary and economic policy. so, when i speak of diversity, i would like to ask this assembly. wouldn't it be necessary to have professionals and experts in the digital economy on the ecb's governing council? political scientists, who would remind us that money the fundamental instrument of sovereignty is still a political instrument an instrument of trust and stability of societies? finally, i would like to mention the issue of ecology: a currency will not be sustainable if it is imposed in a world which is not itself sustainable. i would like to see environmental scientists also taking part in this council, which would increase its diversity.
madam president, we very much welcome this debate and the resolution that this parliament will adopt this week. it is important that the eu plays a key role in the global debate on how to solve the tax challenges created by digitalisation and globalisation. we must ensure that the digital giants pay a fair share of the taxes, and that is not the case today. however, this proposal goes far beyond this and has the potential to update corporate tax rules and make them fit for the 21st century. we cannot govern economic relations in globalisation with the rules that we have from the 20th century. today, transfers between subsidiaries of the same companies are taxed as if they were transfers between two independent companies. this is today at the origin of the sophisticated schemes used by multinationals for tax avoidance. one of the solutions, highly accepted among the economics and academic community, is to tax companies as global entities. the oecd has started to recognise that, as did the commission almost ten years ago with the first proposal for a common consolidated corporate tax base. the first proposal was blocked, as was the second one of 2016. we are still waiting for news from the council on that. we need international negotiations to reach a deal by the end of 2020, commissioner. all eu member states should set aside their differences and speak with one single voice. we need an ambitious deal, not the lowest common denominator – a deal which ensures that companies are taxed where they have the economic activity, meaning where they make sales, have employees and assets, where they have their clients and where they sign online contracts. the expectations of citizens for fairer taxation of multinationals is really high, and a failure of those will further create frustrations, damaging the reputation of our taxation regimes. that is why we call for joint efforts in order to make those international negotiations successful.
madam president, as other speakers have mentioned, there are many positive elements of the oecd’s proposals, not least of which is the fact that that organisation is finally recognising that taxing rights need to go beyond the failed ‘arm’s length’ principle. but there have also been serious criticisms of the proposals, including from developing countries, who are excluded from much of the process, and analysis from tax justice campaigners has found that the oecd approach may actually lower the profits booked in tax havens by just 5%. the biggest problem here – the elephant in the room, so to speak – is the current us position, which puts the project for real reform on very shaky ground. the two pillars of this proposal, if agreed on in the future, will represent a fundamental shift in the global tax system towards a much fairer and more sustainable system. i’ve been warning my own government for years that it needs to end its dangerous addiction to corporate tax avoidance by silicon valley-based companies. last year in ireland, 45% of all corporate tax revenue came from just 10 multinational companies. the member states that have encouraged tax avoidance and benefited from it are in for a rude awakening. they need nothing less than a new industrial strategy. so it’s well past time for people to get real, realise that a major shake-up of this unfair system is inevitable and start preparing for it now before the shock hits, knowing, as we do, that that shock will hit ordinary families and workers hardest of all.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, digital technologies have today ceased to be a player in itself and have become the foundation of all innovative and competitive economic sectors. so it goes - "just a quick look at reality" - from energy to financial services, from manufacturing to transport, from agriculture to tourism, and so on. in this context, tax legislation such as the current one, which was conceived with business models with physical presence in mind, is far from reality. many digital companies now have customers and generate value - as we know - economic value, in countries where they are not present. but, in addition, many of these companies derive their income from intangible assets. in contrast to tax systems based on the principle economies of the last century, we now live in a global world which requires the use of a global prism. in short, it is urgent to adapt the competition rules; in this case we are talking about tax rules, tax rules, but this is not the only time we are talking about one aspect of the principles of competition, because there are many other aspects which are linked to the same situation of digitalisation and globalisation, and we will certainly have occasion to debate them throughout this legislature. we are now talking about tax regulations. the oecd is leading the debate and the european union must not lose sight of something that is fundamental, which is the pulse of leadership. the commission, the successive council presidencies, must have the pulse of leadership, and that is what this parliament and the european citizens expect.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have all heard of the various tax scandals of recent years: luxleaks, the panama papers, and so on. the common feature of these scandals is that multinationals exploit the differences between our tax systems, that we have made little progress in recent years in tax matters at european level - this is an understatement - and that there has been a very significant level of tax and, ultimately, social competition. i heard a colleague say earlier that we should not see multinationals as the enemy. it is not a question of seeing them as enemies, it is just a question of saying that they too must contribute in a fair proportion to the effort of our societies to finance our infrastructure, our social systems, etc. at european level, we lose a trillion dollars a year because of this tax optimisation, this tax evasion. we would need that 1 000 billion more than enough to finance something called the ecological transition, which is a real emergency. that is why the oecd has, among other things, launched this beps 2.0, which aims to do two very simple things, which strike at the corner of common sense. first, to ensure that companies pay their taxes where they make their profits. and the second is that a minimum tax rate should be set at world level. the problem is donald trump and the fact that he's going to oppose this project that would be good for all of us. that is why we are a large majority of parliamentarians calling on the commission to ensure that this project is implemented at european level.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, on behalf of the renew group, i would like to support the disbursement of this third macrofinancial assistance to jordan. we do believe that it can help support that country in its efforts to deal with the instability created by the syrian government in the region. we also recall our commitment to the european union's neighbourhood policy, which is also essential for the stability of our territory. however, while we are in fact fully in favour of this request, we regret that it is in the hands of a rapporteur from the far-right identity democracy group in the european parliament. on behalf of the renew group, made up of committed and convinced europeans, we would like to reiterate loudly in this house our rejection of the destructive eurosceptic ideas promoted by the far right. we also denounce the appalling lack of coherence shown by this political family in rehabilitating bashar al-assad on the one hand and in agreeing to help those who are ultimately its main victims on the other.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, let me first of all welcome the high quality of the work of our colleague, luisa regimenti, who presented this report earlier. it rightly points out how the syrian conflict has disrupted a jordanian society already exposed to major challenges: the reception of the palestinian populations and the control of the influence of the muslim brotherhood, among others. jordan is one of the most serious countries in the region, economically speaking. its currency is preserved and the country is actively working to develop its tourism industry. luisa regimenti also makes a very relevant reference to the strong economic growth amman had enjoyed up to that time. in addition, as a strong defender of eastern christians, the king of jordan has been an exemplary advocate of christian jordanians. the country must therefore benefit from a concerted international solution for the benefit of the iraqi christians and the mandeans, who fled the islamic state organisation and now have to find a place to rebuild their lives. we will give this €500 million loan package to jordan, because this country is bearing the brunt of an international crisis that no one wants to solve. the border between jordan and syria has been open for months now. how can we explain the fact that no international plan for the resettlement of syrian refugees has been drawn up?! ladies and gentlemen, we have an opportunity to renew european policy in the levant, to opt for a strategic policy; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to warn you tonight of the return of a scandal which has affected the health of millions of europeans overseas, in the west indies: the chlordecone affair. article 168 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union refers to a high level of protection of human health. i ask, as a member of the house of representatives, that the european union grant aid to help my fellow antillean citizens who have suffered direct or collateral damage in the chlordecone affair. the use of chlordecone is responsible for many health problems, even though its effects were known to the french government authorities. the commission nevertheless maintained the authorization to use chlordecone between 1972 and 1993 in banana plantations in the west indies. ladies and gentlemen, the health of every european must be a common goal. to this end, funds must be allocated to the victims of the west indies.
mr president, two years ago, a courageous and determined woman, daphne caruana galizia, an investigative journalist, was murdered for having exposed cases of corruption in the heart of the maltese state. it did not target any political party over another; it was not motivated by partisan convictions; it had no personal interest; it was just trying to expose the extent of a widespread system of corruption in an island less populated than some french cities, where almost everyone can benefit from the system. now, what she had discovered and the links between politics, government and corruption are coming to light, and worse, her murder seems to have been covered up at the highest levels of power. this concerns us, the commission, parliament and council, not only because the rule of law is a foundation of our european democracy - we regularly recall this in the case of hungary, poland and other states which are breaking away from the rule of law - but also because this explosive situation in malta has been allowed to develop because of the european union's shortcomings in the fight against tax havens. malta is not the only tax haven in the european union; it should not be possible to buy citizenship in the european union for the price of gold. we cannot just say that it is immoral, but it is legal. no, it must no longer be legal, and if we cannot do anything about it because it is the responsibility of the states, we should at least consider decoupling national citizenship from european citizenship in these specific cases of passport purchases. a whole culture in malta has been built on easy money, the welcoming of oligarchs, the laundering of hidden money, and this seems to have corrupted the institutions at the bottom. the systemic risks are immense today. whatever the political colour of the government, we do not have to distribute the good points and bad points between the different political forces here at european level. we need to question the whole process of the golden passports. we must also reaffirm the need for the rule of law in our european democracy, and this is the second lesson of this tragic history. the commission proposes to create a rule of law mechanism which would include, inter alia, an annual report on the rule of law in each member state. this is a necessary step, because the rule of law would finally become a priority for the european union. today, at the council level, at the commission level and for a decade now, budgetary rules and monetary controls are the only real requirements we have for the member states. it is time for the rule of law to be as important to us as the structural adjustments of the member states. we therefore expect the council and the commission to show the same courage on this issue and the same determination as investigative journalists and human rights defenders throughout europe.
mr president, we were all shocked by the murder of daphne caruana, who was killed on 16 october 2017 in the explosion of her car. she had signed many, many fair articles denouncing the rampant corruption in her country. today, the fear has narrowed around the socialist prime minister, joseph muscat, and the voocracy around him - because it is a voocracy that surrounds him. suspected of protecting his plan in the journalist's murder case, the prime minister announced on sunday that he would resign, but that his resignation would not take effect until january. it's been proven that he interfered with the investigation. and yet we hear little condemnation from the socialists in this house. they should speak out more strongly against this violation of human rights. as for the french socialists, eternal lecturers, almost radio silence. the s&d group is quite easily accommodated by the presence of the so corrupt maltese labour party. it is this government, this majority, this party that trades passports, choosing an immigration of dubious billionaires or almost terrorist essence. but article 7, an illegitimate instrument with a federalist essence, will not be the solution to this crisis. it's the people in the street. it is up to the maltese people to choose their destiny. let this majority not take advantage of a serious and real crisis to push forward a federalist project rejected by the people, as the british vote on thursday reminded us. the maltese prime minister resigned; his whole government must do it, pushed by the people. and new free elections, without the supervision of the european union, must be held in malta.
mr president, for two years now the highest level of the maltese state has been involved in a corruption case and the murder of a journalist who had raised the alarm, daphne caruana galizia. the case revealed the close links between the authorities and mafia organisations, but also the complete bankruptcy of the judicial system of a member state. while the european union and the commission are usually so quick to react and to punish states when they refuse to apply their policies imposed on them and when they refuse to submit to your dictates, their reaction has been so slow in this scandal... the panama papers, tax evasion, money laundering, passports of complacency: there is no shortage of failures in malta, and they cannot be reduced to this one sordid and extremely serious case. while you focus your attention on the so-called populist, democratically elected governments, you turn a blind eye to the mafia practices of certain leaders of the member states and only react when the popular and media pressure forces you to do so. this case should make you cautious about the integration procedures of new states into the union, where corruption, trafficking in all kinds and the mafia are notoriously part of the scene. it should also make you think about how to better protect whistleblowers. edward snowden or julian assange could have realised the cowardice of some governments and european institutions in this matter. we remain the defenders of the sovereignty of the states. the maltese people, who have been demonstrating their courage for months in the streets of the country, are the only ones who have the right to democratically wipe out those in power who continue to engage in such practices.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate our colleagues on the far right, who are true tortugas of press freedom and who today are giving us good lessons. 'without corruption, daphne would still be alive' - these are the words of the husband of murdered journalist daphne caruana. we all agree that this matter must be brought to the light. but beyond the violation of the fundamental rights of the independent press, i would like to think about his family, who are waiting for answers. we all share the responsibility for this murder, ladies and gentlemen. our collective renunciation of corruption also killed daphne. do we have to have more journalists dying for us to talk about it here? who remembers that a very close political adviser to prime minister édouard philippe, also a maltese political adviser, resigned to protect édouard philippe? he will soon be a member of the european parliament. who remembers that malta is ruled by a government of a so-called socialist party, a member of the pse, and whose members of parliament sit in this house? how long are we going to teach backwards lessons, instead of taking urgent action to stem the corruption that threatens democracy, and the free and independent press, and the lives of whistleblowers? i ask you, ladies and gentlemen: how long must we allow journalists to die for exposing the failings of our governments?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a journalist has been murdered, daphne caruana galizia. we must first say, and i think we should say unanimously here, our support for her loved ones, her family, all those who mourn her today. she died for telling the truth. we are all involved, the european union is not an international organisation like any other. we have a common heritage, principles, devotion to freedom of conscience and the search for truth. and when we talk about the rule of law, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate, we do not have the right to selective indignation, we do not have the right to double standards. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, how dare you lecture when you have not been able to say what is essential: the prime minister of malta must resign now. because in that time frame, he can destroy evidence, he can stall an investigation, we know that today. we must all feel concerned about what is at stake here, it is the future of freedom, the future of freedom of the press. the commission and the council have their role to play in ensuring that the rule of law is effectively guaranteed. each of our colleagues should be able to speak clearly on a subject like this and i would also like to put the question to our colleagues in the renew group. there is, among the future french members of parliament who are to be elected here after brexit, a man who worked for mr muscat and who had to resign from his post in france, with the french prime minister. can mr sandro gozi really embody the ideal of a european renaissance today? i am quite sure that in the present context the opposite is true.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, behind the protection of the financial interests of the european union there is another issue, that of consent to the european tax. does the way the european budget is spent strengthen the confidence of our citizens in the project defended in this house? the answer is no, as shown by a eurobarometer survey in which less than one in three french people say they have confidence in the european union. in fact, mrs hohlmeier recalls this very well when she denounces, and i quote, 'the many cases of irregularities which threaten to reduce citizens' confidence in the institutions of the union'. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. how do you want an sme or a local authority to apply for european funding if payment delays are putting the viability of their investment in doubt? the french, who already have one of the heaviest taxes in europe, do not want to be burdened any more by the creation of a new european tax, especially if this tax finances expensive and irregular policies.
madam president, the scandal in the czech republic has re-ignited concern about the proper use of european funds. no less than 705 fraudulent irregularities were reported in the last annual report, amounting to €390 million, and this is only the emerging part of the cases that the states concerned were willing to look into. according to the european court of auditors, the commission does not make any estimates of undetected fraud. less than half of the cases are prosecuted and most of the money is not recovered, a polite way of pointing out the impotence of olaf and the commission. there are illegal frauds, which must be fought. but there is another kind of embezzlement, which is not in these statistics, but which may deserve to be. i am thinking, for example, of the recent use of the eafrd funds to help settle migrants in the countryside, or the crazy pre-accession aid to turkey. such scandals also contribute to reducing the confidence of suspicious people - and they are understandable - in european policies and the use of their money.
mr president, madam commissioner, there are 46 million european women, and they are almost invisible because they are disabled and because they are women: that is double the pain. the inequalities and discrimination they experience on a daily basis are many: prejudice that can be an obstacle to normal schooling, difficulties in finding a job and a career, obstacles to accessing health care, insufficient follow-up in sexual and reproductive health, not to mention that these women are more exposed to physical and sexual violence. commissioner, in order to build an inclusive european society, it is essential that this new strategy incorporates an intersectional gender dimension. we will need data to provide concrete answers and improve their quality of life. our fellow citizens are not asking for more rights, they are simply asking for the same rights.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i too am returning from madrid and i would like to express my mixed feelings because we could have expected more ambition. but the good news is that even though we feared that the ocean would be completely excluded from the final declaration, the chilean presidency has managed to maintain its objective of making this cop a blue cop. it was reinforced by more than 90 events on the importance of the ocean in balancing the climate, and increasingly to show how states can include ocean-based solutions in their national contributions. it's the example of blue carbon, it's all these ocean forests like mangroves, it's marine energy, it's reducing greenhouse gas emissions from shipping. the final text also foresees a dialogue in june 2020 and calls on stakeholders to submit their contributions by 31 march. the european union must mobilise, join the community of ocean friends and integrate a genuine global ocean strategy into the green deal for europe, which i fully support.
madam president, no one can rejoice at the failure of the madrid cop, which also means the failure of the paris cop, since the desired trajectory will not be maintained and we are moving away from the desired objectives. i would ask parliament and the commission to reflect on the reasons for these failures. the great globalist machines no longer work, the unbearable pretence to have a monopoly on the good and to impose universal solutions to do good for the people without them, or even against them, no longer works. that is why we must face our contradictions head on. we cannot continue to sign free trade agreements and then lament the consequences. we cannot continue to adhere to a financialised economy while regretting the damage caused all over the world by the extinction of biodiversity and human diversity. i therefore believe that more modesty, more solutions close to the ground, more efforts directed as closely as possible to smes, which are the economy of our territories, are probably the best thing the european union can do to combat environmental disturbances.
madam president, cop25 did not go as planned. concrete commitments were expected in madrid, but issues such as article 6 of the paris agreement on carbon markets remained open. in any case, i do not think this summit has been in vain. the state of the oceans was addressed for the first time, the greater impact of climate change on women was recognised, the important role of science in the challenges ahead was debated. and this was a cop very much attended by civil society, as i was able to see in madrid: by the young, who were present in numbers never seen before in these summits, but also by the elderly. this is a sign of hope to be taken from madrid. climate action is not just done through measures approved by governments. it requires the mobilization of the whole of society and society is clearly engaged in these battles. it is up to us politicians to recognise and value this motivation.
the european union is not only a great partner in the fight against poverty, but also a partner in the fight against hunger, and it is also a partner in the fight against poverty. as the european union, we have and we are trying to stay ahead of the curve in tackling climate change, by transforming our economy through the green deal and by aspiring to create new and good jobs. but the green deal should particularly support countries and regions that are leading the way in decarbonizing, such as greece, which wants to phase out old plants by 2023 and eliminate coal from its energy mix by 2028. the speed with which european economies decarbonise should be a key criterion for providing support for the transition. the world is watching us, as you say, vice-president timmermans, and we must mobilise all countries to take responsibility - by rewarding the pioneers.
madam president, i would like to thank you. there is no doubt that cop25 was a failure. but then there are ways to deal with it. we can lament that failure and recharge for next year, when we still have a chance to do something. but i hear some colleagues, particularly on the right, pretending to be dissatisfied. but they're actually incredibly happy, because this is what they've wanted all along. they want to stop the clocks. they don't want to be part of the transition to the green society. and there is no doubt about my contempt for their kind of politics. but if any of those right-wingers were in here listening to me, i would give them a chance to change their minds. it's because we're going to launch the green deal this year. you have the chance to be part of the political project towards a new economy, new jobs, new prospects. but when we're debating the important climate issues and when we're debating the green deal, you're not going to be constructive, you're not going to be here to contribute. so be honest and say you're happy with this outcome and meet the voters who are taking to the streets all over the world, look them in the eye and say, we don't care about that.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, let us not be afraid of words: despite the pressure from young people all over the world, cop25 is a fiasco. i'm saying that we should have done the right thing, but the others are irresponsible. it's too easy. first, because our own objectives are not sufficient. to meet the 1.5°c target included in the paris agreement, we need to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by at least 65% by 2030. and we must set this goal as soon as possible, without waiting for cop26, to set an example and have a ripple effect. secondly, because we continue to conclude trade agreements with those whose inaction we are denouncing here. because who doesn't want to raise their standards? the united states, canada, japan, brazil, for example. but who signed a free trade agreement with japan, with canada? who is preparing one with mercosur or the united states? it is you; it is the european commission. so let us not be hypocrites, let us finally put our words and actions in line with this: we have the future of our ecosystem in our hands.
madam president, i join my colleagues in pointing out that the outcome of the madrid conference was not a success. contrary to expectations, governments have unfortunately failed to agree on rules for creating a global carbon trading system and for channelling new funds to countries facing the impacts of climate change. i want to thank the commissioner for being able to uphold the paris agreement, when countries agreed in paris in 2015 to review their climate commitments by 2020. but countries like china, india, brazil have opposed more ambitious commitments, saying that it should now be up to each country and that if stronger wording is to be adopted towards increasing ambition, it will only be if rich countries provide adequate financial support. the european union rejected a different approach to rich and developing countries, saying that the focus should be on the future ambitions of the paris agreement, which applies to all countries. i consider this decision to be the right one.
madam president, since the signing of the paris agreement in 2015, successive climate summits, including cop25, have been disappointing and unable to respond to an increasingly active and interventionist civil society calling for more action and more ambition from policy makers. the european union responded to the call of civil society by presenting the european green deal last week. it was with this commitment that ursula von der leyen and frans timmermans in madrid expressed their desire to transform the european green deal into a global green deal. we didn't get to talk to ourselves, but we had fewer followers than we needed. only 84 countries have committed to presenting more ambitious plans in 2020, following the call of un secretary-general antónio guterres. the absence of agreement on article 6 on carbon markets, which was stalled a year ago in katowice and which was again unable to be unblocked in madrid, was particularly unsatisfactory. this is not a time to give up, but to fight by example, above all by the example of concrete actions. the actions must therefore be financed in a cross-cutting and fair manner. after this summit, the implementation of the carbon tax is more urgent than ever.
madam president, history will record that we were schizophrenic. in the morning we were talking about the climate and tonight we are about to adopt a list of projects of so-called community interest, which will endorse the union's dependence on fossil fuels for several decades. this is in total contradiction to the ecological emergency. at cop25, representatives from tuvalu warned us that denying the millions of victims of global warming was a crime. it's time to be consistent. the failure of cop25 further reinforces the european union's historic responsibility. we must affirm that the laws of economics are not superior to the laws of nature. we must stop seeing our earth as something to be dominated, raped and exploited with impunity. we must recognize, condemn the crimes of ecocide, we must guarantee environmental justice. we have such a huge impact on the world that the climate cannot be saved without us. after the terrible failure of cop25, europe must lead the way.
mr president, tomorrow parliament will probably vote by a large majority to tighten up the european pollinator initiative. when we know that four out of five flowering plants need the help of these insects to produce seeds and fruit, we understand the threat that their decline poses not only to biodiversity and agriculture, but also to humanity. however, this mass extinction and its consequences are not new. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the power to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu in order to amend the list of beneficiaries of the aid. it should be recalled that in 2015, the proposal to reject a pesticide that is dangerous for bees was rejected by parliament, on the pretext that it was a sectarian initiative of my political family. meanwhile, in france, 30 percent of the bees died in one winter because of a lack of protection. in may 2019, the commission again backed down in the face of the agrochemical lobby, which is what motivates today's debate. we shall support this text from parliament. but what time is lost, and how long before the measures requested here are implemented?
mr president, commissioner, we know that there is a proven decline in both the size and diversity of pollinating insect populations in europe, and we know the vital relationship that pollinators have with our own survival. agriculture is a relevant part of this reality, either because of the negative pressures on pollinators or as one of their main activities affected by their decline, and as such cannot but be part of the solution. in this respect, agri-environmental measures in rural development are an important tool in promoting agricultural biodiversity and in conserving and creating habitats favourable to the development of pollinators, but much more needs to be done, and it is essential to ensure that in the next cap rural development interventions are equipped with the resources needed to achieve much more ambitious objectives. it is also necessary to strengthen research and training in this area, monitor pollinator populations, identify the most effective intervention practices, and promote the development of production solutions that protect bees, protect plants and simultaneously meet the production needs of farmers.
mr president, as we are witnessing a dramatic decline in pollinators, due in particular to the use of certain pesticides, this motion for a resolution, which will undoubtedly be voted on tomorrow, is essential because it sets out clearly the objectives to be achieved and the obligations to be met in order to halt this decline. this is a major challenge for the preservation of biodiversity and agricultural production, because without pollinators, our food sovereignty will be in question. with this resolution, we want to send a strong message to the new commissioner today. a few weeks ago, the european commission proposed a draft regulation on the assessment of the impact of plant protection products on bees, which was not sufficiently protective and did not go far enough. in this debate we have already stressed the importance of having appropriate legislation for the protection of pollinators, with increased support for research and innovation, allowing the development of sustainable practices. it is necessary to make this a priority, to find concrete solutions to stop this decline, which would have very serious consequences for our agriculture.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, let me denounce the hypocrisy of this institution on the question of animal welfare during transport to third countries, the hypocrisy of allowing such a crucial debate at such a late hour, when the chamber is empty, precisely to prevent any public discussion on the halal slaughter system. religious slaughter, then, is why animals are transported alive for thousands of miles. as we know, these countries require live animals to be slaughtered in accordance with a specific religious ritual in which the animal must be conscious, not dizzy. these long journeys of several days, with endless queues at border posts outside the european union, are inevitably accompanied by many failures to meet the most basic needs of these animals: the animals cannot drink, there is no food, overloaded trucks and poor ventilation in hot weather, litter soiled with excrement, sick animals dying of exhaustion, dehydration and stress, all without any veterinary controls from one member state to another and from one country to another. when transported by ship, sick or dead animals are thrown into the sea after their identification rings have been removed, so that there is no trace if the carcass of the animal were to wash up on a beach. i would remind you that the current conditions for the transport of live animals from the european union to third countries are totally illegal, in complete violation of the european regulation, which provides for very precise rules in this area. article 3 states clearly that 'no one shall transport or cause to be transported animals in such conditions as to cause them injury or unnecessary suffering'. well, fifteen years after the entry into force of this regulation, nothing has changed, mr president, because this institution does not have the courage to debate the real problem, the religious slaughter.
madam president, the grounding in a romanian port last november of a ship flying the palau flag and carrying nearly 15 000 sheep has reopened the debate on the conditions for transporting live animals. this disaster follows the scandal of the transport of thousands of sheep in the heat of summer by a ship flying the tanzanian flag, in breach of all the rules theoretically imposed in the union. but how could it be otherwise when controls and sanctions remain theoretical, since the main objective of the union is profit at any cost, including the cost of animal suffering? even if the billion animals transported to and from the eu each year were in optimal conditions, what about the terrible survival conditions on the ground and the appalling slaughter conditions in the recipient countries? it must be said that many countries of the union, including my own, france, have no lessons to teach in this matter. they prefer, for electoral reasons and under the pretext of tolerance, to please certain religious and financial lobbies, and thus condemn the animal to die in unbearable suffering. our continent must reverse its priorities: respect for the living over profit. this awareness is paramount; it is a mark of civilization, because putting profit above everything makes the nest of the dishonest. this is not the sterile whining that animals need and that europeans who care about the animal cause want, but it is strong and immediate action. the systematic monitoring of compliance with transport rules is necessary, and these rules are still largely inadequate. the animal, even if it is intended to provide for man's subsistence, is not an object, it is a being endowed by god or nature, according to our convictions, with sensitivity. those who deny it for financial reasons only see the animal as a source of profit, and they have to pay the price, the immediate and definitive ban on their breeding, transport or slaughter activities. the rest is just gossip and hypocrisy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the question of the fate of animals exported from europe to third countries is not trivial and only confirms the ideological compromises of the commission. if there is a willingness to take care of animal dignity, we can see that it is willingly sacrificed to electoral and financial interests. to a written question i submitted in november on ritual slaughter, the answer was, and i quote: 'the european union must take full account of animal welfare requirements and implement certain european union policies, while respecting, in particular, religious ritual practices'. in this reply, the commission is therefore yielding to reasonable accommodations and to community and religious pressure. in reality, most of them are trying to balance the two. on the one hand, with european citizens who are overwhelmingly committed to animal welfare, and on the other hand, with the interests of financial and religious lobbies, for whom this issue is secondary if not prohibitive. the truth is that some of the countries to which our meat is sent do not respect basic health or moral standards and are not held accountable for this. weakness with external partners is, after all, just another manifestation of the european union's weakness in the face of internal pressures. we remain convinced that the export of our animals must be subject to their welfare and to decent transport conditions.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? we humans are sentient beings and intelligent beings. it's a commitment. we have a responsibility to the animals. and every year, millions of animals are transported from the eu to countries beyond our borders, including the middle east and north africa. the purpose is to slaughter the animals or sell them alive, and we know that these transports are often hell on earth for these animals. many times the animals are dehydrated and hungry or are crushed to death in these transports. we also know that dying animals, young animals that need their mothers, are included in these types of transport. the previous commission said that it would give priority to animal welfare. but even so, countries get away with it, controls are not enforced and we did not see clear progress with new animal rights rules. i have high hopes for the new commission, that you will be more proactive and that you will feel for animals and take on the moral responsibility that we humans have.
i have to say, madam president, the humanity of a society is measured by the way it treats its animals. it is not possible that cattle, sheep and pigs are sometimes crowded together for more than 20 hours, deprived of water and food in the heat, and transported in the most miserable conditions. because cattle resist slaughter in religious rites, their eyes are often gouged out and their tendons are severed. such abuses are unworthy of the eu. i find it absurd that animals are sometimes transported over 1,000 kilometres just because live transport is cheaper than refrigerated transport. the citizens are fed up with this cruelty to animals tolerated by the european commission. we have to stop this.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to agree with most of you. every animal that is transported suffers, even if it's a short distance, let alone thousands of miles. i also think it is completely unnecessary, of course, to transport live animals instead of chilled meat thousands of kilometres away, to third countries. i think that's a practice that should be abandoned. the european union has very strict standards, and yet what happened is that 14,600 sheep died in a romanian port. it is quite certain that the carrier did not comply with the conditions, because otherwise such a disaster could not have happened. i would join those who say that we are not calling for new regulation but for the actual enforcement of existing regulations and for consideration of the actual restriction of exports of animals to third countries. even though i know it's a big business, and i wish farmers the income they need, but this is disproportionate and we should try to support our farmers in another way.
madam president, i am a farmer myself and i am ashamed and scandalized by such transport conditions. it is an insult to the bond between farmers and animals, and that bond elevates the farmer first. how can humans commit such horrors, for purely economic reasons, at the expense of animal welfare? however, i am far from the idea that we should abolish livestock farming, which is sometimes necessary, often necessary, not to say always necessary for the balance of certain territories. we must therefore build alternatives to these transport situations and to transport itself, based on local slaughterhouses, based on mobile slaughterhouses, based on on-farm slaughter, which would achieve a situation acceptable to the animals, to the farmers and to the consumers.
member of the commission. – madam president, now, i’ve listened closely to your interventions and i want to try and address at least some of the points raised. concerning the question on romania: no definitive investigation of the circumstances leading to this accident have been completed. initial investigations point to problems with the stability of the ship, and romania is undertaking an independent investigation in accordance with maritime safety rules. the services of commissioner vălean will be monitoring the outcome of this investigation. i also carefully listened to your concerns on the transportation of live animals, and i promise to speak with my colleague, commissioner wojciechowski, on this – on how to create better conditions under the cap. now, concerning imports: yes, we do need to continue to work with trading partners and international organisations on animal welfare, and on campaigns in third countries. colleagues are regularly sent to third countries under the ‘better training for safer foods’, and this will be continued. finally, in response to the questions posed by mep hazekamp: i want to be absolutely clear that we have no doubts that all member states must fully implement our rules as well as assure the welfare of our animals, and this is the only way to have a level playing pitch. now, over the past three years, the commission has audited member states on road and sea transport to non-eu countries, and, at the request of my predecessor commissioner andriukaitis, the commissioners’ services carried out an audit in romania at the end of september specifically on animal welfare during sea transport. the audit report is currently being drafted and will be published on the commission website once it’s finalised, and we’re absolutely going to be transparent on our findings. we will, equally, be transparent on the follow-up, and we will ensure that our recommendations are acted upon. and if we are not satisfied by the actions taken, i can only assure you that we will use all the means at our disposal – including legal proceedings if necessary – to address this problem. i have said from the very beginning that almost 15 000 sheep perishing in the sea is a shocking failure for our ethical values. when we take charge of animal destinies, we have a responsibility, and there is no room for shortcomings. these are sentient beings and they suffer when they are mistreated. when we transport animals, we must treat them with care and respect, and this is our duty and our responsibility. by working together, we can improve transport conditions for animals leaving the european union by road, and by working together, we must now improve conditions for animals transported by sea. to this extent, we acknowledge that there are issues, and in my view, revision of the legislation needs to be considered in the context of farm-to-fork. together we must prevent similar tragedies from happening, and we must exert all our efforts together in order to promote animal welfare.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, to conclude, i wish to thank you for this very useful debate on animal welfare conditions during transport to third countries. we are sure that the conclusions on animal welfare which the council adopted just yesterday will make a meaningful contribution to further discussion on this very important issue. i’m convinced that there will be a lot of added value to the future discussions on animal welfare. finally, let me also emphasise that the council very much welcomes the assessment of the 2012-2015 eu animal welfare strategy which is due to be published at the end of next year. we look forward to this publication and invite the commission to work on a new strategy in light of the outcome of this assessment. thank you very much for your commitment to this very important matter. we will certainly continue work on this field.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on enabling the digital transformation of health and care, by bartosz arłukowicz, sara cerdas, frédérique ries, margrete auken, luisa regimenti, joanna kopcińska, kateřina konečná, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000042/2019 – b9-0062/2019) (2019/2804(rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all, i would like to thank everyone for the opportunity to have this very important discussion. we need to have the right means to keep our citizens healthy. digitalisation can be a game changer in this respect, because it can bring concrete benefits to patients and to healthcare professionals. it has the potential to provide cost—effective, high—quality healthcare and to reduce inequalities. all of us here are committed to fostering the digital transformation of health and care in a way that is inclusive and places the patient at its centre. health data and how it can be securely shared, in full respect of eu protection standards, is critically important to achieve this transformation. for the patients, we need to ensure that europe has a framework that supports them and their health providers directly, ensures that citizens have control over their personal data, facilitates research and supports the development of digital medical services, diagnostics and services. you can all rest assured that the creation of a european health data space to promote data exchange and support research will be an important part of my health agenda. to this extent, i will be working closely with the commissioner for the internal market, thierry breton, as well as executive vice—president margrethe vestager and vice—president schinas to move forward in this endeavour. the commission’s vision was first set out in the 2018 communication ‘enabling the digital transformation of health and care in the digital single market’. the aim is to encourage member state action on e—health, while ensuring that citizens have secure access to their comprehensive electronic health data everywhere in the eu. since then, important progress has been made. earlier this year, for the first time, five member states began exchanging e—prescriptions and patient summaries through the ehealth digital service infrastructure, supported by the connecting europe facility. over 5000 e—prescriptions have been dispensed so far, and this clearly shows that we can have continuity of care across boundaries. the commission also adopted the recommendation on a european electronic health record exchange format to improve the ability to share data between systems and enable citizens access to their own electronic health records. these actions will continue as we move ahead with the creation of the eu health data space, supported by the proposed digital europe programme. whilst data is a key enabler for digital systems’ transformation, we also need to be aware that it does present a number of challenges. it is essential that data protection and cybersecurity considerations are built in from the design phase, in order to protect patient confidentiality, enable them access to their data safely, and protect the integrity of systems. the commission has taken a number of important steps on this. firstly, patient data is protected and secured through the requirements of the general data protection regulation. secondly, health is one of the key sectors covered in the eu’s first cybersecurity legislation: the directive on security of network and information systems. earlier this year, we recommended that member states develop national digital health networks to bring cybersecurity and the relevant expertise into their digital health systems. thirdly, we encourage member states to put in place secure electronic identification or authentication approaches for the health sector. collectively, these measures will help build trust—based systems. the commission proposes to underpin them with major investments, and eur 2 million is foreseen for developing cybersecurity in the eu – including the health sector – as part of the digital europe. another major challenge that you have mentioned is skills development. digitisation must reduce inequalities and not create a digital divide. under the next multiannual financial framework, the commission is proposing eur 700 million under digital europe for developing advanced digital skills. this will support training for healthcare professionals and help citizens develop digital literacy. the european social fund and research programmes will include important projects and programmes to support this. so empowering citizens to manage our own health is a key priority of the digital transformation agenda, and over the next five years, i hope to be working with member states to ensure that europe makes real progress on digital health. finally, our progress on digital health and data exchange and research under the european health data space will be important for the successful delivery of our other health priorities, such as our europe’s beating cancer plan. i hope that you will be here with us, because we will be launching this plan together on 4 february 2020 with you in the european parliament. we are therefore fully committed to supporting this transition and making the most of the potential of e-health. i really look forward to working closely with you on this important issue.
for the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, thank you for your rather extensive speech, it was very moving. i agree with you that if we enable the digital transformation of health and care in the digital single market, then we will move the quality of healthcare and also the accessibility of healthcare in the european union to a higher level. of course, there are a number of related issues to keep in mind, particularly in terms of privacy, security and data protection. i find the idea of creating a european health data area, which would facilitate the transfer of health data and support research into prevention, treatment, medicines and shared outcomes, very beneficial. we want to support patients more effectively, provide them with better information and help them better orientate themselves in the healthcare system, their rights and the healthcare services provided. in this regard, it is necessary to find an appropriate way to ensure access to and sharing of personal health data, to facilitate communication between healthcare providers and other organisations in the individual member states. commissioner, it is important that the commission, in cooperation with the member states and the relevant regional authorities, also focus on educating citizens on the use of digital healthcare. to this end, it will be necessary to improve the interoperability of the healthcare system and to develop this issue further with the help of european funding instruments, such as, of course, the european structural and investment funds, the european fund for strategic investments.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. however, healthcare providers are having difficulty making decisions about changes in procedures and business practices. furthermore, many health-care workers are wary of digital technologies, fearing that they will increase their workload or mislead them into making false diagnoses. on the other hand, patients show far more enthusiasm for new technologies, but this is not true for all demographics. computer literacy is an insurmountable obstacle for a large proportion of the older population. statistics show that 14% of european adults did not use the internet in 2016, while a third of adults said they did not know how to access the internet via mobile phones. despite the progress and wealth of the european union, a significant proportion of the population is not computer literate, which certainly contributes to the skepticism towards digital solutions in healthcare. furthermore, it opens up the possibility of data misuse and other undesirable consequences. as a doctor, i've had cases where a patient has fainted from shock and fear because her digital blood pressure monitor was set incorrectly and showed her blood pressure was 0. in conclusion, i believe that raising the level of computer literacy among healthcare professionals and users is key to the successful digitalisation of european healthcare.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, you are right to stress that it is crucial for the european union to have a strategy to support the digital transformation in the field of health. the digitisation of health systems is enabling considerable advances in many areas: prevention, with connected objects; care, with telemedicine; i am thinking, for example, of the management of shortages and the problem of research, particularly in the field of cancer. our group would like to stress three essential points in the field of digitalisation: data confidentiality, data sharing and interoperability between the different member states and, of course, the ethical dimension. but these three ambitions are not necessarily easy to combine. for example, a balance needs to be struck between the anonymisation of data on the one hand and the sharing of data by the different health actors on the other. the balance must be struck between data protection and the absolute need for scientific research to have big data. a very sad illustration of this was the sale of medical data to gafam from poorly secured sites. commissioner, we expect a lot from the european health data area to help us solve this problem. a balance must be struck between decision-making algorithms and the need to preserve the human dimension of medicine. the balance must be struck between empowering patients, as you have said, but also making patients vulnerable to infox. finally, and most importantly - as the previous speaker has pointed out - we must ensure that what is a technological advance for some does not become a stumbling block for others, because they are too old, too isolated or have too low a level of education. we are counting on you to be vigilant on these points.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with the digitalisation of health and care systems, the stakes are high. the aim is to promote health at european level, prevent and combat disease, help to address unmet patient needs and facilitate equal access to high-quality care for citizens through the judicious use of digital innovations. health issues are of course a matter of national policy in each member state, but if we want systems to be interoperable between member states, a single european format for exchanging computer data is necessary. this includes patient records, electronic prescriptions, laboratory results, medical imaging, hospital discharge reports. to make this europe of health, we must first of all help financially those member states which do not yet have sufficient digital development, set a concrete timetable and objectives, and improve the information of the european patient on the price of medicines within the european union. this is all the more important for patients with rare diseases who need to be treated in a member state other than their own. finally, ensure - and this has been said - that private information is protected so that it is used in the exclusive interest of patients. the digitisation of health and care services is a real opportunity for european citizens and for the europe of health, which must become a reality.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, it is a strange feeling for us to be celebrating the anniversary of the lisbon treaty, when it should not have been adopted following the results of the referendums in france, the netherlands and ireland. the brutal sacking of greece has confirmed the violently anti-democratic nature of the current european institutions and the need to change them in depth to address the two challenges of our time: climate change and inequality. the annexation of the charter of fundamental rights to the treaty could not be sufficient to achieve social justice within the european union, because, unfortunately, as the treaties stand, the charter remains a mere shell of a soulless market. these treaties are not the word of god, of course, and we must be able to question them without taboos and assume that the new social and ecological green pact will not be able to be implemented with the necessary power in the present framework. investment in the ecological transition is constrained by the golden rule which also breaks our social protection systems. we see this in france with the breakdown of our pensions, which was encouraged and supported by the european commission and which caused a historic mobilization, again this week. we also see this with the widespread dumping which is encouraged by the dogmas of free trade and free competition. the fight against tax evasion is also made impossible or extremely difficult as long as european tax havens, such as ireland or luxembourg, have a veto right. these treaties are being used as a pretext for refusing to act, they are wasting our time when we have to implement a revolution unprecedented since the post-war period. these outdated rules must be put to the test, and this is the occasion with the conference on the future of europe. we need stronger democratic control with mandatory consultation of the people, a right of initiative for parliament, transparency of the council's debates, zero tolerance for lobbies. we need founding principles that are appropriate for the times, a green rule that protects natural resources, universal access to the commons, sanctified public services, solidarity protectionism. we need a renewed collective project based on social and fiscal harmonization from above, in short a pact for harmonious and sustainable progress rather than growth and stability, a central bank at the service of the ecological transition and the new green pact. this is what would reconcile the peoples of europe with the very idea of european cooperation. this would enable us to respond to the urgencies of our time. that is the lesson we should learn on this anniversary of the treaty of lisbon.
madam president, 237 billion is the gaping hole that separates the states from parliament on the 2021-2027 budget. with its proposal, finland has increased divisions, because it satisfies neither a majority of states which, like parliament, want more, nor a minority which want less. and that is not to mention the commission's new ambitions, which are obviously shared by all to make europe a power capable of meeting the challenges of the 21st century. where to find the money is another matter. mr president michel, the heads of state and government have entrusted you with the responsibility of solving the problem of squaring the circle. no doubt you'll spend a few nights there. the first exchange we had last night was extremely fruitful and it is auspicious; we're ready to go with you. because parliament has the answer to this 27th degree equation: own resources. yes, europe needs to regain its financial autonomy. yes, the union needs new own resources which contribute to our policies and provide room for manoeuvre. and it is at this intersection that the states, the commission and the european parliament will meet. the own resources that some states do not want are not the problem, they are the solution. and that is why we will not give our agreement without making progress on this matter.
mr president, yes, i am the one in seat 213. reminder to the rules of procedure it appears that it is not for the president of the sitting to decide whether or not a check should be implemented in the rules of procedure. it is clear that if the members of parliament ask for an audit, it is right.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when homophobic acts are on the increase in our society, where insults, spitting, threats and physical attacks are becoming a daily occurrence for the majority of people because of their sexual orientation, you seem to be taking stock of the consequences of your policy. unfortunately, your narrow-mindedness in terms of immigration policy distracts you from the real issues involved. while homosexuality is punishable by death in many countries in sub-saharan africa, a german study in 2015 revealed what many of us already knew: the link between religious fundamentalism and homophobia. it explained the strong rejection of homosexuals and transgender people in what leftist ideologues call neighborhoods, which are in fact only territories confiscated by a politico-religious ideology. what has changed since then is the massive importation, through a mad and uncontrolled migratory flow, of people from countries for which religious dogma is the supreme norm. i would therefore ask you, will the commission finally deal with the ... (the president withdrew the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in july this year, gazeta polska, one of the leading newspapers in the country and a supporter of the current polish government, distributed stickers 'lgbti-free zone'. as a result, several local authorities in poland decided to declare themselves "free from lgbti ideology" - that's what the reactionaries call the ideal of equality. poland is not an isolated case, it is a real crusade against equality that is taking place all over europe. because homophobia, which has become an institutional policy in several countries of central and eastern europe, must not make us forget the homophobia that is also exploding in western europe, where acts of hatred are constantly multiplying: insults, widespread discrimination, attacks, murders. human rights are universal and indivisible, those who attack the rights of lgbti people are also those who attack the rights of women, those who attack the rights of foreigners and migrants, those who attack the economic, social and cultural rights won by workers. an attack on some rights is always an attack on all others. this resolution condemns the offensive against lgbti rights in poland; i agree, of course.
mr president, while condemnation of the violence suffered by homosexuals because of their sexual orientation should be able to gather a broad consensus, including our delegation from the national assembly, the text voted today exploits this problem and requires our opposition. this resolution is a further opportunity for you to attack a polish government which, on other issues, has not taken the liberal approach you demanded. furthermore, this text wrongly equates the rejection of lgbti ideology with homophobia, including the legitimate opposition to gender theory, lgbtp and gpa. it wrongly blames populists for homophobic acts and rhetoric. at the same time, he does not link immigration and the influence of islam with the rise of homophobia in europe, although statistics show this. we reject any form of violence against homosexuals, but we do not accept that you use this subject to convey your ideology and attack again a democratically elected polish government.
mr president, since 2002, apple should have paid at least €16 billion more in taxes in the european union. french luxury giant kering, which owns gucci and saint laurent, would have had to pay an additional €2.5 billion. why do these multinationals evade tax? because you'd have to be an idiot to keep paying for it when so many countries are reaching out to you with turnkey tax evasion schemes. competition from tax havens and the flaws in global tax rules have led to a deadly race to the bottom, which the european union has failed to stop, and has even encouraged. however, member states have a historic opportunity to influence ongoing negotiations at the oecd to reform these tax rules which allow multinationals to avoid paying their fair share of taxes. in this resolution, parliament calls on them to be ambitious and to advocate real measures of fiscal justice, a minimum corporate tax rate and a fair distribution of taxable rights in the countries. but that's not all. without tax transparency or a credible list of tax havens, multinational companies will continue to play with the tax rules and european citizens will pay the price.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our trade and imports must not be a hindrance to our collective fight against climate change. the mercosur agreement is to open up our market by removing customs duties on 92 per cent of mercosur goods exported to the european union. and that is the question of fairness. to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, we are requiring our european companies to make additional efforts to reduce their co2 emissions. we cannot penalize them by favouring imports which would not have the same constraints. the green deal's carbon border adjustment mechanism must be implemented quickly, with simple rules that are understandable and applicable to all. of course, we must reject unfair competition. how can we justify imposing ever more stringent standards on our farmers, while opening our doors to farms that do not comply with them? we must ensure that european consumers respect our health standards - this is a matter of public health - while ensuring that our manufacturers and farmers have a fair market. finally, and this is not the case in this agreement, we must impose sustainable resource management by introducing binding clauses in our trade, in compliance with the paris agreements on climate and forest protection, as we said during the debates on the amazon forest fires. i cannot support an agreement which does not meet the requirements and constraints announced just a few days ago by president ursula von der leyen in the framework of the green pact, which must be our guideline.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i’d like to extend to high representative mr borrell a very warm welcome from this house and on behalf of the s&d for your first session in your new capacity. we look forward to working with you on a strong european union foreign policy. china has so far been one of the most important partners of our union and a central member of the international community, but this does not mean that we can turn a blind eye to grave human rights violations. about one million uyghurs and ethnic kazakhs are being detained without trial and without charges, often for no other reason than being a muslim. earlier today, the european parliament awarded to ilham tohti the 2019 sakharov prize. mr tohti is a leading uyghur intellectual, economist and scholar whose only offence was to advocate for peace and the rights of the uyghurs. he has been sentenced to life imprisonment and could not come to strasbourg to receive the prize. today he was represented here by his brave daughter, jewher, and we call – let it be clear – for the immediate and unconditional release of ilham tohti. xinjiang province has turned into a major centre of mass surveillance for ethnical, cultural, religious and social control. every single aspect of daily life is being monitored. once detained, uyghurs are forced to give up their religious and cultural identity. this is standard practice in the so—called re—education camps. china has committed itself to the international human rights framework. we have the duty to call on the chinese government to release all those currently detained, and without any charges. all mass detention camps must be shut and perpetrators of the massive human rights abuses must be brought to justice. we also expect the eu to be ready to adopt targeted sanctions against those responsible.
on behalf of the renew group. – for over two decades, ilham tohti has worked tirelessly to foster dialogue and understanding between uyghurs and han chinese. as a result of his efforts, he was sentenced in september 2014 to life in prison following a two-day show trial. i’m very happy now that he has received the sakharov prize this year and that he’s the new sakharov laureate. but he’s not the only one suffering under the chinese government. the uyghur people have been subjected to unparalleled repression by the chinese government in the past two years due to their unique ethnic identity and religious beliefs. since april 2017 over one million innocent uyghurs have been arbitrarily detained in a network of internment camps, where they are forced to renounce their ethnic identity and religious beliefs and swear loyalty to the chinese government. i am deeply concerned about their situation. the european union needs to demand that the chinese authorities respect their fundamental rights and freedoms. we should impose sanctions for human rights violations. the chinese government has to immediately end the practice of arbitrary detentions, close all the camps and detention centres, and release the detained persons. furthermore, we want the chinese authorities to allow free access to xinjiang province autonomous region for journalists and international observers. we cannot stand by and have normal business with china while these appalling human rights violations are taking place. in my view, this is probably the most serious human rights violation that is taking place in the world at the moment. we hope the award of the prize will lead to the release of ilham tohti and, thereafter, lead to a change in approach by the authorities of china in upholding human rights.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i want to thank mr borrell for some clear words on behalf of the eu. the policy of the chinese communist party towards the uyghurs has never been liberal, but in 2014 a totalitarian turn was taken in xinjiang that has created the worst police state that we have on the globe today. this extreme policy is even encountering some internal opposition, as we learn from the china cables, and i think that for a nation of such great cultural tradition as china, it is shameful to implement such policies. fighting terrorism is necessary, but it’s not an excuse for fighting people who want to think as they want, who want to speak as they want, who want to worship as they want. we strongly believe that it’s time to end the lies, to end the excuses and to end the distractions, and to close the camps. we, as europeans, must also be active beyond just voicing critical words. that’s why this parliament calls for the halt of exports and the tech transfer of products and services that are used to enhance cyber surveillance. this is why this parliament asks that forced labour from internment camps must not be allowed to enter into eu-based companies’ value chains, and as has been said before, the products of forced labour must be banned from the european markets. we call on all eu-based companies to draw clear red lines. they are running a high reputational risks if they don’t implement a robust human rights due diligence system that makes sure that they’re not implicated in acts of repression. we also need a human rights sanctions mechanism, as you have discussed with the foreign ministers in the foreign affairs council, and we need that expeditiously. let me make a last sentence that alludes to ilham tohti, our sakharov laureate. he is not allowed to see his family. he hasn’t seen his family for two years, even though chinese law guarantees that. i think we should all insist that his family should be allowed to know where he lives and to see him.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i welcome mr borrell, high representative / vice-president, to parliament. despite experiments in the domain of the economy, china is still a communist state massively intimidating large groups of its own society. since the november 2019 leakage of the so-called china cables, the level of intimidation in the xinjiang autonomous region is more than clear to all of us. of course detention camps are not places of voluntary work. of course there is massive surveillance with all technical means. we require decisive action on the part of the eu. mr high representative, this requires real resolve from our side. i call for a shutdown of camps, as well as targeted sanctions against those responsible for the perpetration of intimidation.
madam president, distinguished high representative, distinguished colleagues, imagine a society where an artificial intelligence uses automatic algorithms and facial recognition to decide who should be arrested and put in an educational camp. these students, who are prisoners in fact, are not allowed to have free contact with the outside world, are subject to constant surveillance, are forced to study mandarin and undergo ideological re-education in order to be better assimilated into the fabric of the people's republic of china. depending on their results, they are then assigned a social score that will determine their status for the rest of their lives. it's like the plot of a dystopian movie with a plot where something went wrong and humanity at some point took a wrong turn. instead, it's all real and happening today in 2019 in xinjiang, where more than a million uighurs are undergoing a continuous pervasive indoctrination, which is aimed at eradicating an entire culture deemed dangerous by the chinese communist party. we want immediate and targeted sanctions against those responsible for these grotesque violations and a strong review of the dual-use legislation on the export of technologies that enable preventive profiling. thanks to china-cables, an uncomfortable truth that we already knew, but that the chinese authorities continued to deny, is now exposed in its dramatic form. our character as a people will be determined tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, by our ability to oppose this state violence with all our strength, as ilham tohti has done, who is now suffering the consequences of this opposition in his cell because of his great courage. i strongly supported his candidacy and his winning the 2019 sakharov prize, which was awarded to him today, because i believe it is a moral duty to fight alongside these champions of freedom, so that he can return soon to embrace his daughter as well.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking the vice-president and high representative, mr borrell, for what he said at the beginning of this debate and also for being present at the award of the sakharov prize. that was a political signal. the political signal to beijing is also that we rarely see the house as a whole sharing the same criticism of the situation in xinjiang, from the far right to the far left, and that should give us pause. i think the message we are sending is clear: release ilham tohti! stick to your own constitution and your own law when it comes to prisoners having rights, like visiting their families. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i think a big country like china doesn't need to treat a small minority in this way, because the uighurs don't want anything that threatens china's stability. they are only asking for the right that belongs to every group of the population, and for that reason they rightly have our full support.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the recent china cables have once again shown us the ruthlessness with which the chinese government is persecuting people in the xinjiang region for their faith and working to erase their identity. these are the worst and cruelest human rights violations we are witnessing in our time. i expect you, mr borrell, and the member states, to continue to find clear words to the chinese leadership and to clarify matters, as you have just done: to advocate the immediate closure of the re-education camps and the access of independent experts to the region to clarify the abuses. we call on international companies operating in xinjiang to investigate immediately their involvement in human rights violations and to take appropriate action. yes, we do not want products of forced labour in the european union and we must ensure that they do not gain access to the eu. it is very important to me that we always and unanimously emphasize that respect for human rights and the rule of law are indisputable preconditions for further deepening relations between the people's republic of china and the european union.
madam president, i’d like to welcome the high representative whom i remember in the other seat on the podium, a couple of years ago. this case is going to be the first big test case for the new geopolitical commission. last month a brave uyghur dutchwoman helped leak chinese government documents, and the china cables show that massive data collection and artificial intelligence are now the tools of totalitarianism. i think this should be a warning to ourselves as well that these instruments, if they exist, can and will be used. so maybe we should also be a bit more careful. today we gave the sakharov prize to ilham tohti as a political signal of where europe stands. unfortunately, it is not the first time that we give the sakharov prize to freedom fighters in china. so now europe has to follow up and demand the release of the uyghur people held in the camps, because that’s what they are. i’ve heard many good suggestions by colleagues on how to proceed, but we also have a new instrument at our disposal and that is the eu—wide magnitsky act that was endorsed last week by the council. so, mr borrell, will you make sure that the european magnitsky act will become a reality without delay? will you also see to it that the list will not be voted by unanimity so that no country has a veto, and will you also include survivors of severe human rights breaches, ngos, the european parliament and national parliaments when drawing up that list? in conclusion, will europe become a new geopolitical superpower for human rights and freedom?
madam president, all this is unacceptable. despite the continuous call by the international community and the recent publication of documents proving the shameful repression taking place in the xinjiang uyghur autonomous region, the chinese government shows an absolute indifference, and continues to violate human rights and fundamental freedoms. it is absolutely disconcerting that a country like china, which increasingly aspires to become a credible and reliable interlocutor in the global context, must show such a serious violation of fundamental rights. as if that were not enough, china continues its activity of persecution of uyghurs and other minorities outside the national borders. this must provide us appropriate reflections and countermeasures. the award which was given to today to professor ilham tohti is an award that goes and not only to him but to every uyghur citizen who is fighting this madness. as europeans, we all must defend with all our strength the rights of the uyghur minority in the xinjiang region, as in all the countries of the united nations. the initiative must not be left to the individual member states but efforts must be shared to be effective.
madam president, the credible reports that have reached us on the treatment of uyghurs and other minorities in xinjiang are indeed deeply worrying. three points are now, from my point of view, of utmost importance. firstly, the practice of arbitrary detentions without any charge, trial or conviction for a criminal offence of uyghur or other muslim minorities must be ended immediately and the detained persons should be released unconditionally. secondly, the authorities in beijing should allow free and unhindered access to xinjiang for journalists and international observers, including the united nations high commissioner for human rights. and thirdly, the full details of persons disappeared in xinjiang should be released and handed over to their families. in their joint statement issued after the 21st eu—china summit, the eu and china reaffirmed that all human rights are universal, indivisible, interdependent and interrelated, so it’s up to beijing to put these words into action. i welcome, mr high representative/vice—president, your clear words this afternoon, and i welcome the draft resolution we will adopt tomorrow noon – especially the call for targeted sanctions.
madam president, this debate is not against china or the chinese government. this debate is about protecting human rights, and today i want to pay special tribute to ilham tohti, who was recently awarded with a sakharov prize. ilham tohti is a renewed human rights defender, economics professor and advocate for the rights of the chinese uyghur minority. for over two decades, he worked tirelessly to foster a dialogue and a better understanding between uyghurs and han chinese. as a result of his activism, he was sentenced to life imprisonment in 2014. since then, he is behind bars. mr borrell, i call first for the release of ilham tohti from prison, and second, for the persecution of the uyghur minority in china to stop.
madam president, recent history reminds us that, when a religious minority is suffering and it’s being unjustly treated, the consequences are felt sooner or later as a papillon effect: the storm is created at the other side of the world. the situation of the uyghur is highly worrisome, and i sincerely welcome this debate. i also applaud the recognition of the european parliament for the deteriorating circumstances these people are living in, by granting the sakharov prize to ilham tohti for his persistent fight to defend the rights of the uyghur. i would like to point out an increasing trend. today we are debating about the inhumane situation of the muslim minorities. tomorrow we will convene to discuss the persecution of christian minorities in burkina faso. at the last strasbourg plenary session, we discussed the intolerant approach against catholics and protestants in algeria. this house clearly recognises that freedom of religion and belief is one of the cornerstones of modern and tolerant society. therefore, i propose that the european commission and european external action service follow this opinion by including the concept of interreligious dialogue in their official communication strategy as a tool to foster peace and reconciliation in its external action policy.
madam president, you read the koran, you go to camp; you wear a beard, you go to camp; you send wishes for the eid, you go to the camp. this is the terror that is falling on the uighurs of china right now, and the great silences allow for the great crimes. it is clear that the world has been very silent so far. we have broken that silence by awarding the sakharov prize to ilham tohti, but that is not enough. we must now act, we must impose sanctions on the chinese leadership who are directly involved in what is now the largest mass internment policy in the world. sanctions must also be imposed on the companies which participate in this concentration policy. and finally, european companies must exercise their duty of vigilance, and in particular textile companies must not benefit from what is now an unacceptable policy.
madam president, we can call them whatever we want. as we do in beijing, we can even call them re-education camps. but it is in a concentration camp that one in nine uighurs now live, a million people in all. we must be outraged, but that is not enough. we must also remind china's leaders that there is no true power without responsibility. this world needs china because without it there is no hope of ending the anarchy of the international stage, nor of returning to the negotiated compromises without which there is no stability. humanity would need to rely on you, you who rule china. but if you ignore human rights, you will not have inner peace and therefore you will not be able to contribute to international stability. so hear us, be as wise as your thousand-year existence allows you to be and obliges you to be. close these camps, let your people breathe and free ilham tohti.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, diplomacy is completely alien to philosophical speculations that claim that saying is doing. and the whole perplexity of the european union with regard to south america is summed up in this false track. the european union could and would like to have an independent policy of influence in latin america, it has the possibility of doing so through the influence acquired by member states firmly established in the region. spain, portugal and france could be the beacon of an international ambition that is not naive to the bolivarian incantations of the left in latin american countries, nor subject to the american ambition to rule the south of the continent by proxy. nicolas maduro's policy is not mine, but neither is the policy of us sanctions that impoverished the venezuelan people. the european union should have a different voice, one that is calm and does not indulge in either utilitarianism or collectivism. we are simply following the embargoes once again, adding our own to washington's. we cannot be in solidarity with juan guaidó, who has received all the praise of the atlanticists without representing anything of venezuelan hopes, nor can we give satisfaction to nicolas maduro, who is unable to fight against the emigration of his people. once again, europe is in the enchantment, and we are spectators.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, for more than two years now the ayatollahs' authoritarian rule has been challenged in the streets. three weeks ago, the government shut down the internet in an attempt to stem the spread of this protest. iran, located at the heart of the power and dominance games between china, russia and the united states. let us not forget that iran, as a balancing power against saudi arabia, has helped to bring peace to syria. we condemn, without appeal, the freedom-killing policy of the islamic regime and we obviously support the iranian people in their quest for freedom. but we also condemn the western diplomacy which, by turning a blind eye and trading with the sponsors of terrorism, qatar and saudi arabia, is aggravating the situation. the majority in this chamber likes to lecture the whole earth on morality. a resolution is not diplomacy. let us sweep our doors: here too, freedom of expression is often threatened. the european union is not legitimate to make an effective voice heard; it has lost all credibility in the middle east after the fiascoes in libya and syria. let the nations of europe, the only real actors in diplomacy, defend their interests and the peoples, choose their destiny.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what people would accept a doubling of the price of petrol without protesting? these protests in iran, we understand them. in france, motorists are harassed with the 80 km/h speed limit, the radar, the toll, the price of gasoline that is soaring. the iranian public order has been maintained only at the cost of a particularly authoritarian response from the state, a state from which we hope for changes: the end of the death penalty for apostasy from islam and the clarification of the role of the revolutionary guards, for example. however, what is our credit in iran today? the european external action service and french diplomacy are themselves very embarrassed by the role imposed on them in the so-called vienna agreements to bring about the unilateral withdrawal of the united states. the origin and wording of this resolution express a clear intention to continue to exert two forms of pressure on iran: the banishment of the international community and the continuation of sanctions. this strategy is not effective, because iranian society is particularly nationalistic. it does not tolerate the crude foreign campaigns that seek to force social changes in the country. let us re-establish a balanced relationship with iran before any new initiative.
mr president, we were talking about dozens of deaths at first, and it was already terrible. but provisional lists of names now list over 300 murders by bullets, the bullets of snipers. so this regime is afraid, this regime is afraid for its survival and panic, because it is as much challenged internally as rejected in its lebanese and iraqi protectorates. the iran of the mullahs is now more descending than ascending, but what is to be done beyond moral condemnation? we must propose, mr high representative, dear mr borrel. the eu's diplomats, and first and foremost those of the union, should present ideas on the definition of iranian and sunni zones of influence, the organisation of regional cooperation and the establishment of security guarantees. it will take time to make these proposals known, but it is precisely because it will take a lot that diplomacy must regain its rights, and that without wasting a minute.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, today 500 000 women in europe and 200 million worldwide are victims of female genital mutilation. their intimate life, their life as women is affected. they're the ones who have to live with the consequences. we must eliminate this scourge and do so by a common and pragmatic approach. first, by collecting and disseminating data. we need precise, comparable data and unquestionable figures to measure the evolution of this phenomenon, including in europe. we need to work together, putting in place preventive measures that involve and mobilise all stakeholders, including the communities concerned. we also need support measures, legal protection for all those affected. commissioner, we have all the means at our disposal today to solve this problem. i welcome the commission's commitment to publish, within the first 100 days of its mandate, a strategy that brings equality and tackles the problem of female genital mutilation. we also have the istanbul convention, which refers to female genital mutilation and which has not yet been ratified by seven member states. we europeans must be the voice of these women and their outrage. at the current rate, 68 million girls will be at risk of female genital mutilation between 2015 and 2030 if we do nothing. this is unacceptable, we can't let this happen. you have our full support in implementing this strategy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on a mission to nairobi with a delegation from parliament, i was shocked to hear many stories of women who have suffered genital mutilation in addition to forced marriages. fgm is an extreme form of discrimination and violence against women. circumcision is the cutting of the clitoris of young girls, or even children, with scissors or razor blades. these are acts of torture which are an affront to the dignity of women. the disturbing truth is that our countries have imported into our soil cultural and religious traditions that practice these barbaric acts. today, about 124,000 girls in france have been subjected to this barbaric practice and 21% of girls from countries that practice female genital mutilation are a population at risk. the european commission estimates that more than half a million women in europe have been mutilated, an alarming and intolerable figure. what kind of society are we becoming, when so many girls in our own country have to live in fear of being mutilated? at the last plenary session in strasbourg my group proposed an amendment on these acts of torture. we condemned this hideous practice, we called for clear measures to be taken, but unfortunately the text was rejected for political reasons. the list is there: 450 mps voted against. in some places, female genital mutilation may be based on tradition, but it is not our tradition. such beliefs have no place in our societies. in france, young girls who have been subjected to fgm stress that french legislation was not strong enough to counterbalance the weight of social pressure. it is therefore high time that our countries systematically prosecute perpetrators of female genital mutilation. i therefore urge member states to enforce mandatory reporting of genital mutilation by health and education professionals. let us put an end to this laxity, this lack of courage, and let us punish this barbarity with a heavy hand. i would remind you that europe is the continent of helen of troy, joan of arc and marie curie, women who are at the heart of our history and who define who we are. it is our duty to protect this europe, the cradle of women's rights, by constantly recalling these values of respect and freedom for all.
madam president, 500 000 women in the european union have been the victims of genital mutilation and every year 180 000 more are at risk of being subjected to it. these figures, taken from the european parliament's website, are accompanied by this comment: female genital mutilation is still practised in some countries in africa, asia and the middle east. in short, these monstrous practices are not european, and yet they are taking place on our continent. before we play the role of righting wrongs elsewhere, let's do the necessary work here. why have we come to this? as millions of people, we import all practices at the same time, even the most inhuman. as we accept anarchic immigration, we give a pass to violence. in france, for example, the number of female mutilations among adults rose from 62,000 in the 2000s to 124,355 at the beginning of this decade. what is true of fgm is equally true of violence against women. let's open our eyes! we cannot call ourselves feminists and applaud the arrival of thousands of migrants who, in some cases, despise and devalue women, sometimes to the point of abusing or raping them. europe could be proud that it has never destroyed the bodies of its daughters in the name of dark practices. but you prefer the politically correct acceptance of everything and everyone to this european pride: offering these women as fodder is the characteristic of the defeated. in the name of respect for women, let us restore european values to their status as victors.
president. - mr president, burkina faso is a secular country, which was the first west african country to establish the fraternal union of believers, chaired and co-chaired since 1972 by christians and muslims. so burkina faso has a long tradition of interfaith dialogue. unfortunately, since 2015, burkina faso, like all sahel countries, has been confronted with serious violence against civilians by jihadists and armed groups, who target all moderate religious communities, thus attacking the fundamental basis of this country based on dialogue and openness, and seeking to create zones of lawlessness in the sahel. the root causes of poverty in this area must be addressed, which are the weakness of the state, but also the corruption that is rampant in these regions. security must be guaranteed and we ask that the g5 sahel be able to continue and be strengthened in its actions for security. finally, we ask that urgent humanitarian aid be released to this region, because there are more than one and a half million people who are suffering from hunger in this region today. we will not achieve this by justifying the security issue alone. the question of hunger and humanitarian aid is of paramount importance.
author. - my fellow members of parliament! i am glad that today's resolution has helped us break through the wall of indifference in parliament to people who are suffering, including christians. as one of the initiators of today's resolution, i see it as a shared success that we have made it a matter beyond political parties to help people in need in burkina faso. for months, we've been hearing and reading about the growing terror in the country. international jihadist organizations have launched a manhunt against christians and the traditionally moderate muslim population. their purpose is clear. the destruction of inter-religious peace, the descent of society and the country into chaos. my own country, hungary, is once again looking for a solution on the ground. in recent days, azbej tristan, the state secretary for the hungary helps programme, has been discussing how to alleviate the refugee crisis in burkina faso despite the life-threatening security situation. the secretary of state reported that local christian churches are taking the lion's share of the nearly 600,000 internally displaced persons who are affected by the terror threat. a particularly valuable element of today's decision is that it recognizes the selfless work of faith-based charities. the european union is the largest donor to burkina faso's development. but that alone is not enough to solve the problem.
the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of europe, and it is not just the european parliament that is involved. so is burkina faso. there, muslims and christians have lived together in relative peace for a long time, until a few years ago, when deadly attacks and persecution began by groups affiliated with al qaeda and nusrat al-islam. the target is mainly christians and moderate muslims. almost every weekend, a church is attacked in the northern regions of burkina faso. schools are also being targeted. rectors and pastors are being expelled. many christians are fleeing. the need is great because of these attacks and the drought. large flows of refugees are the result. the eu must continue and intensify its assistance to this country and to the region as a whole. the attacks by extremists must be strongly condemned and countered wherever possible.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the situation in burkina faso has continued to deteriorate throughout this year and it is important that we look at this situation in a more holistic way rather than just focus on one group or one country. what should really concern us most is that the sahel region has become, as we’ve already heard, a new home for isis, which is benefiting from the insecurity of one of the poorest, least governed parts of the world. therefore, i ask the high representative for a strategy to be developed that addresses west africa. we need to support these countries, whose armed forces are under-resourced and their counter-insurgency strategies are lacking, to say the least. their conduct of executing suspects without trial only serves to inflame the conflict and drive more people into the hands of the militants. so my question is, what is being done by the european union to add our voice to the un’s calls for full investigation of abuses by the g5 joint forces and that we continue to address the challenges in human rights compliances by all the armies in that region.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr high representative, burkina faso is among the ten poorest countries in the world and has been experiencing unprecedented violence since 2015. in the first half of 2019 there have been over 300 terrorist attacks and armed jihadist terrorist groups have turned this area into a recruitment zone for youth and have focused their attacks this year on schools, mosques and churches. this situation has generated more than half a million displaced people who are also joining those displaced by the situation in mali. it means that in a country where more than four out of five people depend on agriculture for survival, the threshold for malnutrition is below the emergency threshold. that is why this region, the sahel, needs a counter-terrorism strategy, a strategy for peace and security, but burkina faso also needs emergency food aid and development aid today.
for the greens/efa group mr president, this resolution paints a difficult picture of burkina faso today. let me remind you, however, that dialogue is and remains a pillar in burkina faso. there is still national cohesion between peoples, ethnic groups and religions. in reality, we are facing a political and territorial crisis here. these crises are compounded by the consequences of global warming. burkina faso is fighting to ensure that extreme poverty is not a breeding ground for jihadism. our countries and europe have a major responsibility in this respect and our action is not understood by the people. we are emerging from a g5 that has failed again. a combination of weaknesses will never make a force, and it is urgent for france, europe and the rest of the international community to rethink the sahel strategy. it is time to take a frank and honest look at the situation and learn from our long history of failure. it is with the people that stability must be rebuilt.
mr president, the litany of terrorist attacks in burkina faso is overwhelming, and it has been going on for several years. it targets military personnel as well as civilians; it's hitting restaurants, markets, churches, schools. the reality is that the situation is only getting worse. it is time for the european union to better target its aid to build up a republican security force worthy of the name. we must continue to invest in training schools for the police, for the gendarmerie, for the army. the member states also need to overcome their reluctance and we need to be more present on the ground to support those we train. but we also need the burkinabe authorities to tell us how they want to recover their territory and with what support from us. support, in particular military support, but also for internal security forces, for the judiciary, for customs. we 're running out of time . we need a european strategy for the sahel, built with the sahelans. we have all the instruments to act and we are acting more than anyone, but we need to coordinate better to address this enormous security challenge in the sahel, a challenge that is first of all african, but also our own.
in writing. the clashes in the former upper volta region should be of deep concern to us. the country is directly affected by islamist radicalisation in the sahel and suffers from regular incursions by jihadist officers, including ethnic peuls, or from centuries-old clashes between opposing ethnic groups. contrary to what many now claim, the situation in the whole region would have worsened had it not been for the courageous intervention of the french armies. i would add that the current situation proves the lack of national cooperation between eu member states in the region, leaving the french army in isolation. i will of course support this text despite two dubious provisions: the first refuses to name the enemy, masking under religious clashes the continuing islamist raids on the animist and christian populations, and the second refers to the remarks made about the use of force by the burkinabe army, which is facing challenges far more dangerous than the comfortable moral lessons of our resolutions. i stand with the persecuted christians in burkina faso.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, for sure, there are, in our developed and affluent societies, cases of child abuse, and we could also discuss about the war in afghanistan, and why we western people have been there for almost 20 years. what were the causes? the consequences? we can talk about all that, we know. but today, what brings us here, in this specific case, is the part of the iceberg which is out of the water, because the data about child abuses in afghanistan are, unhappily, much, much, much, much bigger than one could compare with our societies. the data we have shows very clearly that the logar case is the part that you see from the iceberg. between 2015 and 2018, the united nation’s task force verified 40 000 grave violations against children throughout the country. 40 000! many of them were of serious concern. this represents 80% of the civilian casualties. 80% of the civilian casualties are children, and not withstanding monitoring and verification constraints, the recruitment and use of 274 children and the perpetration of sexual violence against many others, the abduction of 2013, 800 attacks on schools and hospitals – well, i will not continue. it’s clear that it’s not exactly the same problem as here. in afghanistan, in 2017 they wanted to revise the penal code, which entered into force in 2018, explicitly criminalising the so-called bacha bazi. but it’s very difficult to change the habits, the influence of powerful people. impunity is very widespread, and victims face stigma and exclusion from society. we have to do new fighting, because this child protection act had to be approved by a presidential decree, and later the lower house of the parliament refused it, arguing that they did not have a quorum to approve one article. and in december 2019, yesterday, there were still discussing it. the law on protection of child rights was rejected four times by the parliament in the last four years. it shows how strong the resistance is to change laws, and mainly habits, in a society which, unhappily, presents such kind of behaviour that we have to fight and we have to help to fight. we have to help to fight, trying to improve the rights of children in afghanistan. we are doing as much as we can and we will continue doing so, knowing that, at the end, to change a society is much more difficult – a longer-standing endeavour than just publishing a law in a paper. we have organised recently a public debate entitled ‘children of afghanistan – they deserve a better future’ that drew wide interest from officials and the general public. in addition, our annual rights dialogue between the european union and the afghan government systematically includes a chapter on the specific situation of children, where such matters as children in armed conflict, child marriage and violence against children are addressed. for sure, there are also cases of abuses inside the armed forces, and the eu addresses this matter in a systematic manner, paying attention to the minors recruited by the army and security forces and the behaviour of soldiers and policemen towards the civilian population. we have a police advisory project which includes a gender segment, which is also meant to benefit the young people. as you can see, this is a great problem. we are trying to help the afghan authorities and society to fight against it, and i think it’s very important that the european parliament echoes these events in order to fight against them.
author. – madam president, the soviet union was particularly oppressive and cruel towards independent journalists, many of them perishing. unfortunately, in putin’s russian federation we see that some steps taken by the state unfortunately resemble the old past. we still remember a fantastic person like anna politkovskaya, and very brave journalists willing to give independent, reliable information to russian society. unfortunately the ‘foreign agent’ act in its recent shape signed by vladimir putin on 2 december is a further step to intimidate individual and independent bloggers and journalists. we call in our resolution to repeal this law.
the author. madam president, i thank my colleagues for the excellent cooperation and constructive negotiations. we have a good joint text, focused on the problematic so-called foreign agent law. parliament's message on this case is clear. the law was passed in 2012, but new amendments were added last month. they extend the scope of the law to all those who publish or share content of foreign media, as well as receive funds coming from outside russia. whether it's russian nationals or not. the scope for independent work and independent media funding is further restricted. we strongly condemn this law as it restricts the freedom of speech and action of civil society and the media - the fundamental freedoms of the russian constitution. that's why we're asking for his withdrawal. russia is a signatory to the european convention on human rights and the universal declaration of human rights. we expect him to promote the values he subscribes to. i also believe that the future relations and cooperation of the european union with russia should be part of a comprehensive strategy, based above all on respect for international law.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it is unfortunate that we have to talk again about tightening the law in russia. not only ngos that receive financial support from abroad will be covered by this law in the future, but also individuals such as bloggers who have to put up with this dubious title of a foreign agent. anyone who reports on human rights violations, environmental crimes, corruption, is denounced as a foreign agent. i think the russian people deserve better. whoever is speaking these unpleasant truths is not a foreign agent, but is representing the real interests of the citizens against a small political and economic caste at the top, which is trying to propagate strength and nationalism to the outside, but which is enriching itself like no dynasty before in russian history behind a potemkin state façade behind which everything is possible. the russian state is trying to protect its citizens as it did in the days of the tsars or in the soviet union, and we should express our solidarity with the russian people by demanding the immediate repeal of this law.
the committee on the prevention of torture: foreign agents! the group maximum, which defends the rights of lgbti people: foreign agent! memorial - a foreign agent! the ecologists of bellona: agents of the foreign world! and now, individuals too, bloggers, journalists, intellectuals, ordinary citizens: all of them are agents of the foreigners! this is the model of society that vladimir putin is proposing. and this model, let us not be mistaken, inspires all authoritarian movements within the european union itself. so it's not just a diplomatic issue, it's also a clash of two worldviews. it is time, ladies and gentlemen, for us to be as consistent in our defence of democracy as vladimir putin is in his repeated attacks on democracy in russia and within the european union itself.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, i hope you are aware that this resolution condemns the united states almost at the same time. i would remind you that in 1938 the fara law, which in many respects resembles what is currently being passed in russia, already condemned foreign agents in the united states. at the very least, russia faces a number of international adversities that sometimes defy common sense. personally, i am appalled to see in the resolution a clear, reiterated desire to maintain all sanctions against russia, sanctions which are so harmful to our economy and which will not lead to anything. so, in parliament, you see russian agents everywhere. brexit: russians; trump: russians; the yellow vests: russians; the strikes on french trains: certainly russians too. as a measure of retaliation, we are banning territories, we are freezing assets, we are condemning. in fact, until 1981, france also had a law restricting the right of foreigners to form associations. the council of europe has just re-admitted russia. i think that is the way we should go, that is to say, by re-establishing dialogue. we're going the other way. we're going to a dead end.
the next item is the debate on the commission's statement on the us trade representative's notice: section 301 investigation on the digital tax (2019/2979 ((rsp)). i would also like to remind you before this debate that you can apply for the opportunity to speak spontaneously and to use the blue card both in the usual way and by means of the electronic system. instructions for use are available at the entrance to the chamber.
member of the commission. – mr president, in 2018 the commission made two proposals to ensure that digital companies pay their fair share of taxes. these are a short-term target, a solution on digital services taxation and a long—term comprehensive solution that adjusts the definition of permanent establishment in order to include digital presence as a basis of taxing rights for corporation tax. the european parliament supported the digital services tax proposals in its report, exactly a year ago, on 13 december 2018 and this proposal for an eu digital service tax was presented pending a comprehensive solution. it aims to address the increasing pressures that are faced by member states to act, given the risk that their corporate tax base is being eroded significantly over time and the perceived unfairness of the situation. the proposal can also accelerate discussions at the oecd level to find a global solution on taxation issues, including a global digital service tax. unfortunately, the council did not find agreement on the commission proposals at the beginning of 2019 and france and some other member states then proceeded to adopt or prepare national digital service taxes. the united states started a so—called section 301 investigation into the french digital service tax in july 2019. this is the first us investigation into a digital service tax, despite france being neither the first nor the only country that has adopted it. following this, president macron and president trump agreed on the margins of a g7 meeting in biarritz that france would continue levying the tax and would reimburse companies if subsequently there was a difference between the french tax and the oecd global solution. despite this agreement, the united states continued with its investigation with a negative determination on 2 december 2019, claiming that france’s digital service tax is unreasonable, discriminatory and burdens or restricts us commerce. this determination opens the route for unilateral measures under us law. the same rules have previously been used only in response to unfair trading practices in china’s non-market economy in order to justify us tariffs against china. the only acceptable route to address trade disputes is through the world trade organisation adjudication process and the united states committed itself internationally and domestically to using that route in the past. the commission therefore calls upon the us not to break its obligations under international law or under the multilateral trading system. president von der leyen made clear that the european union will act and react as one against any unilateral measures outside the multilateral trading system. the european union will collectively defend a member state if a trading partner takes unilateral trade measures against it. a fast conclusion of the update of the enforcement regulation by the council and parliament would send a strong signal that the european union is ready to protect itself and the multilateral trading system. so let me conclude by saying that it would be a matter of significant concern to the commission if the united states should decide to introduce tariffs against the european union, based on a unilateral determination of section 301b of the trade agreements act of 1974. it would be the first time that the united states has used this instrument against the european union since the world trade organisation was founded in 1995 and the united states statute envisages further discussions as an option instead of trade restrictive measures. so we in the commission will keep on pushing for these discussions.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, we are gathered for the last plenary debate of the year 2019. this debate reflects the situation we have been facing for several years in international trade. international trade, as we all know, is going through a period of great turbulence. the world has changed, with china's place being the digital one, but have the rules of international trade adapted? i don't think he is. however, i will always support, as you do, balanced and rules-based international trade. today we europeans are under pressure and donald trump is once again targeting us. we will remember that the latter first chose to tax european steel and aluminium, and has been doing so for almost two years now, and in an illegal way. the european union has responded, but with what effectiveness? since mid-october our european producers and farmers have been subject to additional customs duties of 25% imposed by the united states in the airbus/boeing case. once again, donald trump has decided to hit hard, with 6.8 billion euros in sanctions. as you recalled, on 2 december, and this is the subject of our exchange, the trump administration announced its intention to levy up to 100%, for the equivalent of $2.4 billion, on french products, in response to the introduction of a tax on digital services. this announcement is extremely concerning. at the initiative of the renew group and the renaissance delegation, this debate was added to the agenda of this session, ahead of the january deadline set by the americans. it is important to take stock of the issues at stake and i know, commissioner, that you share this concern. what does donald trump blame us for? the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the taxation of electronic communications services. i am writing this in error: this tax represents a fair contribution to be paid by digital companies. the european union is seeking to promote the emergence of an international solution within the framework of the oecd. discussions must continue to ensure that digital companies are taxed fairly and fair competition is guaranteed. in this offensive against the digital services tax, donald trump has targeted the jewels of the french economy: champagne, roquefort, butter, cosmetics, handbags. it hits where the bat hurts, because the united states - just one example among many - remains the largest market in value for french champagne. what is even more worrying is that while a few large french and european groups will be affected, it is above all our smes, small businesses and farmers who will be hit the hardest. these new taxes could be fatal to them. farmers and producers are once again paying the heavy price of trade and political tensions. in the event of sanctions, support measures will have to be taken. i would like to stress a number of points today. first, the need for dialogue: between two partners of major importance, dialogue must come first and we must put an end to this arms race. the european union has always shown itself open to discussion and we hope that the united states will listen to us. this escalation in trade tensions will, in the end, only lead to losers. a win-win solution must be found, because it is not only the producers but also the consumers on both sides of the atlantic who will suffer the adverse effects of the lack of a solution. another point is the need for unity: preserving solidarity between member states is part of our values. it is in unity that the european union was created; it's in our dna. and i thank you, commissioner hogan, for saying, once again today, that unity is our strength. finally, this debate is a reminder of the urgency we are facing, the need to strengthen our trade policy. it is our economy that is suffering from our lack of responsiveness. the european union is the world's leading global trading power; it's time to be more assertive and more offensive. in conclusion, and to return to this new announcement by the united states, the message i have for you today is clear: the escalation that is taking place is not a viable or reasonable solution; it must be stopped.
